Nominations committee Members During 2016, the nominations committee comprised The nominations committee is primarily the Chairman, Linda Adamany, Colin Day and Roy Franklin.
focused on evaluating the board of directors The quorum for the committee is two members.
There were and on examining the skills, characteristics six committee meetings held in the year.
and dynamics that are needed to run an Membership and attendance of the nominations effective board.
committee up to 31 December 2016 Meeting attendance Dear shareholder John Connolly Chairman 6 6 The Group continues to undergo transformational change and the nominations committee has played a key role over the Linda Adamany 4 6 last 12 months in ensuring your Company has the leadership Colin Day 5 6 it needs.
Roy Franklin 5 6 Most significantly, the committee led the search process that resulted in Jon Lewis appointment as Chief Executive Officer Meetings of the committee are usually called at short notice on 1 June 2016.
In recommending Jons appointment to the to consider matters as they arise.
This means that members board, we noted that he had the strategic vision, operational may not always be available, but they are always fully apprised skills and the values that your Company required, and that of matters to be discussed and their views sought and taken he was the outstanding candidate for the role.
Due to prior commitments, Linda Adamany was unable to attend two meetings called at short notice and Colin The committee believes that the board members have a strong Day and Roy Franklin were both unable to attend one meeting blend of skills, experience and length of service, as shown called at short notice due to prior commitments.
One of the committees key tasks is to ensure that the board remains appropriately balanced At its meeting on 5 December 2016, the board approved and to nominate new board members who will add valuable the terms of reference for the committee as remaining fit for knowledge to the boards deliberations.
With Neil Carson purpose and no changes were required.
The terms of reference retiring from the board at the end of 2016 and Kent Masters of the committee are available to review on amecfw.
indicating his intention to retire at the conclusion of the AGM in There have been no changes to the membership of the June 2017, the committee has determined that the board would committee in 2017. benefit from recruiting additional non-executive directors with relevant industry experience.
Key responsibilities The committee is mindful of the boards desire to maintain We were therefore pleased to recommend to the board an appropriately diverse and balanced membership, in terms the appointment of Bob Card, who joined the board on of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the 1 March 2017.
Bob has over 40 years experience in the Group, taking into account the benefits of diversity, so as to oversight, operations and management of infrastructure, ensure the delivery of the Groups strategy and performance.
power, mining and energy products, and we are delighted The committee regularly reviews the boards structure, size that he has joined us.
and composition against these criteria and the board selection criteria referred to on page 60.
Together with the board, the committee also considers board succession planning in conjunction with reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief People Officer on senior John Connolly management succession planning, so as to ensure that an Chairman of the nominations committee appropriate balance of skills is maintained both within the 25 April 2017 senior management team and on the board.
As part of the internally conducted board effectiveness review undertaken in 2016, the performance of the committee was also evaluated and this was overall rated highly.
As an area for further improvement, it was suggested that there be greater focus on succession planning which would improve the ability of the board to evaluate top management.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 59 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Leadership and effectiveness continued Nominations committee continued Activities of the committee Bob Card has over 40 years experience in the oversight, Following Samir Brikhos departure on 17 January 2016, operations and management of infrastructure, power, mining the Company appointed Ian McHoul as the interim CEO and energy projects and is the former CEO of SNC-Lavalin and appointed the executive search firm, Korn Ferry, to assist Group Inc. the Company in its search for a new Chief Executive Officer.
Zygos had previously worked with the Company in respect Both internal and external candidates were considered.
of its search for a new Chairman in 2011 and in respect of A role specification had been prepared to assist in distilling the process that led to Linda Adamanys appointment in 2012 a long list of both internal and external candidates.
Both and Roy Franklins appointment in 2016.
Other than this they internal and external candidates were interviewed by the have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board Chairman and Chief People Officer and the resulting shortlist or the Company.
of candidates was interviewed by all the board members.
After In June 2016, the committee reviewed the board selection careful consideration of both his academic and professional criteria and confirmed it remained appropriate to be used to background and the current needs of the Company, the identify any gaps in the overall experience and knowledge of committee recommended the appointment of Jon Lewis to the board as a whole and to assist appropriately in the future the board, and he joined the board on 1 June 2016.
Jon brings board selection process.
with him over 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry, In early 2017, the committee considered the reappointment including 20 years as a senior executive at Haliburton of Colin Day as a non-executive director for a second threeKorn Ferry has been appointed as one of the search partners year term of office as his first three-year term would end at of the Company and a global agreement has been put place the 2017 AGM.
On the basis of his significant relevant financial in respect of this appointment.
experience and his knowledge of running a business as CEO, In early 2016, the committee recommended Linda Adamany the committee recommended that he should be reappointed for a second three-year term.
be appointed as a non-executive director for a second three-year term of office on the basis of her significant relevant international experience and her knowledge of the activities of the Group.
The board approved the recommendation and her second three-year term will end at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
In September 2016, Neil Carson announced his intention to retire from the board at the end of 2016 and from his roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
After careful consideration, the committee concluded that Colin Day best met the required criteria to replace Neil as Senior Independent Director and Roy Franklin was appointed as the Chairman of the Remuneration and a member of the Audit Committee, both with effect from 31 December 2016.
In October 2016, the Company appointed the executive search firm, The Zygos Partnership Zygos to search for two new non-executive directors, with experience in the Oil, Gas and Chemicals industry, or the Mining sector, or who could bring diversity to the board in the form of geography and or gender.
Zygos identified a long list of quality candidates within the Oil, Gas and Chemicals industry from which the committee identified a shortlist of candidates.
Several of the members of the board interviewed the candidates and after due and careful consideration, due to his significant relevant experience, the committee recommended the appointment of Bob Card to the board with effect from 1 March 2017.
Bob was also appointed a member of the Audit and Health, Safety, Security, Environmental and Ethics committees.
Amec Foster Wheeler 60 Annual report and accounts 2016
