Leadership and effectiveness Our board of directors Our board members are selected to ensure and maintain an effective balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the areas in which Amec Foster Wheeler operates and in the duties and responsibilities associated with being a director of a listed company.
John Connolly Jon Lewis Chairman of the board, Chairman Chief Executive Officer of the nominations committee and Prior to joining Amec Foster a member of the remuneration Wheeler, Jon had been employed committee in a number of senior roles at A chartered accountant, John Halliburton Company Inc since spent his career until May 2011 1996 most recently as a Senior with global professional services Vice President and member of the firm Deloitte.
John joined the firm Halliburton Executive Committee, in 1980, serving in various roles of with responsibility, since 2014, increasing responsibility.
During his for leading its largest division, time at Deloitte, he held a wide range Completion & Production.
Prior of senior leadership positions in the roles included leadership of the United Kingdom and internationally.
Europe Sub-Saharan Africa Region He was Global Chairman between the largest operating region outside 2007 and 2011 and Global Managing North America and the Drilling and Director from 2003 to 2007.
was Senior Partner and CEO of the He joined Halliburton following nine UK Partnership from 1999 until his years in academia, where he was retirement from the Partnership NERC research fellow at the Royal in 2011.
School of Mines at Imperial College John is chairman of G4S plc and also in London and Conoco Lecturer in of a number of private companies.
Petroleum Geology at Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh.
Jon holds Beyond commercial business roles, a BSc in Geology from Kingston John is Chairman of the Board of University and a PhD in Geology Trustees of Great Ormond Street Sedimentology from the University Hospital Charity and a member of of Reading.
the CBI Presidents Advisory Council.
Term of office Term of office Jon was appointed Chief Executive John was appointed as non-executive Officer on 1 June 2016 and has no Chairman on 1 June 2011 and was fixed term of office.
His service considered to be independent on contract is terminable on six and appointment in accordance with twelve months notice by him and the requirements of the Code.
His term of office was extended in March 2015 for a second three-year term to the date of the 2018 AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 47 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Leadership and effectiveness continued Our board of directors continued Ian McHoul Linda Adamany Bob Card Colin Day Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director, Chairman Non-executive Director, member Senior Independent Director, Ian qualified as a Chartered of the health, safety, security, of the audit and health, safety, Chairman of the audit committee Accountant with KPMG in 1984. environmental and ethics HSSEE security, environmental and ethics and a member of the remuneration His early career was spent in the committee and a member of HSSEE committees and nominations committees brewing industry.
Between 1985 and the audit, remuneration and Bob has over 40 years of experience Colin has more than 25 years of 1995 he held various positions with nominations committees in the oversight, operations and experience of blue chip companies the Fosters Brewing Group, including Linda has over 40 years business management of infrastructure, power, including Aegis Group Plc, ABB General Manager, Strategy.
He was experience, with 27 in the oil & gas, mining and environmental Group, fide La Rue Group Plc and Finance & Strategy Director of the international energy sector.
Colin served as Chief Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited 1980 and 2007.
Linda held a number Bob was the President, Chief Executive Officer of Essentra from 1995 to 1998 and then served at of executive positions at BP plc Executive Officer and a board plc formerly Filtrona plc from Scottish & Newcastle plc from 1998 in the UK and US.
During that time, member of SNC-Lavalin Group, Inc. 1 April 2011 to 31 December 2016 to 2008, first as Finance Director she held various executive roles in Between 1975 and 2012 he spent and remained on the board until of Scottish Courage and later as refining and marketing, exploration his career at CH2M where he held the conclusion of Essentras annual Group Finance Director of Scottish and production and petrochemicals, a variety of executive management general meeting on 20 April 2017.
Ian holds a BSc including Chief Executive of BP positions, including almost 14 years Prior to Essentra, he was Chief in Mathematics from the University Shipping and Group Vice President as a member of its board.
While at Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser of Bristol.
and Commercial Director, BP CH2M, he also served as deputy Group plc from 2000 to 2011.
programme manager for the London Between 1995 and 2000, he served Term of office 2012 Olympics for the Delivery as Group Finance Director of Aegis Ian was appointed Chief Financial In March 2013, Linda was appointed Partner, CLM.
He was also the project Group plc.
He spent six years in a Officer on 8 September 2008 a non-executive director of Coeur manager for one of the worlds number of divisional finance director and served as interim CEO from Mining, Inc. a US-based publicly largest and most successful nuclear positions with ABB Group and 17 January 2016 to the appointment quoted primary silver producer, weapons plant remediation projects served as Group Finance Director of Jon Lewis on 1 June 2016.
Ian has where she serves as chairman of for the Rocky Flats site in Colorado.
of ABB Kent Instrumentation and no fixed term of office.
His service the audit committee and is a member ABB Kent plc from 1988 to 1994. contract is terminable on six and of the environmental, health, safety Bob was the Under Secretary Colin started his career in 1973 twelve months notice by him and and social responsibility committee.
of the U. S. Department of Energy as a trainee accountant at Kodak.
In March 2014, Linda was appointed between 2001 and 2004 responsible He is a Fellow of the Association of to the board of directors of Leucadia for all the Departments business External appointments Chartered Certified Accountants and National Corporation, a US-based, in Energy, Environment and Science.
Ian has been a non-executive director holds an MBA from Cranfield School NYSE-listed, diversified holding He has prior relationships with the of Britvic plc since March 2014 and of Management, UK.
company engaged through its Center for Strategic & International was a non-executive director of consolidated subsidiaries in a variety Studies CSIS and the Brookings Colin has been a director of FM Premier Foods plc from July 2004 of businesses, where she is a member Institution.
He holds a Masters Global since January 2014 and to April 2013. of the audit and the nominating and Degree in Environmental Engineering was appointed as a non-executive corporate governance committees.
from Stanford and completed the director and chairman of the audit From 2006 to 2012, prior to joining Executive PMD program at Harvard committee of Meggitt plc on 1 Amec Foster Wheeler, Linda was a Business School.
He is currently the October 2015.
He was previously non-executive director of National President of The Card Group, LLC, a non-executive director of WPP plc Grid plc and a member of their audit, an executive consultancy.
Colin was nominations and safety, environment appointed to the FRC Audit Advisory Term of office and health committees.
Bob was appointed a non-executive qualified accountant CPA with a director on 1 March 2017 for an initial Term of office BSc in Business Administration from term of three years, which will end Colin was appointed a non-executive John Carroll University, Ohio, and at the 2020 AGM.
director on 14 October 2010. has also undertaken post-graduate, His term of office was extended in non-degree executive programmes In accordance with the Companys January 2017 for a third three-year at Harvard, Cambridge and articles of association, Bob will retire term to the date of the 2020 AGM.
from office at the forthcoming AGM and offer himself for election.
Term of office Linda was appointed a non-executive director on 1 October 2012.
In January 2016, her term of office was extended for a second three-year term to the date of the 2019 AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler 48 Annual report and accounts 2016 Roy A Franklin Kent Masters Stephanie Newby We will continue to seek to Non-executive Director, Chairman Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director, member build upon and complement of the Remuneration Committee member of the health, safety, of the audit and health, safety, the boards existing skills and member of the audit and security, environmental and ethics security, environmental and ethics set, including a focus on nominations committees committee HSSEE HSSEE committees increased diversity, whether Roy has more than 40 years Kent was the Chief Executive Officer Stephanie is the Chief Executive this is through gender, experience as an executive in the of Foster Wheeler AG from 2011 until Officer of Crimson Hexagon, a big oil & gas industry.
He spent 18 years the completion of the acquisition data social media analytics company.
race, nationality, thought at BP, latterly as Head of M&A, BP by AMEC in November 2014.
Prior Prior to Crimson Hexagon she or general background.
Exploration, after which he was to joining Foster Wheeler, he served founded Golden Seeds in 2004, Group MD of Clyde Petroleum and as a member of the Executive Board an investment company that then CEO of Paladin Resources until of Linde AG, a world leading gases provides investment capital to Independence of non-executive its acquisition by Talisman Energy and engineering company, from early-stage, high-growth companies.
Since then Roy has served 2006 to 2011.
At Linde, Kent had Previously, she spent 20 years The board considers that, with on a number of international energy responsibility for the Americas, working in the financial services the exception of Kent Masters, boards in non-executive roles, and Africa, the South Pacific, the global industry in Sydney, London and New whose previous employment until recently, was chairman of business unit Healthcare, and York, with the majority of her career by Foster Wheeler precludes Keller Group plc.
the business area Merchant and spent with J. P. Morgan, where she him from meeting the required Packaged Gases.
He was employed headed several global businesses independence criteria, the nonRoy is currently deputy chairman by BOC Group plc from 1984 until the serving as Global Head of Futures executive directors are independent of Statoil ASA and a non-executive acquisition of BOC by Linde in 2006. and Options, Head of International and free from any relationships or director of Santos Ltd.
He is also Kent served in roles of increasing Private Banking, Chief Operating circumstances that could affect currently chairman of  at BOC, including Officer of Global Equities and Head their independent judgement.
owned Cuadrilla Resources Holdings as Chief Executive, Industrial and of eCommerce.
Ltd, and a member of the advisory Special Products, from 2005 to board of Kerogen Capital LLC.
Appointed in 2004, Stephanie 2006, and as President, Process Gas Roy holds BSc in Geology from was a member of the Foster Wheeler Solutions-Americas from 2002 to the University of Southampton.
AG board until the completion of 2005.
He also served on the board of the acquisition by AMEC, serving Term of office directors of BOC from 2005 to 2006. on the audit and governance and Roy was appointed a non-executive Kent served as the non-executive nominating committees.
She also director on 1 January 2016 for an chairman of African Oxygen Limited previously served as a non-executive initial term of three years, which will from 2005 to 2011. director and member of the audit and end at the 2019 AGM.
Kent joined the board of Albemarle in compensation and HR committees January 2015 following its acquisition of RiskMetrics Group, Inc. Stephanie of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. where also holds a BA in English Literature he had served as a director since from the University of Sydney.
Kent is a member of the Term of office compensation committee at Stephanie was appointed a nonAlbemarle and served on the audit executive director on 13 November and compensation committees 2014 for an initial term of three years, at Rockwood.
Term of office Kent was appointed a non-executive director on 13 February 2015.
He will be retiring from the board at the close of the 2017 AGM having served over two years as a nonexecutive director.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 49 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
