Engagement Relations with shareholders The executive directors undertake an extensive programme The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly of meetings with institutional shareholders during each year.
communicate the Groups progress and engage with Our results presentations and investor education events are shareholders.
Where possible, the entire board will attend recorded and remain available on our website at amecfw.
com the AGM and will be available to answer questions from those investors for those unable to participate on the day.
The board encourages all shareholders to attend and participate where possible.
Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director offer to meet with all major shareholders.
Since the publication of the At last years AGM a number of interesting questions were previous annual report, 11 such meetings have taken place.
raised and all of the proposed resolutions passed by way of a poll vote.
The percentage of the Companys share capital voted Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with members in favour of each resolution ranged from 86.53% to 99.98%.
of the board are facilitated by the investor relations team.
In line with the requirements of the Code, if significant dissent The board also receives unedited feedback reports following against a resolution was experienced the board would engage shareholder meetings and all material brokers research notes, with shareholders to understand the reasons behind the vote.
together with a report at each meeting including benchmark data within our peer group.
Find out more online During 2016 we appointed Taylor Rafferty, an independent Visit our website at amecfw.
com investors for further information regarding service provider, to conduct an investor survey and provide this years AGM.
advice on dealing with potential investors.
This information is used to help target potential new shareholders and improve the efficiency and quality of our investor communications.
Our 2017 AGM will be held at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England on 2 June 2017 at 11.00 a. m. The notice of meeting, which includes explanatory notes on the business to be transacted at the meeting, will be available on our website on 3 May 2017.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to receive the annual report and accounts: to approve the remuneration report: to re-elect each of the current directors who will retire in accordance with the provisions of the Code: to elect Jon Lewis and Bob Card as directors: to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor: and to authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general authority of the directors to allot shares in the Company and to allot such shares without the application of statutory pre-emption rights.
In addition, shareholders will be requested to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares within prescribed limits and approve the resolution, to be repeated at each AGM going forward, to authorise the calling of general meetings, other than annual general meetings, on 14 clear days notice.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 89 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
