Board meetings The board holds a minimum of six regular meetings throughout In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain items the year, scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable.
are considered at every scheduled board meeting.
The Chief Additional board meetings and telephone conference calls are Executive Officer provides a report on business performance, held as required to deal with specific issues.
In 2016 there were strategy execution and emerging issues and the Chief Financial 7 scheduled meetings and 6 unscheduled meetings.
Officer updates the board on financial results and progress against the short-range plan.
Reports are also received on Directors are expected to attend all scheduled board and investor relations and market issues, HR and HSSEE matters.
relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from In addition, the Chairman and the Chief General Counsel and doing so by unavoidable prior business commitments or other Company Secretary provide an update on legislative, regulatory valid reasons.
All directors are provided with full papers in and governance matters and twice yearly the Chief General advance of each meeting.
Where a director is unable to attend Counsel and Company Secretary provides updates on material a meeting, they are encouraged to discuss any issues arising claims and disputes.
with the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer as appropriate.
Senior management is regularly invited to present at board Number of meetings attended meetings and, led by the business line presidents, provides deep dive reviews of each business line.
In addition to standing Scheduled Unscheduled items discussed at each meeting, the board considers a John Connolly 7 7 6 6 regular schedule of financial and planning matters including Samir Brikho until 18 January 2016 0 0 1 1 the approval of financial results and dividends: special matters including the review and approval of strategy: the determination Jon Lewis from 1 June 2016 4 4 1 1 of major risks and risk appetite and transaction and competitor Ian McHoul 7 7 6 6 reviews.
The board receives an annual presentation from the Chief People Officer on senior management succession Linda Adamany 7 7 5 6 planning and management development.
In August 2016, Neil Carson 5 7 5 6 a discussion took place on the strategy for the development Colin Day 6 7 5 6 of talent and performance and an update on succession planning but a fuller review has been deferred to 2017 due to the new Kent Masters 7 7 6 6 organisation structure and reconfiguration of the senior Stephanie Newby 7 7 6 6 leadership team.
The board has also identified a range of topic reviews that are addressed annually and these include the Roy Franklin 7 7 5 6 strategies followed by the corporate functions eg Tax, Treasury and IT, as well as the board effectiveness and Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year composition reviews.
to consider such matters as trading updates and director appointments.
As these were not scheduled, members were The board also holds a separate additional meeting each year not always able to attend but were provided with full packs to perform a full strategic review of the Group.
On account of information and were invited to make comments.
of the overseas visit being postponed until October 2016, the strategy event was held at the same time in Kuwait.
At least one scheduled meeting each year takes place away During this meeting, the new organisational structure and from Amec Foster Wheelers head office in London.
This strategy was presented and discussed, which is designed provides the board with an opportunity to understand more to bring us closer to our customers, improve the consistency about Amec Foster Wheelers business and to meet employees of project delivery and sustainably reduce our overhead costs, based locally.
The October 2016 board meeting and board thus offering long term opportunities to offset the current strategy discussions took place in Kuwait, where the board headwinds in areas such as offshore greenfield oil and gas met with local management and also visited a client clean and mineable oil sands.
The Company Secretary is fundamental in ensuring the efficiency and effectiveness of the board and its committees and is responsible for ensuring that the directors have timely access to full, accurate and relevant information and whatever resources they need to undertake their duties.
Agendas and supporting papers for board and committee meetings are circulated approximately one week prior to the meeting date to allow sufficient time for review and enable informed debate and challenge at meetings.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 55 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
