Remuneration Remuneration committee Since Jon Lewis was appointed, the committee have been working with him to establish strategic performance measures The remuneration committees aim is to operate which are aligned with the strategy for the business that he a reward policy that promotes the future success has developed.
The metrics against which performance will be of the business.
assessed for 2016 and 2017 LTIP awards relate to the following areas of the strategy: Dear shareholder X Operational discipline I am pleased to introduce my first Directors Remuneration X Competitiveness Report as Chairman of the committee having taken over the role from Neil Carson on 1 January 2017.
X Balance sheet efficiency Board changes X Our people and culture 2016 has been a year of change for Amec Foster Wheeler.
The committee believes that delivering in these areas is critical Jon Lewis was appointed as the new Chief Executive Officer on to the long-term success of the business.
Further details of the 1 June 2016.
His incentive measures are provided on page 75. opportunities are in-line with our policy and the arrangements for the previous Chief Executive Officer.
As we previously The arrangements described above will be operated under the announced on his appointment an award was made to Jon existing Directors Remuneration Policy.
The policy is not due Lewis to compensate him for remuneration foregone on leaving for renewal until our AGM in 2018. his previous employer which was structured broadly on a like Conclusion for like basis.
Further details are provided on page 78.
The committee believes that the overall approach to the Remuneration for 2016 remuneration of the Executive Directors is appropriate to the The stretching performance targets set for the annual bonus circumstances of the business.
We look forward to receiving have not been met and therefore no bonus will be paid to your support in the vote on the annual remuneration report executive directors in respect of 2016.
EPS targets set for at our AGM.
the LTIP awards made in 2014 under the Performance Share Plan were not met and TSR performance was below median.
No portion of this award therefore vested.
Remuneration arrangements for 2017 There are no changes to the annual STIP and LTIP opportunities for the year.
Base salaries were reviewed with Roy Franklin effect from 1 April 2017.
There will be no increase in salary Chairman of the remuneration committee for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
25 April 2017 In light of the offer from John Wood Group the committee approved some changes to the annual bonus measures for 2017 to simplify the structure and focus management on key business imperatives for 2017.
The performance measures for the 2017 bonus will be EBITA 50% and Other Key Financial and Operational objectives 50%.
Further details are provided on page 74.
In line with our past practice, the actual targets and outcomes will be disclosed after the end of the year.
As set out in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report, for 2016 LTIP awards we introduced a third performance measure relating to the implementation and execution of our strategy.
The measure accounted for 40% of the award, with EPS growth and relative TSR performance each being weighted at 30%.
We intend to keep the same performance measures and weightings for 2017 awards.
Amec Foster Wheeler 72 Annual report and accounts 2016 Membership and attendance of the remuneration The committee is also supported by the Companys human committee up to 31 December 2016 resources department who may from time to time use third parties to provide data and technical advice.
Scheduled Unscheduled The committee normally meets three times a year and Neil Carson Chairman 3 3 1 2 has an established annual agenda of items that it considers Linda Adamany 3 3 2 2 at the various meetings, the major elements of which are summarised below: John Connolly 3 3 2 2 Colin Day 3 3 1 2 March X Confirmation of short and long-term incentive outcomes.
The quorum for the committee is two members.
There were three scheduled and two unscheduled meetings held in 2016.
X Approval of Directors remuneration report.
The first unscheduled meeting was called to discuss and agree X New long-term incentive awards.
the terms of Samir Brikhos termination of employment: the second was held in respect of the appointment of Jon Lewis X Review of individual base salaries as Chief Executive Officer.
Neil Carson and Colin Day were and total remuneration.
each unable to attend one unscheduled meeting due to August X Shareholder feedback consultation.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and other members of management attend meetings by invitation X Committee processes and appointment but not when their own remuneration is being discussed.
Neil Carson continued to chair the committee in 2016 until December X Incentive plan targets.
his resignation from the board on 31 December 2016, after being appointed Chairman of the committee in May 2015.
Roy Franklin was appointed as Chairman of the committee from 1 January 2017.
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee takes account of recommendations from the Chairman in respect of the Chief Executive Officer and from the Chief Executive Officer in respect of the other executive directors and designated executives.
The committee is independently advised by Deloitte.
Deloitte were appointed by the committee following a competitive tender in 2015.
During the year Deloitte also provided advice to management in relation to market practice relating to various aspects of remuneration and the interpretation of the Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
Separate teams within Deloitte provided unrelated advisory services in respect of business model integration, research, development and innovation taxation, treasury taxation, corporate finance and treasury services to the Group during the year.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this Code in its dealings with the committee.
The committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
The committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
The committee is therefore satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte is objective and independent.
Deloitte was paid 29,280 during the year for the advice provided to the committee on the basis of time expended and seniority of individuals providing the advice.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 73 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
