Leadership and effectiveness continued Board composition As at 31 December 2016, the board comprised the non-executive Membership of the board 6 chairman: two executive directors the Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Chairman 1 and the Chief Financial Officer : and six non-executive directors.
Executive director Non-executive director On 1 January 2016, Roy Franklin was appointed as a nonexecutive director of the Company.
The Company announced on 18 January 2016 that Samir Brikho had stepped down as Chief Executive Officer.
Ian McHoul fulfilled the role of 2 interim CEO, alongside his role as Chief Financial Officer, until the appointment of Jon Lewis as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2016.
On 31 December 2016, Neil Carson stepped down as a non-executive director of the Company.
On 1 March 2017, Bob Card was appointed as a non-executive Experience of the board 9 director of the Company.
Kent Masters will be retiring from the Financial management board as a non-executive director at the close of the 2017 AGM.
and corporate finance 8 Corporate governance 7 International experience Directors tenure as at 31 December 2016 Experience in business sectors John Connolly 5yrs 7m relevant to Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE Jon Lewis 7m 9 Strategy 7 8yrs 3m Ian McHoul Number of board directors 9 with experience in each topic 4yrs 3m Linda Adamany Neil Carson 6yrs 3m As part of the Companys broader diversity initiative, it Colin Day 6yrs 2m supports the recommendations of the final report in the Davies Review series.
For a short period of time, 22% of our Roy Franklin 1yr board will be female until Kent Masters retires from the board 1yr 10m Kent Masters at the close of the 2017 AGM, after which, 25% of our board 2yr 1m Stephanie Newby will again be female.
The board will take into consideration 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 the recommendation of the Hampton-Alexander Review, that FTSE 350 companies should aim to build the representation Details of the directors, including their biographies, other of women on their boards to 33% by 2020, when considering significant commitments and committee memberships can future candidates for board appointments.
Candidates for board be found on pages 47 to 49.
Details of the directors service appointments are evaluated on merit in light of the requirements contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in of the role, having due regard to the Group-wide commitment the remuneration report on pages 72 to 88. to diversity and inclusion.
The board recognises the importance of diversity, including but not limited to gender balance across The Companys articles of association require all directors to the Group more generally.
In recognition of this, Amec Foster seek election by shareholders at the AGM following their initial Wheeler won the Diversity and Inclusiveness Award at the Oil appointment and re-election every three years thereafter.
In June 2016 we celebrated our first However, in line with the recommendations of the Code, our global diversity and inclusion week which focused on thinking practice is that all directors submit themselves for re-election differently, together and provided our employees with the on an annual basis.
All of the directors wishing to continue opportunity to question and challenge themselves and others, serving, and considered eligible by the board, will offer to share their views, and to listen to the ideas and thoughts of themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
others on the importance of diversity and inclusion on a global The independence of the non-executive directors is continually scale.
During the year, we also saw the launch of our second monitored and formally assessed as part of the boards series on women in leadership which was an initiative driven to annual evaluation process.
The board considers that, with provide support and empower young women across the business the exception of Kent Masters, whose previous employment to take ownership of their careers.
The gender diversity of the by Foster Wheeler precludes him from meeting the required Company and its senior management is shown on page 25. independence criteria, the non-executive directors are independent and free from any relationships or circumstances Gender diversity of the board that could affect their independent judgement.
78 % The balance of executive and non-executive directors provides Female Male continuity on the board while ensuring no one individual, or 22 group of individuals, dominates the decision-making process.
The varied backgrounds and commercial experience of the nonexecutive directors, and their independence from management, ensures rigorous debate at meetings and constructive challenge and oversight of the executive directors in relation to the strategic direction and performance of the Group.
Amec Foster Wheeler 52 Annual report and accounts 2016
