Management committees These are chaired by executive directors or other senior individuals and members are drawn from senior management The board has also created a number of within the Group.
The minutes of each of these meetings are management committees and groups that deal circulated to each board meeting.
generally with more operational matters.
Committee Members Responsibilities Corporate Chief Executive Officer chairman : The corporate transactions committee considers mergers, acquisitions and transactions Chief Financial Officer: Chief General Counsel disposals and approves transactions where the consideration or assumption committee and Company Secretary: Head of Mergers of liabilities, as appropriate, is 5m or less, and above this level it submits and Acquisitions.
recommendations to the board for approval.
In addition it determines transaction guidelines that are in line with Group policies and procedures.
Disclosure Group Financial Controller chairman : The disclosure committee assists the audit committee with regard to committee Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary: verifying the information that is required to be disclosed in the Companys Head of Risk Management and Insurance: Head material public disclosures and in its periodic reports.
This is intended of Group Assurance: Director of Tax and Treasury: to ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant laws, rules Director of Communications: Chief Corporate and regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock Development Officer.
Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange and the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Inside information Chief Executive Officer chairman : Chief The inside information disclosure committee assists the Company in its disclosure Financial Officer: Chief General Counsel obligations to manage the process of the identification and treatment of committee and Company Secretary: Chief Corporate inside information, including accurate and timely disclosure in accordance Development Officer.
with the Companys legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The Committee also overseas the management of the Companys insider lists.
HSSE review Chief Executive Officer chairman : The HSSE review committees key responsibility is to provide effective committee Executive Committee.
oversight of the Companys performance and management of HSSE issues across the Group.
This includes the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups policies and management systems in respect of managing health, safety, security and environmental risk in both current and future operations.
Pensions and Chief Financial Officer chairman : Chief General The pensions and retirement benefits committee reviews and recommends retirement benefits Counsel and Company Secretary: Chief People the establishment of any new or replacement pension arrangements, any committee Officer: Head of Group Pensions.
material amendments to existing pension schemes, and the discontinuance, winding up or merger of any existing arrangement.
It also agrees with the trustees of those pension arrangements appropriate funding plans to secure the benefits promised.
Risk committee Chief Executive Officer chairman : Chief The risk committee performs an integral role in the governance of risk Financial Officer: Chief General Counsel and within Amec Foster Wheeler by providing advice and assistance to the board Company Secretary: Company Commercial enabling it to fulfil its responsibilities in determining the risk appetite of the Director: Head of Risk Management Group and the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control and Insurance.
It also reviews the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and the potential impact of any issues on the risk appetite and the risk profile of the Group.
It reports on key risk issues such as new business and geographical locations and also makes recommendations on the insurance programme for the Group.
Share allotment Any two directors or a director and the Chief The share allotment committee approves the allotment of new shares or committee General Counsel and Company Secretary or the issue of existing shares held in treasury following the exercise of options the Deputy Company Secretary the chairman under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
to be appointed from those directors present.
Tender review Chief Executive Officer chairman : Chief The tender review committee primarily reviews and approves proposed committee Financial Officer: Chief General Counsel and tender submissions for contracts to be undertaken by the business lines that Company Secretary: Head of Risk Management are outside the delegated authority of the business line presidents.
Higher and Insurance: Company Commercial Director.
risk contracts with an estimated revenue in excess of US$750m also require the approval of the board.
Transformation Executive Committee the chairman being To set the ambition and then maximise the value achieved from the steering committee either the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief transformation programme in each of the workstreams and across the Transformation Officer Company operations and functions.
Workstreams range from: strategy, organisational design, operating model, driving competitiveness, business development, through to back office systems and global business services.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 63 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
