Directors report Directors indemnity arrangements The Company maintains directors and officers liability Our directors present their annual report and insurance cover.
In addition, throughout the financial year the audited accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler and at the date of this report, qualifying third-party indemnity plc the Company and its subsidiaries together provisions within the meaning of Sections 232234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in place for all of the directors referred to as the Group for the year ended and the Company Secretary.
In addition, throughout the financial year and at the date of this report, certain employees serving as directors of certain eligible Achievements in 2016 and priorities for 2017 subsidiaries at the Groups request have also received direct Disclosures relating to particulars of important events affecting qualifying third-party indemnity provisions within the meaning the Group that have occurred since the last financial year, an of Sections 232-234 of the Companies Act 2006 in relation indication of likely future developments in the business of the to such directorships.
Group and research and development activities can be found in the strategic report on pages 1 to 45.
Directors interests None of the directors is, or was, materially interested in any Dividends contract of significance to Amec Foster Wheelers businesses The board has decided to suspend dividend payments, during, or at the end of, the financial year.
Details of directors including the final dividend for the year ended 31 December share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are 2016, until the Company is generating sustainable free cash shown in the remuneration report on pages 79 to 80. flow.
An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 7.4 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2017.
Further Corporate governance statement information on the payment of dividends to shareholders and The Companys statement on corporate governance is set the holders of American Depositary Shares ADSs can be out on pages 46 to 93 and is incorporated into this report found on pages 197 to 198. by reference.
Dividends paid during 2016 comprised an interim dividend Share capital of 14.8 pence per share and a final dividend of 14.2 pence per The primary market for Amec Foster Wheelers ordinary shares share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015. is the London Stock Exchange, where we have a premium listing and our shares are admitted to the main market.
The Companys Changes to the board of directors shares are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Details of the directors of the Company as at the date of and are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares this report, together with brief biographical details and board ADS.
Further information on the Companys ADS programme committee memberships, are set out on pages 47 to 49. can be found on pages 197 to 198.
Changes to the board since 1 January 2016: The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2016 comprised a single class of ordinary share.
The rights Samir Brikho Chief Executive Stepped down and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in full in Officer as Chief Executive the articles of association of the Company and are described 17 January 2016 on pages 200 to 203.
In summary, each share carries the right Roy Franklin Non-executive Appointed to one vote at general meetings of the company and no right director 1 January 2016 to a fixed income.
There are no restrictions on voting rights.
Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital Jon Lewis Chief Executive Appointed during the year are set out in note 22 on pages 155 to 157.
Officer 1 June 2016 Authority was granted to the directors at the 2016 AGM Neil Carson Non-executive Retired to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert director 31 December 2016 any security to shares up to a nominal amount of 64,345,628 Bob Card Non-executive Appointed Section 551 amount of which up to 19,498,675 could be director 1 March 2017 allotted for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive offer Section 561 amount.
Effective immediately upon Mr Brikhos departure, Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM Mr McHoul was appointed to the role of interim CEO, which he discharged alongside his role as Chief Financial Officer until to extend this authority to the end of the AGM in 2018 or 2 June 2018, whichever is earlier.
The revised Section 551 the appointment of Jon Lewis as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2016.
Kent Masters will not be standing for re-election amount will be 64,345,628 and the revised Section 561 amount will be 19,498,675.
The directors have no present at the forthcoming AGM and has indicated his intention to retire from the board at the conclusion of the AGM.
intention of issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of share options.
No issue will be made that will effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders at a General Meeting.
Amec Foster Wheeler 90 Annual report and accounts 2016 Since the completion of the 400m share buy-back programme Significant arrangements change of control in February 2013, the Company has not made any purchases The following significant agreements contain provisions of its shares in the market.
At the 2016 AGM, authority was entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other granted to the directors to make market purchases of up rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: to 38,997,350 of the Companys shares.
A resolution will be Under the 1,700m threeand five-year term loan and five year proposed at the 2017 AGM to extend the authority of the multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement as amended directors to make market purchases of up to 10% of the dated 1 March 2016 between, amongst others, the Company Companys shares within prescribed limits.
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited For further information on the above resolutions relating to as facility agent, the Company must promptly notify the the Companys share capital, please refer to the notice of annual facility agent if it becomes aware of any change of control.
general meeting 2017, which includes explanatory notes on the Following such notice the lenders under the relevant business to be transacted at the meeting.
agreement are required to negotiate with the Company for a Major interests in shares period of 30 days with a view to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to the Company and all the relevant lenders for On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 and other notifications received continuing the relevant facilities.
If agreement is not reached by the relevant parties before the end of the 30-day period, by Amec Foster Wheeler plc from shareholders, shareholdings of 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at if a lender so requires, the relevant facility agent must, by 31 December 2016 were as follows: notice of not less than 30 days to the Company, cancel the commitments of that lender under the relevant agreement and declare the participations of that lender in all outstanding Number % loans under that agreement together with accrued interest Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 38,857,338 9.96 and all other amounts accrued under that agreement to be Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 20,253,855 5.28 immediately due and payable.
If the Company is subject to a change of control by one or more persons who are listed as BlackRock, Inc 19,538,928 5.01 having been the subject of a sanctions designation, then the banks do not need to fund any new debt drawdowns and their The shareholding percentages reflect the Companys issued commitments can be cancelled within a 14 day period.
share capital at the time of the notification.
Since 31 December 2016, pursuant to DTR 5, the following notifications were The service contracts of a small number of senior executives received by the Company: previously employed by Foster Wheeler provide for enhanced severance payments to be made in the event that their X Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC notified their interest employment is terminated involuntarily and not for cause in 10.03% of the voting rights on 9 February 2017 and that within the first two years of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
their interest had fallen to 9.97% of the voting rights on These provisions ceased to apply from November 2016.
Additionally, a number of employees who are not directors X BlackRock, Inc. notified that their interest had fallen below are entitled to a payment if there is a change of control of 5% of the voting rights on 27 February 2017, that their interest the Company, arising from an approach during 2017. reached 5.02% of the voting rights on 6 March 2017 and that their interest had fallen below 5% of the voting rights on Depending on the nature of the transaction, entitlements 20 March 2017. under the Companys share plans may be triggered by a change of control.
Further detail can be found in the directors X Artisan Partners Limited Partnership notified their interest remuneration report.
in 10.2% of the voting rights on 23 March 2017.
Under the lease agreement dated 16 August 2002 between There were no other notifications received under DTR 5 Energy NJ QRS 15-10, Inc. as landlord and Foster Wheeler from the above shareholders between 31 December 2016 and Realty Services, Inc. as tenant in relation to certain premises 10 April 2017.
There are no shareholdings that carry special in Perryville, Clinton, New Jersey, as subsequently amended, rights relating to control of the Company.
an event of default will occur if any Obligor as defined under Financial instruments the credit agreement referred to above enters into any Disclosures relating to the Groups use of financial instruments amalgamation or merger, subject to certain carve-outs.
can be found in note 19 on pages 146 to 150 and are incorporated Where an event of default arises under the lease agreement into this report by reference.
as amended, the landlord may exercise certain remedies Branches and collect damages.
These remedies include, amongst other As a global group, our interests and activities are held or things, terminating the lease, re-letting the leased premises, operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements requiring the tenant to make an irrevocable offer to terminate or associates established in, and subject to the laws and the lease agreement as amended upon payment to the regulations of, numerous different jurisdictions.
landlord of an amount to be calculated in accordance with the lease agreement as amended.
Details of the Companys related undertakings can be found on pages 212 to 221.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 91 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Directors report continued Political donations In addition, a small number of contracts and agreements entered into by Group companies in the ordinary course of During 2016, Amec Foster Wheeler made no political donations.
business contain provisions under which the approval of Going concern the counterparty would be required in respect of a change The directors, having negotiated an amendment to the leverage of control.
In the absence of such approval the contracts ratio in the leverage covenant for measurement periods up to could be terminated by the counterparties.
Alternatively, and including 30 June 2018, have a reasonable expectation a small number of contracts and agreements entered into by that the Company and the Group will comply with this covenant Group companies in the ordinary course of business contain and will be able to operate within the level of available facilities provisions under which the counterparty could terminate the and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe contract following a change of control.
Such contracts are that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a however not considered to be material with respect to the going concern basis.
Further details of this review can be found results of the Group as a whole.
A change of control occurs if any person or group of persons Viability statement acting in concert gains control of the Company.
The directors viability statement and accompanying basis Employees of assessment can be found on page 32.
Our employees embody our knowledge, brand and reputation Auditor and it is through their activities, day by day, that we deliver on A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment our business objectives and commitments to shareholders, of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
clients and the wider community.
Information on employee development and training: how we engage with our employees Disclosure of information to auditor to ensure they understand the direction in which the Company The directors who held office at the date of approval of this is going and are committed to Amec Foster Wheelers values: directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, the actions taken to share knowledge with our employees and there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys keep them informed of developments: how we assess and auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken all the steps act on employee opinion and encourage involvement in the that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves Companys performance: and our commitment to diversity and aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that inclusion, and equal opportunities, can be found on page 25 and the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
is incorporated in this report by reference.
As can be seen in our The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418 Code of Business Conduct, Amec Foster Wheeler is committed of the Companies Act 2006. to providing a workplace which offers equal opportunity for promotion and advancement.
The Code of Business Conduct Responsibility statements is kept under review and updated as required to ensure it The statement of directors responsibilities, including continues to meet the needs of the wider Group.
the fair, balanced and understandable statement, in respect of the annual report and accounts can be found on page 93.
As part of the Companys equal opportunities policy, The statement by the Companys auditor relating to their procedures are in place that are designed to provide for full reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 94 to 101. and fair consideration and selection of disabled applicants, to ensure they are properly trained to perform safely and On behalf of the board effectively and to provide career opportunities that allow them to fulfil their potential.
Where an employee becomes disabled in the course of their employment, Amec Foster Wheeler will actively seek to retain them wherever possible Alison Yapp by making adjustments to their work content and environment Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary or by retraining them to undertake new roles.
25 April 2017 Sustainability Summary details about our commitment to sustainability and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set out specifically on page 33 and in general throughout our strategic report.
Further detail is available in our sustainability report and on our website.
Greenhouse gas emissions Disclosures relating to the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 strategic report and directors report Regulations 2013, can be found in the strategic report on page 33.
Amec Foster Wheeler 92 Annual report and accounts 2016
