Our Executive committee Distinct from the executive directors shown on pages 47 to 49, the Executive Committee comprises the following senior operational and functional management: Eddie Aaron Rod Carr President, Power & Process Chief Information Officer Appointed to this position in January 2017, Eddie previously held the role Rod was appointed Chief Information Officer on 2 August 2016.
Immediately of Vice President of Business Acquisitions for the Power & Process Americas prior to that he was Group Chief Information Officer for Centrica Energy.
Eddie joined Amec Foster Wheeler in 2008 as Vice President of He joined Centrica in 2010 from Scotia Gas Networks plc, where he was Construction.
In this role, he was responsible for the construction groups IT Director a role he also performed at AEP Energy Services between P&L performance and safe execution of EPC engineering, procurement, 2002 and 2003.
Rod is also a former managing consultant with PA construction projects.
Eddie has more than 38 years experience in Consulting and was a Consulting Director with Arthur Andersen.
Rod is a the construction industry with an extensive background in scheduling, Fellow of the Chartered Management Institute and a Member of the British estimating, cost control, and project management.
His EPC project delivery Computing Society.
experience spans many energy market sectors including solar, wind, gas, conventional power, and bio process industries.
Prior to joining Amec Foster Wheeler, Eddie held a number of leadership roles, including as President of Watkins Engineers & Constructors and Chief Operating Officer of Milton J.
Eddie completed the Construction Executive Program at Texas A&M University.
Garry Dryburgh Rupert Green Chief Transformation Officer Chief Corporate Development Officer Garry was appointed Chief Transformation Officer on 1 August 2016, Rupert was appointed to this position on 11 January 2017, with responsibility immediately prior to which he was President, Middle East & Africa.
Previously, for the Companys strategy, M&A and investor relations functions.
Prior to he led the integration of Amec Foster Wheeler and prior to that he was this he served as Head of Investor Relations from 2013.
He has almost 20 Executive Vice President, Asia Pacific for AMEC.
Before joining the business years experience of capital markets and M&A.
Before joining Amec Foster in 2006 Garry spent 16 years working internationally for one of the worlds Wheeler he was a director in the corporate broking team at Deutsche Bank, largest drilling contractors.
Garry has a strong operations, programme and where he acted as a company adviser across a number of sectors supporting change management background, with extensive experience across our equity issues and corporate transactions, including for AMEC.
He started core markets, acquired over the years on six continents.
Garry holds an his career as a trainee in a forensic accountancy practice.
Rupert holds a MSc in Project Management, Lancaster University and a BSc in Mechanical Masters degree in geography from Oxford University and is currently a Engineering, Robert Gordon University Aberdeen.
He is a Fellow of the member of the UK Investor Relations Societys policy committee.
Institute of Directors, Fellow of Association for Project Management, Member of Institution of Mechanical Engineers, and a registered Chartered Engineer.
Garry remains an active member of a Government Industry Leadership Set Group following his participation in a UK Cabinet Office Top Management Programme in 2009.
Dave Lawson Ann Massey President, Mining President, Environment & Infrastructure Appointed to this position in January 2017, Dave previously held the role Appointed to this position in January 2017, Ann previously held the role of President, Global Mining and Metals Markets.
He joined Foster Wheeler of Global E&I Market President.
Ann has over 30 years experience in project, in May 2013 as President of Minerals & Metals.
Prior to that, Dave held various programme, operations and business development in the engineering, roles within Ausenco, Aker, Kvaerner, Trafalgar House and the Davy McKee construction and environmental markets.
Prior to joining Amec Foster group of companies, accumulating over 35 years of executive management Wheeler, Ann held various operations and business development leadership experience in the engineering & construction business in the mining & roles, including President of the engineering and consulting and construction metals, power, oil & gas and environmental industries.
He has considerable businesses within MACTEC and as CEO of MACTEC, Inc. Ann holds a B. S. international experience including long term assignments in the USA, UK, in Geology and an MBA from Tennessee Technological University.
Australia, India, Greece, South Africa, Brazil and Chile.
Dave is currently a Director of the British Chamber of Commerce in Chile.
He holds a B. Sc Hons in Electrical Electronic Engineering from the University of Aston, Birmingham and a M. Sc.
in Project Management from Cranfield University School of Management, UK.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 61 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Leadership and effectiveness continued Our Executive committee continued Gary Nedelka John Pearson President, Global Power Group Division President, Oil, Gas & Chemicals Gary was appointed President, Global Power Group on 1 January 2015, John was appointed Division President, Oil, Gas & Chemicals on 1 January having served as Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheelers Global Power 2017.
Most recently he held the position of Group President, Americas Group since January 2009.
Prior to this, he served as President and Chief and prior to that Group President Northern Europe & CIS.
John joined the Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler North America Corp. an indirect, company in 1990 and has held a variety of roles in engineering and project wholly-owned subsidiary within the Global Power Group.
Previously he was management in Aberdeen, Baku and London, John led Amec Foster Wheelers President and General Manager of operating companies in China and he held oil & gas projects and asset support business streams globally, serving first a variety of positions of increasing responsibility in commercial operations as Head of Global Oil & Gas Projects from 2001 to 2003 and Head of Global and engineering management.
He joined Foster Wheeler in 1979 and is Oil & Gas Asset Support from 2004 to 2007.
He joined Amec Foster Wheeler a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
Gary holds from Chevron, where he held a number of engineering roles.
He is former a BSc in Mechanical Engineering from Clarkson College of Technology.
co-chair of Oil & Gas UK, and former chair of the Offshore Contractors Association and Pan Industry Efficiency Task Force.
John holds a BSc Hons in Engineering from Aberdeen University.
John Raine Jeff Reilly Chief HSSE Officer President, Business Development John was appointed Chief HSSE Officer on 23 January 2017, prior to which Jeff is currently serving as President, Business Development for Amec he was Vice President of Quality, Health, Safety, Security and Environment Foster Wheeler, where he leads the Companys overall business development QHSSE at Weatherford, based in Houston.
He began his career in the British activities across all market segments globally.
Jeff has over 30 years of Army, moving after six years to a role in the Prison Service in Peterhead, industry experience and, prior to joining Amec Foster Wheeler, worked for Scotland, where he worked with some of the countrys most serious a variety of international engineering and construction firms, including ABB offenders.
A focus on a more family-friendly profession saw him join the Lummus Global and Stone & Webster, where he served as Vice President Wood Group in Aberdeen in 2007 a move that marked the beginning of a at both Engineering and Construction organisations.
Most recently, Jeff spent distinguished career in oil and gas.
John soon moved to Weatherford and into nine years at ConocoPhillips Phillips 66, ultimately as the groups HSSE, where his passion for and dedication to HSSE took him to Australia, Chief Procurement Officer and Global Head of Projects.
He has an MBA Malaysia and the United States.
John holds a PgDip in Human Resource in Finance and International Business from the University of Houston Management from the Robert Gordon University.
and a BS in Chemical Engineering from The University of Texas Austin where he is an External Advisory Council Member for the Department of Chemical Engineering.
Will Serle Alison Yapp Chief People Officer Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary Will was appointed Chief People Officer on 1 January 2017.
He has held Alison was appointed General Counsel and Company Secretary on a number of senior HR related positions including Group Human Resources 1 December 2012.
Immediately prior to joining the Company she was Director since May 2011, and previously Human Resources Operations Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel of Hays plc, previous to Director since 2009.
Will is also responsible for sustainability at Amec Foster which she was Company Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of Charter plc.
He joined the Company in 2000 as Human Resources Director She has almost 25 years experience as a senior lawyer in industry.
She began for the oil & gas business, moving to the Natural Resources role in 2006. her career in private practice at Turner Kenneth Brown, advising corporate Since 2014, he has served on the board of Engineers Against Poverty.
and commercial clients in M&A before moving in-house to Johnson Matthey Will holds a Masters degree in Human Resources from the Robert Gordon plc where she held various senior legal roles.
Alison holds an LLB Hons University and is a Fellow of the CIPD.
from Bristol University and is a qualified solicitor.
Amec Foster Wheeler 62 Annual report and accounts 2016
