Leadership and effectiveness continued Board meetings continued Conflicts of interest The board has procedures in place for the disclosure and review Where the directors, particularly non-executive directors, require further insight on an issue, the Company Secretary of conflicts of interest.
No material conflicts of interest arose in 2016.
Prior to appointment, prospective directors provide will facilitate this from the business or relevant members of the senior management team.
Members of senior management are information on any conflicts of interest, and thereafter any potential conflicts of interest are considered at the start of regularly invited to attend board meetings to present on specific projects and issues.
The Company Secretary also ensures that each board meeting.
Accordingly, each director is aware of their responsibility to avoid a situation where they have an actual or the correct board procedures are followed from both a legal and a regulatory perspective.
potential conflict of interest, the requirement to keep the same under review and inform the Chairman and Company Secretary In addition to the advice and services of the Company of any change in their situation.
An effective procedure is in Secretary, a formal process exists for the directors to place for the board to authorise conflict situations in accordance obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of expense, where appropriate and necessary to discharge their association, should they arise.
In other cases, the conflict is responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is responsible for managed by excluding the relevant director from the discussion.
the organisation and co-ordination of access to such advice.
The Company Secretary ensures that a timely and accurate The Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate record of all meetings of the board and its committees is records, including the scope of any authorisations granted by taken and circulated.
In addition, the chairman of each board the board, and ensures the board undertakes regular reviews committee reports fully to the board following each meeting of conflict authorisations.
Such matters are normally recorded and minutes are made available to the board.
in the minutes of the relevant meetings.
If a director had a concern about the running of the Company Executive directors are not permitted to accept external or a proposed action that could not be resolved, this would be appointments without the prior approval of the board.
In addition, upon resignation, should The board will review the nature, scope and complexity a director have any such outstanding concerns, they would be of any proposed external appointments, to ensure they will invited to provide the Chairman with a written statement for not adversely impact a directors ability to devote such time circulation to the board.
No such statements were received and energy to their role as is necessary to discharge their during 2016. responsibilities effectively or create any potential conflicts.
Amec Foster Wheeler 56 Annual report and accounts 2016
