Leadership and effectiveness continued Non-executive directors The non-executive directors are crucial in bringing an external perspective and wide range of skills, experience, expertise and diversity of views to the boards deliberations and the development of strategy.
The membership of each of the board committees is structured to ensure the most effective use of each non-executive directors time and to reflect their individual skills and experience.
The non-executive directors constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management against agreed objectives and provide an invaluable contribution to the work of the boards committees.
The board benefits greatly from the contribution and balance they bring and to ensure this continues, the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, immediately following most scheduled board meetings.
The boards policy is that non-executive director appointments are normally for three consecutive three-year terms, subject to assessment by the nominations committee after the end of each term.
The committee makes recommendations on reappointments to the board.
To ensure their independence and ability to constructively challenge, the external commitments of each non-executive director, including those of the Chairman, are reviewed prior to appointment.
In accordance with the boards policy to ensure that the non-executive directors are not conflicted and are able to commit sufficient time to meet their duties and responsibilities to Amec Foster Wheeler, all additional prospective appointments are also disclosed to the board to determine whether they present a detrimental effect.
Each directors undertaking as to their ongoing commitment to the role, together with an assessment of their continued independence, is reviewed as part of their annual performance evaluation.
Amec Foster Wheelers non-executive directors are not employed by the Company in any capacity.
Kent Masters was the former Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler AG and Stephanie Newby was formerly an independent non-executive director of Foster Wheeler AG.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office by request to the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection at the companys forthcoming AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler 54 Annual report and accounts 2016
