Governance GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE June Sir John Parker the shortlist of candidates to succeed Ren Mdori as Chairman, Nomination Committee finance director senior management changes and succession planning.
July progress on the recruitment process for the appointment of the new finance director committee membership following Ray ORourkes decision to step down as a non-executive director.
COMPOSITION October Sir John Parker Chairman succession planning for non-executive directors Sir Philip Hampton following Judy Dlaminis decision to step down as a Ray ORourke resigned 25 July 2016 non-executive director Anne Stevens Byron Grote appointed 21 October 2016 recommendations to appoint new members to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES noting that Stephen Pearce had accepted an offer for the role of finance director.
Agreeing a skills and experience matrix for all directors with the approval of the Board to identify any skills gaps December to address when recruiting new directors.
finalised the role profiles for two non-executive director roles with external consultants With the assistance of external search consultants, identifying and reviewing in detail potential candidates update on succession planning for non-executive available in the market and agreeing a longlist of directors.
Following further discussion and research, deciding upon a shortlist of PROCESS USED IN RELATION TO BOARD candidates for interview.
Committee members interview APPOINTMENTS the shortlisted candidates and make a recommendation to the Board.
The Board is committed to ensuring that it remains diverse in terms of gender and ethnicity.
This includes targets of at Making recommendations as to the composition of the least 25% of the directors being female and at least one and Board and its committees and the balance between the preferably more person of colour.
At the date of this report, executive directors and non-executive directors in order the Boards gender diversity target is not currently met, as a to maintain a diverse Board with the appropriate mix of result of the resignation of Judy Dlamini in August 2016. skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
Search processes for new non-executive directors aim to Ensuring that the HR function of the Group regularly address this while securing the best possible candidates reviews and updates the succession plans for the directors for the Board, regardless of gender.
Spencer Stuart and senior managers.
These are presented to the Board South Africa and Heidrick & Struggles are retained by by the chief executive in the absence of other executive the Committee to assist with these search processes.
consultancies have worked for the Group in recruiting for The Committees terms of reference are available to senior appointments and were chosen for having the best view online.
understanding of the Boards requirements given the markets For more information, visit in which the most suitable candidates are likely to be found.
com aboutus ourapproach Shortlisted candidates are generally interviewed by all members of the Committee and, where practical, other COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2016 directors prior to Board approval.
The Committee met six times during 2016, discussing the following matters: February the composition of the Board and its committees, the leadership needs of the organisation and succession planning.
April succession planning for executive directors action plan to address the issues raised by the 2015 Board evaluation.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 79
