Governance GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2016 THE BOARD IN 2016 Throughout 2016, the Board monitored business CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE performance against that strategy, paying particular attention The Board supports the principles and provisions of the to the effects it had on employees and other stakeholders.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by The external evaluation gave the Board an opportunity to the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Company receive an objective assessment of its performance and has complied throughout the year with the Code, which is effectiveness at a time when, more than ever, its role was available on the FRCs website www.
Details crucial to the Company and its long term viability.
The results of how the Code has been applied are detailed below.
of the evaluation are described on page 77.
As always, the Board was supported in meeting its THE ROLE OF THE BOARD commitments by a number of committees to which it delegates certain of its responsibilities.
Some of those The Board is collectively responsible for the governance committees were established at specific times to allow of the Company and this role is particularly important closer attention and analysis of key aspects of the when the Company finds itself under stress and operating Companys business, such as the committee described in difficult economic conditions.
At times such as this, above, or to finalise matters already discussed in detail by shareholders and other stakeholders expect the Board the entire Board.
Other committees are more permanent to respond effectively and appropriately and to take the in nature and are required to ensure the Company actions necessary to ensure and safeguard the Companys correctly applies the principles of the Code, and the roles, long term success.
membership and activities during the year of these are As noted in the Chairmans introduction on page 65, the summarised on pages 78-109.
Some decisions are Board established a committee to revise and refine the sufficiently material that they can only be made by the Companys strategic response.
This was presented to, and Board as a whole.
The schedule of Matters Reserved for agreed by, the Board as a whole at its meeting in February the Anglo American plc Board, and the committees terms 2016.
The agreed strategy was outlined in the 2015 Annual of reference, explain which matters are delegated and Report and its progress to date is described elsewhere in which are retained for Board approval, and these this document.
documents can be found online.
For more information, visit www.
com aboutus ourapproach Governance structure The Board Group Management Committee Provides leadership to the Group and GMC is responsible for its long-term success.
Audit Committee Corporate Committee Responsible for formulating Oversight of financial reporting, audit, CorpCo strategy, setting targets budgets internal control and risk management.
Reviews corporate and ethical and managing the Groups policies and processes, and portfolio.
See page 80 for more details.
financial performance and For more information see budgets at business unit level.
GMC Rules on the Groups website.
Nomination Committee Operational Committee Responsible for Board composition, OpCo appointment of directors and senior Responsible for driving management and succession planning.
operational best practices across the Group and the See page 79 for more details.
Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Determines the remuneration of InvestCo executive directors, the chairman and Responsible for making senior management and oversees recommendations to the GMC remuneration policy for all employees.
See page 84 for more details.
Sustainability Committee Oversees management of sustainability issues, including safety, health, environment, social and government relations.
See page 78 for more details.
Board committees Executive committees Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 71 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2016 BOARD COMPOSITION having at least 25% female membership and retains The Code requires that there is a clear division of two ethnically diverse directors.
A separate process is responsibilities at the head of the Company between targeting the recruitment of a non-executive director the running of the Board one of the chairmans key with project management and large construction skills responsibilities and the executive responsibility for the alongside significant mining experience to further running of the Companys business the responsibility strengthen our Board.
of the chief executive, Mark Cutifani.
The chairman Sir John Parker is also responsible for leadership of the In respect of other measures of diversity, the Board has Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its directors from Australia, France, Ireland, Lesotho, the UK, role.
The Code also recommends that there is a senior and the USA, with a broad range of professional experience independent director to provide a sounding board for the as set out in the table below.
chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other In 2017, Ren Mdori will retire from the Board and as directors when necessary.
The senior independent director finance director.
Stephen Pearce is proposed for election Sir Philip Hampton is available to shareholders if they at the AGM in April to succeed him.
Stephen joined have concerns when communications through the normal Anglo American as finance director designate and as a channels have failed to resolve the matter or when such member of the GMC on 30 January 2017.
His biography contact is inappropriate.
In addition to the roles outlined above, the Board currently Following Sir John Parkers decision to step down as comprises a further two executive directors and five chairman during the course of 2017, Sir Philip Hampton additional independent non-executive directors, making is leading the Nomination Committees process to identify a total of 10 directors.
Sir John will continue to In 2016, two non-executive directors resigned, and one chair the Board until a successor is appointed.
of these resignations that of Judy Dlamini at the end of August resulted in the Boards composition falling below the Davies Report target of 25% female membership.
Recruitment processes have been under way since late 2016 resulting in the nomination of an additional female director for shareholders to vote on at the AGM in April.
This appointment will ensure that the Board returns to Board experience and diversity Professional experience Broad based Large Construction Health, international Previous Previous Economics Experience project in mining safety, business NED chief and global as an Directors Country Mining Engineering management oil and gas Finance welfare experience experience executive economy investor 1 Sir John Parker UK Mark Cutifani Australia 2 Ren Mdori France Byron Grote USA UK Sir Philip Hampton UK Tony ONeill Australia 3 Mphu Ramatlapeng Lesotho Jim Rutherford UK 4 Anne Stevens USA 5 Jack Thompson USA 1 Non-executive director British Coal Corporation 2 Non-executive director Petrofac Limited: SSE plc 3 Government minister 4 COO South America Ford 5 Born in Cuba, naturalised US citizen Also Group Management Committee members 72 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Governance BOARD DISCUSSIONS The rolling agenda of matters discussed by the Board is necessary, and finally approved by the Board.
Each of described and explained below.
The Board is scheduled to the Groups business unit heads presents to the Board in meet at least six times a year but meets more often should some depth once a year on key aspects of the business, circumstances warrant this.
In addition, a one and a half day including: safety and environment: performance: and strategy session is held, during which strategy formulated by risk management.
management is debated, stress-tested, modified if Board discussions TOPIC AND LINK AREAS COVERED COMMENTS TO STRATEGY Safety and Health Fatal incidents, Total The chief executive reports at each Board meeting on Group safety Recordable Case performance and this topic is always the first item on the agenda.
The Frequency Rate, health causes of fatal incidents and those causing injury are examined in detail and medical incidents by the Sustainability Committee and the findings discussed by the Board as a whole.
Management performance in reducing such incidents and to improve occupational health is reviewed.
Environment Environmental incidents, Material environmental incidents are reported on, together with efforts energy and climate change, made to reduce energy and natural resource consumption, and to generally water availability and reduce the impact of the Groups operations on the environment.
rehabilitation Socio-political Social incidents and Community complaints about environmental matters, and any health and performance, government, safety issues are reported.
Investor and media relations updates are given.
media and investor relations People Organisational restructure, Progress on organisational restructuring and changes in headcount are key appointments and monitored.
Targets for areas such as diversity are agreed and reported on.
resignations, business The Code of Conduct is reviewed and approved and progress of the roll-out integrity and Code of across the business is discussed.
The Board is updated on business integrity Conduct training being undertaken across the Group.
Operations Operational performance A report on each business unit is received and each business unit head by each business unit presents in detail on its operations, strategy and risks once a year.
The and progress of key projects Board also visit one of the Groups operations: in 2016 the Board visited the Element Six operation in Oxfordshire.
Financial Key financial measures, Progress against the annual budget is monitored and discussed.
Liquidity, liquidity and balance balance sheet strength and debt are reviewed and, if any corrective actions sheet strength, cost are necessary, these are agreed.
improvements Economic outlook Macro-economic The Board receives briefings from internal teams and external advisers and commodity prices environment and on trends in relevant areas and likely scenarios for global economic growth.
commodity price outlook Commodity prices, and the effect of these on the Group, are noted and taken into account for strategy and planning purposes.
Strategy Disposals, three-year plan, As well as having a dedicated strategy meeting each year, the Board progress on critical tasks reviews progress against the Groups agreed strategy at each meeting and considers if any changes to that strategy are needed.
There are annual presentations on exploration and innovation.
Board governance Reports from committees, Each of the committee chairs report on recent meetings and any legislative and regulatory developments which need the attention of the Board as a whole.
Reports are received on the Groups compliance with relevant legislation and compliance regulation, and any actions needed to respond to recent developments.
The Board receives biannual updates on material litigation across the Group.
Matters which generally assist the effective functioning of the Board and Group as a whole are considered and actions agreed.
For more information on our strategy and how we measure our performance through our pillars of value see pages 10-11.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 73 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2016 BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS 2016 FREQUENCY AND ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS The table below shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and committees during the year.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Independent Board Audit Sustainability Remuneration Nomination Sir John Parker n a 6 6 4 4 6 6 Mark Cutifani No 6 6 4 4 Ren Mdori No 6 6 1 Judy Dlamini Yes 4 4 3 3 2 3 2 Byron Grote Yes 6 6 4 4 4 4 1 1 Sir Philip Hampton Yes 6 6 3 4 4 4 6 6 Tony ONeill No 6 6 4 4 3 Ray ORourke Yes 4 4 1 3 3 3 4 4 Mphu Ramatlapeng Yes 6 6 4 4 Jim Rutherford Yes 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 Anne Stevens Yes 6 6 4 4 1 1 6 6 Jack Thompson Yes 6 6 4 4 4 4 1 Resigned 30 August 2016.
2 Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 21 October 2016.
4 Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 21 October 2016.
BOARD INFORMATION AND SUPPORT All directors have full and timely access to the information required to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
They have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, other members of the Groups management and staff, and external advisers.
Directors may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
Where a director is unable to attend a Board or committee meeting, he or she is provided with all relevant papers and information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss issues arising with the respective chairman and other Board and committee members.
74 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Governance BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS Harwell in the UK, part of the fide Beers Group of Both the Board and the business as a whole benefit from Companies.
In addition, several non-executive directors, the directors visiting the Groups operations.
As well as including members of the Sustainability Committee, visited gaining a better understanding of the various operations the following operations in South Africa during the year: the the Group undertakes, the directors have the opportunity Venetia diamond mine: the Bafokeng-Rasimone Styldrift to meet and talk to employees at those operations and platinum mine: and the Platinum Precious Metals Refinery.
understand more about the issues of importance to them.
During 2016, the Board visited the Element Six operation at Images Top left: Element Six head of applications cutting and grinding Wayne Leahy explains aspects of the companys precision testing.
Top right and bottom left: Element Six principal research scientist Richard Bodkin during a demonstration in the Customer Experience area.
Middle: Richard Bodkin and Element Six executive director, innovation Siobhan Duffy during a presentation to Board members.
Bottom right: In Element Sixs Press Hall, non-executive directors and Base Metals CEO Duncan Wanblad with Siobhan Duffy, research fellow Ray Spits and senior research scientist Serena Bonetti.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 75 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2016 BOARD EVALUATION INVESTOR RELATIONS In accordance with the Code, Independent Board Evaluation The Company maintains an active engagement with its key IBE, an external consultancy with no other connection to financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and the Company, conducted an external evaluation exercise buy and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
at the end of 2015, the results of which are shown on the The investor relations department manages the interaction following page.
A comprehensive brief was provided to with these audiences and regular presentations take place IBE, together with supporting materials, prior to their at the time of the interim and final results, as well as during attending Board and committee meetings.
Detailed the rest of the year.
An active programme of communication interviews were conducted with each of the directors, with potential shareholders is also maintained.
Any certain senior executives and representatives of the Groups significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to auditor, Deloitte.
Feedback was provided to the chairman the Company and its affairs are communicated to the Board.
and the committee chairs and a report on the chairman was presented to the senior independent director.
Overall, the The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the investor Board was considered to be generally effective and well relations department and analysts reports are circulated balanced, with some areas for improvement, including to the directors.
Feedback from meetings held between induction and risk management.
The chairman conducted executive management or the investor relations one-to-one interviews with each of the non-executive department, and institutional shareholders, is also directors following the evaluation.
At the end of 2016, Board and committee members During the year there were regular presentations to, and completed an online, questionnaire-based, internal meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, evaluation of performance.
The results of this evaluation continental Europe and North America to communicate will be reported in the 2017 Annual Report.
the strategy and performance of Anglo American, and an investor visit to the Jwaneng diamond mine in Botswana.
Executive directors and key executives, including business unit heads, host such presentations, which include seminars for investors and analysts and one-on-one meetings.
Throughout the year, executive management also presents at industry conferences that are mainly organised by investment banks for their institutional investor base.
The Companys website provides the latest news and historical financial information, details about forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts, and other information regarding Anglo American.
76 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Governance 2015 16 BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE EVALUATION ACTION PLAN BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES AREAS IDENTIFIED FOR ACTION FOLLOW-UP ACTIONS IN 2016 Risk management processes should be reviewed to The Audit and Sustainability Committees reviewed their incorporate best practices from other sectors, including involving respective risk management systems and recommended the Board in stress testing the combination of key risks, as per the improvements to the Board.
preparation of the viability statement.
The use of more external input to strategy discussions The Board received external briefings on the macro-economic as a way of sense-checking the data the Board is given and environment and on external perceptions of the Groups strategy challenging assumptions should be considered.
The views expressed were debated with the presenters, further considered by the Board and informed and influenced the decisions which were taken subsequently.
Tracking of strategy execution was needed for the Tracking of cost-reduction targets and disposals was a regular cost reduction programme and disposals plan by allocating agenda item for the Board in 2016, with designated executives accountability for the individual programmes, tracking key attending to update the Board on progress of each workstream.
milestones, and reviewing progress regularly at Board meetings.
This process will continue for the life of the items.
Contact between Board and business unit employees Board, Sustainability Committee and Audit Committee meetings should further improve, including the scheduling of deep dives on are attended by employees from around the business, and Board key issues at Sustainability Committee, Audit Committee and members are invited to visit Group operations and are encouraged Board meetings.
to meet with employees without management being present.
The Board as a whole visit one operation each year, and these visits provide an opportunity for the Board to meet and interact with local management and other employees, both in meetings and at Board dinners.
Additional meetings and visits outside of those scheduled are arranged if the directors think it would be useful to meet either specific individuals or employees in general.
Communication of decisions to management and employees, The Group director people and organisation briefed the Board on especially those adversely affected by the cost reduction and messaging and communication processes and messaging was disposals programme could be improved.
kept under review to ensure that it was appropriate and respectful.
Director induction and onboarding could be enhanced, For new directors, the chairman and company secretary will especially for new Board members who have not previously work together to improve the tailored induction plan and monitor served on the board of a UK listed company.
All Board members progress more frequently with the director concerned, adjusting should have an individual, tailored induction plan.
the programme itself, and future programmes, to reflect any lessons learned.
Review the Board skills matrix to ensure that the Boards The skills matrix is used to identify areas in which aggregate composition is appropriate and identify any skills gaps.
Board experience could be improved and is used as part of the recruitment process for new Board members and non-executive succession planning.
The Board and committee paper format should be used Without being overly prescriptive, standard templates are used more widely to help with the effective management of meetings to help authors and presenters structure their papers and and decision making.
presentations in a way that is helpful for the audience.
This helps ensure that time allocated to individual items is used efficiently, and that the meeting focuses on the key areas for discussion or decision making.
Information flows from the Remuneration and Nomination The non-executive directors sessions held after each Board Committees to the Board could be further improved with meeting are used to share confidential information and directors directors who do not serve on those committees receiving more are encouraged to raise any queries with the relevant chairmen.
All committee minutes are circulated to directors unless it is not appropriate to do so.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 77
