GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN FINANCE DIRECTOR Sir John Parker Ren Mdori GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, Doctorate in Economics DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA 74, joined the Board as a non-executive director on 9 July 59, joined the Board on 1 June 2005 and became finance 2009 and became chairman on 1August 2009.
Sir John director on 1 September 2005.
Ren will step down from is also chairman of the Nomination Committee and is a the Board and as finance director at the conclusion of member of the Sustainability Committee.
He is recognised the AGM in April 2017.
He is a member ofthe GMC and as a highly experienced and independent chairman and chairman of the CorpCo and the Investment Committee brings a wealth of leadership experience across a range InvestCo.
Ren brings significant financial and commercial of industries in many countries, including in South Africa.
expertise from capital-intensive businesses, supplying products to the oil refining, steel and mining industries, He is chairman of Pennon Group PLC, and a non-executive and experience in international finance in the UK, Europe director of Carnival Corporation and Airbus Group.
is a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford and was the President of the Royal Academy of Engineering from 2011 He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum to 2014.
Sir John was previously chairman of National Grid Limited, fide Beers and Petrofac Limited.
Ren is a plc, deputy chairman of DP World, senior non-executive former finance director of The BOC Group plc and was director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England, joint a non-executive director of SSE plc formerly Scottish chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE TECHNICAL DIRECTOR Mark Cutifani Tony ONeill BE Mining-Hons, FAusIMM, MBA, BASc Eng CEngFIMMM, DBA Hon, DoL Hon 58, was appointed as a director and chief executive on 59, was appointed to the Board as technical director on 3April 2013.
Mark is chairman of the Group Management 22July 2015.
Tony joined the Group in 2013 and has Committee GMC and a member of the Corporate responsibility for the Technical and Sustainability function.
Committee CorpCo and the Sustainability Committee.
He is chairman of the Operational Committee OpCo and He has 40 years experience of the mining industry across is a member of the CorpCo, InvestCo and the Sustainability a wide range of geographies and commodities.
He is also a non-executive director of fide Beers and Anglo American Platinum Limited.
Mark is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum Limited and chairman of Anglo American Tony joined AngloGold Ashanti in July 2008 as Executive South Africa and fide Beers.
He was previously CEO of Vice President Business and Technical Development, AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
Before joining AngloGold and served as joint acting CEO during 2013.
His 36-year Ashanti, Mark was the COO for Vales global nickel business.
career in the mining industry has spanned iron ore, copper, Prior to this he held senior executive positions with the nickel and gold, and includes his roles as Operations Normandy Group, Sons of Gwalia, Western Mining Executive at Newcrest Mining and as the head of the Gold Corporation, Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines and Business at Western Mining Corporation.
Tony is a mining CRA Rio Tinto.
engineer with an MBA from the University of Melbourne.
In 2016, Mark was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Laurentian University in Canada.
66 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Governance SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Sir Philip Hampton Mphu Ramatlapeng MA, ACA, MBA MD, MHSc 63, joined the Board on 9 November 2009 and has served 64, was appointed to the Board on 8 July 2013 and is a as the senior independent director since April 2014.
He is member of the Sustainability Committee.
Mphu is ahighly chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member experienced leader who brings to Anglo American a broad of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Sir Philip is range of global health expertise at board level across both chairman of GlaxoSmithKline and brings to Anglo American the public and private sectors.
significant financial, strategic and boardroom experience Mphu is the executive vice president of the HIV AIDS and across a number of industries.
Tuberculosis programmes for the Clinton Health Access His previous appointments include chairman of The Royal Initiative and also the vice chair of the Global Fund To Fight Bank of Scotland and JSainsbury plc, finance director of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
She served as Minister of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Health and Social Welfare of Lesotho between 2007 and Gas plc and British Steel plc, executive director of Lazards, 2012.
In this role, she championed Lesothos significant and non-executive director of RMC Group plc and achievements inreducing the transmission of HIV from Belgacom SA.
Across her career, she has been a leading advocate for women in business, including serving as founding board member of Women in Business in Lesotho.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Jim Rutherford BSc Econ, MA Econ Byron Grote PhD Quantitative Analysis 57, joined the Board on 4 November 2013 and is a member of the Audit and Sustainability Committees.
Jim has 68, was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013.
He is extensive experience in investment management and chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the investment banking, and brings to the Board considerable Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Byron financial insight from the perspective of the capital markets contributes broad business, financial and board experience and a deep understanding of the mining industry.
In 2016, Jim was appointed as chairman of Dalradian Byron is vice chairman of the supervisory board of Akzo Resources Inc. having served as a non-executive director Nobel and a non-executive director of Standard Chartered since 2015, and as chairman of the Queens University PLC and Tesco PLC.
He is a member of the European Audit Belfast Foundation Board.
Between 1997 and 2013, he Committee Leadership Network and an emeritus member was a senior vice president of Capital International Investors, of the Cornell University Johnson Advisory Council.
Byron a division of the Capital Group, and had responsibility for has extensive management experience across the oil and investments in the mining and metals industry.
He served on the BP plc board from 2000 joining Capital Group, Jim was an investment analyst until 2013 and was BPs chief financial officer during much covering the South American mining and metals industry of that period.
He was previously a non-executive director for HSBC James Capel in NewYork.
of Unilever NV and Unilever PLC.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 67 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS continued Anne Stevens Jack Thompson BSc, PhD BSc, PhD 68, joined the Board on 14 May 2012 and is a member 66, joined the Board on 16 November 2009.
Jack is of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
chairman of the Sustainability Committee and a member Anne brings a wealth of experience and wide-ranging of the Remuneration Committee.
He brings experience commercial acumen from a number of global industries.
gained at all levels of the mining industry in North and She has experience gained across North, Central and South America and has received wide recognition as South America.
Anne is a non-executive director of GKN plc, Lockheed Jack is a non-executive director of Tidewater Inc.
He Martin Corporation and XL Catlin.
She served as chairman was previously chairman and CEO of Homestake Mining and CEO of SA IT Services from 2011 until her retirement Company, vice chairman of Barrick Gold Corporation, in December 2014.
From 2006 to 2009, Anne was chairman and has served on the boards of Centerra Gold Inc. and CEO of Carpenter Technology Corporation.
Prior to Century Aluminum Company, Molycorp Inc. Phelps this, she was COO for the Americas at Ford Motor Company Dodge Corporation, Rinker Group, and Stillwater Mining.
until 2006, the culmination of her 16-year career with the company.
Her early career was spent at Exxon Corporation, where she held roles in engineering, product development, In addition, the following non-executive directors and sales and marketing.
served during the year: Ray ORourke stepped down from the Board on 25 July 2016.
Judy Dlamini stepped down from the Board on 30 August 2016.
68 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016
