GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditors ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OF THE effectiveness through a structured questionnaire and EXTERNAL AUDITOR input from all business units and Group functions covering Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence is all aspects of the audit process.
consistent with the ethical standards published by the Audit tender Audit Practices Board.
Anglo American will undertake, at the latest, a tender A key factor that may impair an auditors independence is and rotation of the audit appointment at the time of the alack of control over non-audit services provided by the rotation of the lead engagement partner which is due external auditor.
The external auditors independence is after completion of the 2019 audit.
Deloitte has been the deemed to be impaired if the auditor provides a service that: auditor since 1999. results in the auditor acting as a manager or employee Anglo American confirms compliance during the year of the Group with the provisions of the Competition and Markets puts the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group Authority Order on mandatory tendering and audit committee responsibilities.
creates a mutuality of interest between the auditor and the Group.
Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2016 The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the external Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary auditors independence was not impaired.
measures, namely: disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services The Audit Committee held meetings with the external auditor without the presence of management on two the prohibition of selected services this includes the occasions, and the chairman of the Audit Committee held undertaking of internal audit services regular meetings with the lead audit engagement partner prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of during the year.
non-audit services where the cost of the proposed service is likely to exceed $50,000.
Consideration given to the appointment of the external auditor Anglo Americans policy on the provision of non-audit The Audit Committees assessment of the external services is regularly reviewed and has been updated to reflect auditors performance and independence underpins its new regulations that became effective on 1 January 2017. recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders The definition of prohibited non-audit services corresponds the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor until the with the European Commissions recommendations on the conclusion of the AGM in 2018.
Resolutions to authorise the auditors independence and with the Ethical Standards Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration of issued by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on 24April2017.
Non-audit work is only undertaken where there is Risk management commercial sense in using the auditor without jeopardising Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is audit independence.
Non-audit fees represented 49% of integral to the achievement of our objectives.
establishes the system of risk management, setting risk Other safeguards appetite and maintaining the system of internal control to The external auditor is required to adhere to a rotation manage risk within the Group.
The Groups system of risk policy based on best practice and professional standards management and internal control are monitored by the in the UK.
The standard period for rotation of the audit Audit Committee under delegation from the Board.
engagement partner is five years and for any key audit The system of risk management is designed to ensure partner, seven years.
The audit engagement partner was awareness of risks that threaten the achievement of appointed in 2015, and will rotate off at the end of the objectives.
The controls that mitigate those risks are 2019 audit in accordance with this requirement identified so that assurance can be provided on the Any partner designated as a key audit partner of effectiveness of those controls and a determination can AngloAmerican shall not be employed by Anglo American be made as to whether the risk is operating within the in a key management position unless a period of at least Groups risk appetite.
We seek to embed a culture of two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last risk awareness into the development of our strategic relevant audit and operational objectives.
The external auditor is required to assess periodically The process for identification and assessment of the whether in their professional judgement they are principal risks combines a top-down and bottom-up independent of the Group approach.
At the operations level, a process to identify The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors all risks that prevent the achievement of objectives is work is sufficient and that the auditor is fairly remunerated undertaken.
Detailed analysis of the material risks at The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making each location is performed to ensure management recommendations to the Board on the appointment, understanding of the risk and controls that reduce likelihood re-appointment and removal of the external auditor of occurrence and impact should the risk materialise.
These operational risk profiles contribute to the assessment of The Audit Committee has the authority to engage risks at the business unit level.
Executive management at independent counsel and other advisers as they determine each business unit assess risks that threaten achievement necessary to resolve issues on the auditors independence 82 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Governance of the business unit objectives and the status of controls, and annual audit coverage plans were approved by the or actions, that mitigate those risks.
At the Group level, risks Audit Committee.
are identified through assessment of global factors affecting The scope of internal audit work covers the broad the industry and the Group specifically, as well as the risks spectrum of risk that the Group is exposed to.
The audit arising from the business unit assessments.
Materiality of controls associated with major operating technical of risk is determined through assessment of the various risks is undertaken in conjunction with relevant experts impacts that may arise and likelihood of occurrence.
An from the Technical and Sustainability function, the results exception relates to those risks deemed catastrophic in ofwhich were shared with the Sustainability Committee nature, where the focus of assessment is on impact and andAudit Committee.
status of internal controls, given the very low likelihood of occurrence.
When considering the impact of any risk, we In determining its opinion that the internal control assess financial, safety, environmental, legal or regulatory, environment was effective during 2016, the Audit social and reputational consequences.
Committee considered the following factors: the results of internal audit work, including the response The robust process of identifying and evaluating the of management to completion of actions arising from principal risks is ongoing and was in place during 2016. audit work Regular reports on the status of risks and controls are presented toexecutive management teams throughout the the output of risk management work year.
TheAudit Committee reviews reports on the overall the output of external audit work and other AngloAmerican risk profile on two occasions during the assurance providers year and conducts in-depth reviews of specific risks during issues identified by management or reported through itsmeetings over the course of the year.
Each principal whistleblowing arrangements, and the results of riskis assigned to either the Board or the relevant Board investigations into allegations of breaches of our committees to oversee executive management actions values and business principles.
The Audit Committee reviews that oversight process on an annual basis.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control Details of the principal risks are provided on pages 42-45.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, fulfils its Risk appetite responsibility in reviewing the effectiveness of the system We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk of risk management and internal control through review of that Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the reports submitted over the course of the year covering the pursuit of its objectives.
Each principal risk is assessed as risk management process, adequacy of the internal control to whether it is operating within the limit of appetite for the environment, consideration of risk appetite, in-depth Group based on review of the external factors influencing reviews of specific risks and the results of external audit that risk, the status of management actions to mitigate or work.
The Sustainability Committee also reviews technical control the risk and the potential impact should the risk and safety risks in detail and reports its findings to the Board.
For risks operating beyond the limit of appetite, Whistleblowing programme a change in strategy may be required.
For risks operating The Group has a whistleblowing facility operating in all within, but approaching the limit of, appetite, specific its managed operations and a Group-wide stakeholder management actions may be required to ensure the risk complaints and grievance procedure see the 2016 remains within the limit of appetite.
Sustainability Report for more details.
The whistleblowing Risk management and the system of internal control programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee, Controls either reduce the likelihood or impact of any risk is designed to enable employees, customers, suppliers, once it has occurred and the identification of material managers or other stakeholders to raise concerns on a controls i. e. those controls that have the most influence confidential basis where conduct is deemed to be contrary in mitigating a risk is an important input for audit planning.
The system of internal control operates on a traditional During 2016, 413 2015: 388 reports were received via three lines of defence approach, with operating the global Speak Up facility, covering a broad spectrum management implementing and monitoring controls of concerns, including: on a day-to-day basis, and business unit or functional ethical management providing a second line of defence through criminal regular and frequent oversight of operating managements implementation of controls.
A centrally managed internal supplier relationships audit department provides the third line of defence by health and safety reviewing design and operating effectiveness of the HR issues.
internal control environment, which includes the work Reports received were anonymous to Anglo American.
performed by the first and second lines of defence Allreceived the appropriate attention and, where necessary, management teams.
Internal audit operated in all of the action was taken to address issues.
A governance process Groups managed businesses in 2016, reporting its work isin place to ensure all reports are acted upon in a timely to executive management and the Audit Committee on a manner and actions completed where necessary.
The internal audit departments mandate Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 83
