LEADERSHIP SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS Q&A OLLIE OLIVEIRA, SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR THE COMPANYS OBLIGATIONS TOWARDS SHAREHOLDERS ARE ALWAYS GIVEN THE HIGHEST LEVELS OFIMPORTANCE How do you see your role as or its associates to a committee Q Senior Independent Director?
of Directors who are independent SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS from the controlling shareholder It is my responsibility to support for approval.
the Chairman on a number of As at 31 December 2016 and 13 March 2017, the following significant levels.
A major part is to ensure In addition, as a Board, we are holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been that he has a direct channel of satisfied that the balance of the disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: communication to understand the Board, in terms of background and ORDINARY PREFERENCE TOTAL issues that are especially important independence, limits the scope SHARE SHARE SHARE to the Boards independent Nonfor an individual or small group of SHAREHOLDER CAPITAL % CAPITAL % CAPITAL % Executive Directors and to the individuals to dominate the Boards 1 Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Companys shareholders.
2 Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 I am based in the UK which What steps were taken by 3 Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 allows me to keep in touch with Q the Board to provide for an shareholders, directors at other orderly succession to the Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both UK-listed companies and advisers, role of Senior Independent controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation Abaroa, in which members to ensure that the Chairman, Director?
of the Luksic family are interested.
As explained in Note 37 to the the Board and the Group as a whole Financial Statements, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate I have been a Director of the receive independent and objective Parent Company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the Company since 2011.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by the then, I have had a number of Severe Studere Foundation that, in turn, is controlled by Jean-Paul Are there any additional opportunities to gather perspectives Q Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
responsibilities attaching on the Group from independent to this role given the Directors and shareholders and Company has a controlling other stakeholders.
Before my appointment as Senior RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT The Company has had a controlling Independent Director, I was shareholder for 36 years.
Although approached by former Senior Abaroa is a controlling shareholder of the Company under the Listing the controlling shareholders track Independent Director, William Rules and certain other shareholders of the Company including record has been excellent and Hayes, and the Chairman to discuss Aureberg Establishment are also treated as controlling shareholders.
speaks for itself, the Companys the responsibilities and expectations In 2014 the Company entered into relationship agreements in respect obligations towards all its of the role.
Together, we decided of each controlling shareholder, which contain the mandatory shareholders are always given the that the transition should commence independence provisions required by the Listing Rules.
The Company highest level of importance.
It is with a number of meetings with has complied and, so far as the Directors are aware, each controlling part of my role to ensure that this shareholders and proxy voting shareholder and its associates has complied, with the mandatory continues to be the case and to give advisers to gauge their views on the independence provisions at all times during 2016.
So far as the all shareholders a route by which change and also on management Directors are aware, Abaroa has procured of that each of Metalinvest they can make their opinions known.
These meetings also Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment have also complied with enabled us to continue to foster In addition to the regulatory these provisions.
the channels of communication requirement for related party and relationships established by transactions outside the ordinary Mr Hayes during his tenure as course of business to be subject Senior Independent Director.
to independent assessment and approval, the Company has for many years presented any such proposed OLLIE OLIVEIRA related party transaction regardless SENIOR INDEPENDENT of its size between the Company DIRECTOR and the controlling shareholder 70 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016
