Our resources and relationships Our success to date has been based on a number of key elements: our customer service: our strong management and culture: our supplier relationships and our processes and systems.
Customer relationships Our online platform includes detailed technical information, customer reviews and product and price comparison tools, which are not always available in stores.
Destination for information One of our aims is to become the destination for information helping our customers decide which product best matches their needs.
We provide 3D animation and feature led-reviews to bring products to life, we simplify complex technologies, highlight user-benefits and then deliver it to the customer with our market leading standard.
We offer over 5,500 SKUs in the UK, close to 2,000 in Germany Supplier relationships and over 600 so far in the Netherlands, a price match promise and deliver seven days a week six in Germany and the Netherlands A trusted partner at no extra charge.
Our AV and SDA ranges are growing along with We are reliant on our suppliers and see our role as being the the range of ancillary services we offer such as customer finance most direct and smartest link between them and the end user options, an unpack and recycle service, product care packs and our customers.
There is considerable interdependence between us and most What do customers want?
of the relationships have been in place for many years.
These Best products, Best service, Best price!
relationships are becoming increasingly strategically important to our suppliers as we grow our customer base, sales volumes and So thats what we offer... influence on customer demand, but also to us as we seek to launch... as a result customer satisfaction levels are high and our in new countries and try to leverage existing relationships.
As at 1 June 2016 we ranked an excellent 9.6 on Trustpilot for AO.
Our NPS and Bringing products to life DTP scores remain consistently high too.
We understand they invest millions in research to develop product features so we think a lot about and invest in how we add value for supplier brands to be the trusted partner in our channel and we always think long term.
Our innovative content offers our manufactures a great platform to showcase their products and deliver our brand messages as our 3D animation and feature-led reviews bring products to life.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 14 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Processes and systems Distribution Our UK in-house delivery network runs from Crewe and 10 stockless outbases around the UK.
We operate a similar model in Europe and currently have a distribution centre in Bedburg and a number of outbases and customer service centres across Germany and the Netherlands.
We plan to start operating from our European Regional Office and Distribution Centre in Bergheim later in the year.
Strong management and culture Delivery and installation options, speed and reliability are important as are the removal and recycling of the old appliances.
Our employees Happy people care more and require a lot less management.
We believe that the standard of the delivery service we provide is So we make sure theyre happy by giving them autonomy where crucial: its a key part of our pixie dust, given that delivery teams appropriate, support where needed and a great environment to are typically the only face-to-face interaction that customers have work in.
They are empowered: they are incentivised: and they with the Company.
We love watching them grow and thrive.
In the UK, we run a dual branded fleet as our two-man delivery Our values service is also used by a small number of third parties who ask us We recruit and retain the best talent and look for people who are to deliver their own products through our network on their behalf.
They must care more, not only about our customers but other stakeholders of the business too, be it the IT manufacturers and suppliers, other employees and, of course, Our core IT systems have all been developed in-house.
The our drivers, and do it all with a sense of fun.
systems are bespoke: built for and continuously adapted to fit the needs of the business.
They are therefore not easily replicable by Our team any competitor and they are scalable and resilient.
There are 10 of us on the Group Executive Team, including the Executive Directors, and we have an average length of service Our automated stock forecasting and ordering system is integrated of over eight years.
with suppliers systems meaning that we can combine high levels of availability for next-day delivery with the efficient use of working capital.
It also means that we can optimise resources by, for example, loading trucks most efficiently.
It means we know the business inside out and trust each other implicitly.
In financial terms... we will earn more money through driving efficiencies and leveraging infrastructure.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
