Corporate Governance Statement Board of Directors This year our Brand team have been focusing on the moments of happiness created by appliances and electricals, so we asked our Board members to do the same.
Mark Higgins Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board 1 August 2015 Relevant skills & experience 1.
Richard Rose Group Finance Director for four Non-Executive Chairman years prior to appointment as AOs Chief Financial Officer Senior finance roles held at Appointment to the Board Enterprise Managed Services Ltd 1 August 2008 and the Caudwell Group Member of the Chartered Institute Relevant skills & experience of Management Accountants Significant Board experience, including Chair, Chief Executive Committee membership Officer and Non-executive roles 3.
Steve Caunce Mark attends the Remuneration, Extensive retail experience across Chief Operating Officer Audit and Nomination Committees the UK by invitation.
Strong customer focus and flair Appointment to the Board for driving growth 13 October 2005 Electrical appliance moment Currently Non-Executive Chairman of happiness of Crawshaw Plc, former NonRelevant skills & experience Taking some time out with a freshly Executive Chairman of Booker and Thorough knowledge and brewed coffee and my to do list sets former Chief Executive Officer and 2.
John Roberts understanding of the Groups the day off to a good start.
Executive Chairman of Whittard of business having been Chief Founder and Chief Chelsea Plc Operating and Chief Financial Officer Executive Officer from 2005 until 2015 Significant current external Substantial experience in businesses appointments Appointment to the Board with a strong consumer focus Non-Executive Chairman of Anpario 2 August 2005 AO Retail Limited Significant Board and management Plc, Crawshaw Group Plc and 19 April 2000 experience: previously Finance Watchstone Group Plc Director at Phones 4U Limited and Relevant skills & experience senior positions held at MyTravel Plc Committee membership Co-founded the business over and Preston North End Plc Richard chairs the Nomination 15 years ago giving him thorough Associate of the Institute of Chartered Committee.
knowledge and understanding Accountants in England and Wales of the Groups business Independent Extensive CEO experience: led the Committee membership On appointment.
management team to successfully Steve attends the Remuneration, develop and expand the business Audit and Nomination Committees Electrical appliance moment during periods of challenging market by invitation.
of happiness conditions A good diet is really important for me, Significant industry experience Electrical appliance moment a homemade smoothie gets my day off having previously worked in the of happiness to the best possible start.
kitchen appliance industry Putting on a clean, fresh AO cycling jersey gives me a real sense of pride Committee membership and a massive boost before a big ride.
John attends the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees by invitation.
Electrical appliance moment of happiness You cant beat an ice cold beer in the evening: the perfect way to unwind, process the day and think about whats next.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 44 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information 6.
Chris Hopkinson Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board 12 December 2005 Relevant skills & experience 8.
Rudi Lamprecht Former City Financial Analyst Significant industry experience Non-Executive Director Holds a Masters degree in Logistics Appointment to the Board 5.
Brian McBride Significant external appointments 17 January 2014 Senior Independent Director Executive Director of Better Business Support Ltd and Clifton Relevant skills & experience Appointment to the Board Trade Bathrooms Ltd Wealth of Executive and Non- 6 February 2014 Executive Director experience Independent Significant industry knowledge Relevant skills & experience No.
previous Non-Executive Director of Extensive online retail experience BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgerte former Managing Director of Committee membership GmbH & Co. KG Amazon.
Marisa Cassoni Chris is a member of the Audit ASOS Plc and Wiggle Ltd and Nomination Committees.
Non-Executive Director Significant external appointments Significant non-executive and Founder, President and Chief Executive governance experience Electrical appliance moment Officer of EWC East-West-Connect Appointment to the Board Masters degree in Economics, of happiness GmbH & Co. KG and Non-Executive 5 February 2014 History and Politics I love cooking, so a delicious Sunday Director of Duagon AG and Fujitsu roast and seeing everyone round Technology Solutions Holding B. V. Relevant skills & experience Significant external appointments the dinner table enjoying it.
ICAEW chartered accountant with Chairman of ASOS Plc and Wiggle Ltd.
Independent extensive financial and governance Yes.
experience in both private and Independent public companies Yes.
Committee membership Previously finance director of John Rudi is a member of the Audit Committee Lewis Partnership Ltd, Royal Mail Committee membership and the Remuneration Committee.
Group and the UK division of Brian is Chair of the Remuneration Prudential Group Committee and a member of the Electrical appliance moment Panel member of the Competition Nomination Committee.
of happiness and Markets Authority As a big football and golf fan, I like to stay Wealth of Board experience Electrical appliance moment up to date.
A good TV means I can really of happiness get in on the action.
Significant external appointments I love surfing the web and discovering Non-Executive Director of Skipton new gadgets.
I find new technology Group Holdings Ltd, Enterprise Inns Plc really exciting, especially stuff around and The Peoples Operator Plc music and leisure.
Committee membership Marisa is the Chair of the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Electrical appliance moment of happiness I love the opera, and the only thing better than being there is really turning up the volume at home.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
