STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTABILITY NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMPLEMENTARY SKILLS & EXPERIENCE JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC, CHAIRMAN THE NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE SUPPORTS THE BOARD IN ENSURING THAT THE GROUP HAS EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES IN PLACE AND THAT THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES OPERATE EFFECTIVELY 2016 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Other regular attendees include the Group CEO, Company Secretary NUMBER ATTENDED and Secretary to the Board.
1 Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman 5 6 Effective 1 January 2017, William Hayes rotated off the Committee and Ollie Oliveira joined the Committee.
William Hayes 6 6 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Tim Baker 6 6 Except for the Chairman, all Committee members are independent.
The Chairman was unable to attend one meeting due to a last-minute commitment KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Reviewed the Governance section of the 2015 Annual Report and Recommended the appointment of independent Non-Executive recommended it to the Board for approval.
Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and recommended Recommended the appointment of independent Non-Executive amendments to the Board for approval.
Director, Ollie Oliveira, to the roles of Senior Independent Director Recommended that the transition of the Senior Independent and Audit and Risk Committee Chairman.
Director include meetings with shareholders to discuss corporate Recommended the appointment of independent Non-Executive governance matters.
Director, Vivianne Blanlot, to the role of Sustainability and Reviewed revised versions of the Groups Share Dealing Code and Stakeholder Management Committee Chairman.
Disclosure Procedures updated for the EU Market Abuse Regulation Recommended changes to the composition of all Committees.
and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Reviewed the independence of all Directors, making recommendations to the Board.
SUCCESSION PLANNING BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEWS Reviewed and updated the written succession plans for the Board Commissioned an  review of the effectiveness and its Committees.
of the Board and its Committees.
Implemented succession plans and oversaw the appointment of a Oversaw the implementation of the recommendations arising from new CEO, Senior Independent Director, Audit and Risk Committee the review.
Chairman and Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee Chairman.
CO. UK 85 ACCOUNTABILITY NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CONTINUED What is the main function How important is a JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC, CHAIRMAN Q Q of the Nomination and comprehensive induction Governance Committee?
We support the Board in ensuring It is essential both for the new THE BOARD BELIEVES IN that the Group has effective Director and for the Company.
governance structures in place, THE BENEFITS OF DIVERSITY, I am responsible for ensuring that that the Board and its Committees any new Directors receive a full are operating effectively and that INCLUDING GENDER, AND induction on joining the Board, and the Board and its Committees the Secretary to the Board and the are comprised of Directors with IN 2016 THE APPOINTMENT Company Secretary both assist with necessary and appropriate skills.
We make recommendations for OF FRANCISCA CASTRO Details of the induction process change where appropriate.
for Francisca Castro are set out on INCREASED THE NUMBER OF This involves: page 81. monitoring trends, initiatives FEMALE DIRECTORS TO TWO Do you think it is important and proposals in relation to Q to have a Board review corporate governance: each year?
overseeing and facilitating Improvement is a continuous annual reviews of the process and we welcome the Chairman, Directors and the opportunity to regularly assess Board, including externally how effectively we operate as a facilitated reviews: THE BOARDS APPROACH TO Board and how we can improve evaluating and overseeing the SUCCESSION PLANNING even further.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and its The assessment of the Board and The Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board and Committees and reviewing the its Committees through an annual its Committees.
The Committee regularly discusses relevant profiles independence of Directors: and review has now become part of for future appointments and, when required, assists the Board in the normal governance cycle and identifying appropriate candidates.
overseeing Board and CEO we consider it to be a very useful succession plans and leading the The Committee reviewed succession plans for all Board and process.
We plan our reviews on process of identifying suitable Committee roles in 2016. the basis that at least every three candidates to fill vacancies, The Committee regularly reviews the written succession plans in years we will conduct an external nominating such candidates place for the Board and Committees to ensure that vacancies can effectiveness review.
An external for approval by the Board and be appropriately filled.
Contingency plans are in place for a range of review was held in 2013 and again ensuring that the appointments situations, including the loss of key personnel.
in 2016 and the details of the most are made on merit and against recent review are set out on pages objective criteria.
During 2016, the Committee thoroughly reviewed the skills matrix 82 and 83. which sets out the core competencies and areas of expertise on the What has the Committee been Board, highlighting areas to be addressed in the future and amending It is useful to assess the Q working on during 2016?
the skills in the matrix to reflect changes in the Groups strategy and in commitment of individual Directors 2016 has been a period of the current market environment.
to ensure that they have enough significant activity and the time available to devote to their Committee met on six occasions, roles, and I am satisfied that this recommending the implementation is true for all our Directors.
of, and changes to, Board and Committee succession plans, culminating in the changes set out on page 68 and overseeing the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review as described on pages 82 and 83.
What are the steps that you Q take to identify and appoint new Directors?
When we are looking for a new Director, we consider the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and identify potential candidates who would best meet a number of criteria, including relevant experience, skills, personality type, contribution to Board diversity and whether they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
The steps taken to identify and appoint independent Non-Executive Director Francisca Castro are set out on page 87.
86 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPOINTMENT OF FRANCISCA CASTRO The process was led by the Nomination and Governance Committee with the assistance of the Secretary to the Board.
Board and Committee succession plans tabled for review.
JUN Key business experience and skills required agreed by the Committee.
Intertrust Head Hunting engaged to AUG assist with the search.
Intertrust Head Hunting provided longlist of potential candidates for consideration.
SEP Four candidates shortlisted and interviewed by the Chairman and the members of the Committee.
OCT Committee considered shortlisted candidates and made recommendation to the Board.
Intertrust Head Hunting is an independent external adviser with no other connection to the Company.
What prompted the changes The Board believes in the benefits Groups businesses and any local Q to the composition of of diversity, including gender, and in expectations that may apply.
the Board Committees in 2016 the appointment of Francisca The Committee has reviewed November 2016?
Castro increased the number of and discussed the Corporate female Directors to two.
We review the membership of Governance Reform Green Paper each Board Committee annually The Board plans to continue to have published by the UK Governments and, following the 2016 review, at least one female Director and Department for Business, Energy recommended a number of changes will keep looking for opportunities & Industrial Strategy and will for approval by the Board.
This was to increase female representation continue to monitor any further with the intention of refreshing and further, while continuing to appoint developments in 2017. strengthening the performance of Directors based on merit.
How does corporate JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC, We expect the composition of Q governance fit in with the CHAIRMAN OF THE the Board and its Committees to other responsibilities of the NOMINATION AND remain unchanged in 2017.
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Sound corporate governance is How is diversity taken into Q fundamental to Board effectiveness.
account when making Board The Companys shares are admitted appointments?
GENDER DIVERSITY to a Premium listing on the London The Board comprises highly capable It is widely reported that companies in the mining sector face Stock Exchange and the Company and committed individuals with a particular challenges in recruiting and retaining female talent.
One of reports against, and complies with, diverse range of technical skills, the main challenges is the low level of female participation at all levels all of the provisions of the UK backgrounds, expertise, cultures, of the mining industry.
This industry-wide challenge is particularly Corporate Governance Code.
relevant for Antofagasta as its operations and corporate centre are The Committee is responsible for located in Chile where less than half of women currently participate in The Board benefits from the monitoring the Boards corporate the job market.
Furthermore, it is less common for women in Chile to diversity of personal attributes governance arrangements, pursue higher education in the fields of engineering, mathematics and among Board members.
Diversity of reviewing the Companys corporate sciences disciplines that, of necessity, feed into participation in the culture, views, attitudes, background governance framework at least mining industry.
and gender is important to ensure annually and recommending any that the Board is not composed During 2017 the Group will be initiating a programme to improve changes to the Board.
opportunities for female employees and to ensure that the working As part of the annual review In performing these functions, environment throughout the Group encourages the recruitment and process, the Board assesses the Committee uses the UK retention of female talent.
This programme includes measurable its effectiveness in meeting its Corporate Governance Code as a deliverables which are part of the Groups Annual Bonus Plan metrics diversity goals.
benchmark and takes into account for 2017. the nature and location of the ANTOFAGASTA.
