Corporate Governance Statement continued Overview of Governance structure AO World Plc Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board.
The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Directors focus on strategy, monitoring, governance and the performance of the Group.
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees to assist it with discharging its duties, and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the Executive Directors who cascade this responsibility to the Group Executive Team GET and throughout the Group.
The Reports of each Committee can be found on pages 50 to 69.
Group Executive Team Committees Senior Management Team Audit Remuneration Nomination see page 53 see page 57 see page 50 Risk see page 22 The Board The formal schedule of matters reserved to our Board for decision making includes: Role of the Board Our Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance Setting and reviewing the Groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy, business plan and annual budget.
and meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business.
The Board is responsible for supervising the management of the Overseeing the Groups operations and management.
Governance and risk control issues.
business and approving the strategic direction of the Company with three committees to which it delegates key governance and Major capital projects.
A full list of those matters reserved for the Board is available on the Companys website at www.
com corporate and from the Company The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure all matters reserved Secretary upon request.
to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer Current composition of our Board As at the date of this Annual Report the Board comprises eight update the Board on key operational developments, provide an overview of the market, report on health and safety and other key members: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four NonExecutive Directors, which includes the Senior Independent Director.
operational risks and highlight the important milestones reached in the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Chief Financial All our Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Mark Higgins as detailed below.
Further details of the relevant skills Officer provides an update on the Groups financial performance, banking arrangements and, together with the CEO and COO provides and experience of the Board are set out in their biographical details set out on pages 44 and 45.
The Board regularly reviews its composition, an update on AOs relationships with investors and potential investors and shareholder analysis.
Meeting proceedings and any unresolved experience and skills to ensure that the Board and its Committees continue to work effectively and that the Directors are demonstrating concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by the Company Secretary who, as Head of Group Legal provides the Board with an a commitment to their roles.
update on any legal issues.
Members of the Group Executive Team and the Senior Management Team, where appropriate, are also invited to attend Board meetings to present on specific business issues and proposals.
This way the Board is given the opportunity to meet with the next layers of management and gain a more in-depth understanding of key areas of the business.
All of these topics lead to discussion, debate and challenge amongst the Directors.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information To further strengthen the Groups corporate governance and as result The Senior Independent Director SID is Brian McBride, who is of the increasing scale and complexity of AOs operations, during the available to shareholders if they have concerns that the normal channels year the Board determined that it was appropriate to separate the role of Chairman or Chief Executive Officer have failed to resolve, or for of Chief Operating & Financial Officer and accordingly Mark Higgins which such channels of communication are inappropriate.
The SID was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect from also acts as an internal sounding board for the Chairman and serves 1 August 2015.
On 3 March 2016 the Company announced that Richard as intermediary for the other Directors, with the Chairman, when Rose, Non-Executive Chairman, intended to step down from the necessary.
The role of the SID is considered to be an important check Board at the AGM once a successor had been identified and would and balance in the Groups governance structure.
In accordance with therefore not seek re-election at the Companys AGM on 21 July 2016. the Code, neither the Chairman nor the SID are employed as executives We were pleased to announce that Geoff Cooper will be appointed of the Group.
to the Board with effect from 1 July 2016.
Geoff will become Chairman of the Company following the conclusion of the AGM, subject to Diversity shareholder approval of his re-election.
Further details about these We fully support the aims, objectives and recommendations outlined changes and the work of the Nomination Committee report is in Lord Davies Report Women on Boards and are aware of the need disclosed on pages 50 and 51. to increase the number of women on our Board and in senior positions throughout the Group.
However, we do not consider that it is in the best For information on our procedures concerning the appointment and interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets replacement of Directors, please see the Directors Report on page 70. for gender on the Board and we will continue to make appointments based on merit, against objective criteria to ensure we appoint the best Board meetings and attendance individual for each role.
As at 31 March 2016 across our business there Nine Board meetings were held during the year ended 31 March 2016 were 603 female employees out of a total of 2,294 employees.
There and there are currently nine meetings scheduled for the year ending is one female on the Board and although there are no females on the 31 March 2017.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings take place as Group Executive Team, 13 of our 40 senior managers were women as and when necessary.
The table below summarises the attendance of at this date.
the Directors during the reporting period.
Directors conflicts of interest Director Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless Richard Rose 9 9 that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
This includes potential John Roberts 9 9 conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with Steve Caunce 9 9 another company.
The Companys Articles of Association, which are in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise Mark Higgins 6 6 potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits Brian McBride 9 8 or conditions, as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
Any Chris Hopkinson 9 9 decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or without their Marisa Cassoni 9 9 votes being counted.
In making such a decision, the Directors must act Rudi Lamprecht 9 7 in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Bill Holroyd 3 2 success of the Company.
Mark Higgins was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2015.
Bill Holroyd retired from the Board following the AGM on 21 July 2015.
The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the Director, or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review papers scheduled for discussion at the relevant meetings, giving of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
An Interests Register records them the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments any authorised potential conflicts and will be reviewed by the Board to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
on a regular basis to ensure that the procedure is working effectively.
Division of responsibilities The positions of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not exercised by the same person, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between Richard Rose and John Roberts is clearly established.
As Chairman of the Board, Richard Rose is responsible for its leadership, setting its agenda, monitoring its effectiveness and ensuring good governance.
He facilitates both the contribution of the NonExecutive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Following his appointment as Chairman, Geoff Cooper will assume all such responsibilities.
John Roberts, Steve Caunce and Mark Higgins are together responsible for the day-to-day running of the Group, carrying out our agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Corporate Governance Statement continued Committees of the Board The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf and to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements including the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the DTRs and the Code.
This also allows the Board to operate efficiently and to give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Committee is set out below.
Membership required Minimum number of Committee report Committee Role and terms of reference under terms of reference meetings per year on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on the Groups At least three members Three 53 to 55 financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems, whistleblowing, internal At least two should audit and the independence and effectiveness be independent of the external auditors.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Responsible for all elements of the remuneration At least three members Three 57 to 69 of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, the Company Secretary and the Group At least two should Executive Team.
be independent Non-Executive Directors Nomination Reviews the structure, size and composition At least three members Two 50 and 51 of the Board and its Committees and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
At least one should be an independent Non-Executive Director The full terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
com corporate and from the Company Secretary upon request.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 48
