ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY OLLIE OLIVEIRA, CHAIRMAN THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE HAS BEEN INCREASINGLY FOCUSED ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND I BELIEVE THAT THIS TREND WILL CONTINUE 2016 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Other regular attendees include the Group CEO, CFO, Group Financial NUMBER ATTENDED Controller, Head of Internal Audit, Strategic Planning Manager, Head of Risk and Secretary to the Board.
Ollie Oliveira Chairman from 1 September 2016 4 4 Effective 1 September 2016 Ollie Oliveira became Chairman, effective William Hayes Chairman until 31 August 2016 4 4 1 January 2017 William Hayes rotated off the Committee and Vivianne Jorge Bande 4 4 Blanlot and Francisca Castro joined the Committee.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
All Committee members are independent.
Ollie Oliveira, William Hayes, Jorge Bande and Francisca Castro are all considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2016 FINANCIAL REPORTING RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL Reviewed the year-end and half-year financial reporting, with Conducted detailed reviews with the General Managers of each a focus on the significant accounting issues relating to the ofthe Groups operations, covering the operations key risks.
Reviewed the status of key controls in connection with the Assisted the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, SAP system.
balanced and understandable, and reviewed the long-term viability Reviewed developments in the Groups standard risk management statement contained in the Annual Report.
Monitored the functioning of the new SAP accounting system.
Assisted the Board with its assessment of the Groups key risks and its review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal EXTERNAL AUDIT control processes.
Reviewed and approved the 2016 audit plan, including fees.
COMPLIANCE Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Reviewed whistleblowing incidents during the year, updates to INTERNAL AUDIT the conflict of interest declarations by the Groups employees and Reviewed the key findings from the Internal Audit reviews suppliers, and analysed the Groups relationships with Politically conducted during 2016.
Agreed the scope and areas of focus for the 2017 internal audit Reviewed the Groups policies and procedures relevant to the plan with the Head of Internal Audit, and then approved the final requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act.
Reviewed developments in the Groups standard compliance processes during the year.
88 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What are the main the Committee reviewed the Consideration of the impact FINANCIAL REPORTING Q responsibilities of the key assumptions used in the of the non-renewal of two What are the Committees Committee?
impairment review, including mining leases at the Twin Q main activities in respect copper price forecasts, future Metals project.
Following the The purpose of the Audit and Risk of the Groups financial cost and production levels.
This non-renewal of these licenses Committee is to assist the Board in reporting?
included a number of meetings the Group is undertaking legal meeting its responsibilities relating with both management and the action to protect its position.
We review the year-end Financial to financial reporting and external auditors to review the The Committee has reviewed in Statements and half-yearly financial control.
The Committees main methodologies and data used in detail the current status of the report, and ensure that the key responsibilities cover financial determining key parameters such legal action with the Groups legal accounting policies, estimates reporting, the external audit as the copper price forecasts.
They also reviewed the and judgements applied in those process, internal audit, risk and The Committee considered potential operating and financial financial statements are reasonable.
information provided by the impact of the non-renewal of We also monitor the overall financial external auditors in respect of these leases with the Groups You were appointed reporting process to ensure it is Q their own consensus estimates projects team, including an Chairman of the Audit and robust and well controlled.
This relating to relevant parameters, analysis of the potential impact Risk Committee in September includes ensuring that the Groups and the auditors own calculation on the mine plan and value of the 2016.
What has been your accounting and finance function of an appropriate discount rate.
project of excluding the mineral experience so far, and what is adequately resourced with The Committee also requested resources relating to these do you think will be your appropriate segregation of duties, that management perform a two leases.
This resulted in the main focus during the next that there are appropriate internal number of sensitivity analyses conclusion that no adjustment year?
review processes, that the Groups showing the impact of changes to the carrying value of the Firstly, Id like to thank William accounting policies are appropriate inkey assumptions on the value assets relating to the Twin Metals Hayes for his excellent work in and clearly communicated, and of the operation.
chairing the Committee over the that the Groups accounting and this process the Committee past five years.
During that time the consolidation systems are also agreed that the managements EXTERNAL AUDIT Committee has been increasingly appropriate.
This final area has estimate of the recoverable focused on risk, and I think that this been a particular area of focus for What are the Committees amount of Antucoyas assets was Q trend will continue.
the Committee, as the Group has activities in respect of the reasonable, and therefore the implemented a new SAP accounting external audit process?
I was very pleased that Vivianne level of the impairment provision system, which went live on Blanlot and Francisca Castro was appropriate.
We are responsible for overseeing 1 January 2016.
Weve been closely agreed to join the Committee on Antofagastas relationship with With respect to Alto Maipo, the monitoring the implementation of 1 January 2017.
This has been a PwC, the Groups external Committee members had been the system, and its functioning and valuable addition to the Committees auditor.
Ipersonally have a key receiving along with all other control since the go-live date.
breadth of experience and direct relationship with Jason Directors regular updates in expertise.
It also means that the Burkitt, the lead PwC audit What are your particular respect of the project since the size of the Committee has increased Q partner.
We review and approve responsibilities with respect identification of a significant from three to four members from the scope of the external audit, to the Annual Report?
forecast cost overrun during the start of 2017, which will be the terms of engagement and 2016.
As part of the Committees We assist the Board in its very helpful in dealing with the fees.
The Committee monitors review of the appropriate assessment that the Annual Report significant responsibilities of the the effectiveness of the audit accounting for the Groups is, taken as a whole, fair, balanced Committee.
This also means that process and we are responsible investment in the project they and understandable, and provides we now have members of the Audit for ensuring the independence considered the key terms of the the necessary information to allow and Risk Committee participating of the external auditor.
We Groups agreement to dispose shareholders to assess the Groups on the Projects Committee and also make recommendations of its investment for a nominal position and performance, business the Sustainability and Stakeholder to the Board in respect of the amount and the remaining model and strategy.
As part of this, Management Committee.
This appointment, reappointment or steps required to complete the we use our detailed knowledge of allows close linkage between the removal of the external auditor.
Following this review the financial results and the key overall review of the Groups risks The Committee formally meets the Committee concurred with accounting judgements applied in and risk management processes with PwC without management managements view that a the Financial Statements to ensure by the Audit and Risk Committee, present at least once a year.
full impairment provision was that the tone and content of the with the more specific risks appropriate for the carrying value narrative reporting fairly reflects How long has PwC been the relating to project execution, safety, of the Groups investment.
thefinancial results for the year.
environmental and community Details of the impairment reviews issues considered in detail by We also review the going concern PwC has been our external auditor are set out in Note 4 to the the other committees.
basis adopted in the Financial for two years.
We carried out a Financial Statements.
Statements, as well as the detailed tender process during 2014, which While risk management is The finalisation of the fair long-term viability statement resulted in PwC being appointed.
considered at every meeting, Ihave valueadjustments relating to the contained within the Annual Report.
In line with the relevant regulatory decided to have an additional Zaldvar acquisition: following the guidance, we would expect to meeting each year at which What were the significant acquisition of our 50% interest undertake a tender process in the Committee will focus on Q accounting issues in relation in Zaldvar in December 2015, respect of the external audit at risk management, to reflect the to the Financial Statements during 2016 the Group finalised leastevery ten years.
increasing importance of this area.
considered by the Committee its valuation of the individual Having a larger Committee will help during 2016?
The Committee reviewed the key The main issues considered in detail assumptions and conclusions of by the Committee were: this process.
The impairment provisions recorded in respect of Antucoya and Alto Maipo.
CO. UK 89 ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED mining technical expertise to be INTERNAL AUDIT The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation able to deliver highly effective Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee What are your main activities operating reviews.
Q Responsibilities Order 2014 statement of compliance in relation to Internal Audit?
Internal Audit presents summaries The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the The Committee monitors and of the key findings from the reviews Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year reviews the effectiveness of the conducted during the year to under review.
All Internal Audit The Head of Internal Audit reports reports are distributed to the directly to the Committee and Committee members once they How do you assess the the effectiveness of the meets with us without management have been finalised.
Q effectiveness of the external co-ordination between the present at least once a year.
The Committee monitors the audit process?
UKand Chilean audit teams: The Committee reviews and interaction between Internal Audit the effectiveness of the We considered the following approves Internal Audits plan of and PwC, to ensure an efficient interaction and relationship factors as part of our review of the work for the coming year, including relationship between the internal between the Groups effectiveness of the external audit the departments budget, head and external audit processes, management and the process during the year: count and other resources.
We avoiding duplication of work, and external auditor: make sure there are sufficient the appropriateness of the ensuring the effective and timely feedback from management resources in the plan to allow for proposed audit plan, the sharing of findings.
in respect of the effectiveness special reviews which may be significant risk areas and of the audit processes for the required during the year.
areasof focus, and the effective RISK MANAGEMENT AND individual operations and the performance of the audit: We also monitor the resources INTERNAL CONTROL Group overall: and the technical skills and industry available to the Internal Audit team the review of reports from the What are the Committees experience of the audit to make sure it has the right mix of Q external auditor detailing its responsibilities for risk engagement partner and the skills and experience.
Internal Audit own internal quality control management and internal wider audit team: utilises a mix of permanent team procedures, as well as its control?
members, temporary secondees the quality of the external annualtransparency report.
from elsewhere in the Group and auditors reporting to We play an important role in third parties, particularly for areas In light of this assessment, the the Committee: assisting the Board with its such as IT-related reviews.
Were Committee considers it appropriate responsibilities in respect of particularly keen on ensuring that PwC be re-appointed as risk management and related the team has the right level of external auditor.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Groups principal risks, as well as An updated policy has been applied from for maintaining control systems.
INDEPENDENCE AND 1 January 2017, reflecting the implementation of the Our internal control systems EU Audit Regulation and Directive.
The updated policy OBJECTIVITY OF THE are designed to identify and increases the scope of prohibited non-audit services, manage, rather than eliminate, EXTERNAL AUDITOR particularly in respect of tax services.
The policy the risk of failure to achieve our also requires prior approval by the Committee for all The Committee monitors the external auditors business objectives, and can non-audit services, other than services which are independence and objectivity.
The Company only provide reasonable, and considered to be clearly trivial, which the Committee has a policy in place that aims to safeguard the not absolute, assurance against has defined as being services with fees of not more independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
This includes measures in respect of the potential Committee assists the Board with employment of former auditors, the types of nonits assessment ofthe Groups A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is audit services that the external auditor may and may principal risks and its review disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
not provide to the Group, and the approval process in of the effectiveness of the risk TheCompanys external auditor, PwC, has provided respect of permitted non-audit services.
non-audit services excluding audit-related services which amounted to $0.2 million, or 11% of the fees The policy in place during 2016 specifies the What were the Committees for audit and audit-related services.
This mainly non-audit services that the external auditor is not Q main activities during the related to assurance services in respect of the permitted to provide: these include Internal Audit year relating to risk?
Groups sustainability reporting and tax services.
outsourcing, valuation services that would be used The risk management function Ingeneral, where the external auditor is selected for financial accounting purposes, preparation of the presents to the Committee several toprovide non-audit services it is because they are Groups accounting records or financial statements, times during the year, covering considered to have specific expertise or experience and financial information systems design and developments in the Groups risk in the relevant area which means they are the most implementation.
Under the policy in place during management processes and Groupsuitable provider of those services.
The Committee 2016, certain permitted non-audit services always level strategic risks.
has reviewed the level of these services in the course required prior approval by the Committee, whereas of the year and is confident that the objectivity and certain other non-audit services required prior The General Managers of the independence of the auditor is not impaired by reason approval by the Committee when the related fees Groups operations also present to of such non-audit work.
were above specified levels $50,000 for a single the Committee at least once a year, engagement or a cumulative annual amount of The external auditor provides a report to the covering their assessment of their $400,000.
In addition to this approval process Committee at least once a year, setting out its operations key potential risks and for specific non-audit services, the Audit and firms policies and procedures for maintaining any significant materialised risks.
Risk Committee monitors the total level of nonits independence.
The analysis of key risks includes audit services provided by the external auditor to an assessment of the significance The Committee considers that PwC remained ensure that neither the auditors objectivity nor its of the risks based on the probability independent and objective throughout 2016. independence is put at risk.
of the risk materialising and the potential economic impact of the 90 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS risk, as well as an evaluation of the The Risk Management function Groups risk management and performance of the role.
The Crime quality of the controls in place in also presents directly to the internal control systems.
The Prevention Officer is currently respect of those specific risks.
We Board, providing updates of review covers all material controls, Alfredo Atucha, the Vice President also look at whether those risks the analysis of the Groups key including financial, operating and of Finance and Administration.
have been increasing or decreasing risks and relevant developments compliance controls.
No significant The Committee receives reports in significance.
The General in the risk management and failures or weaknesses were from the Risk Management Managers present their forecast compliance processes.
However, identified as a result of this review function in respect of the Groups of any expected change in key we try to ensure that the review during 2016.
Crime Prevention Model, in risks over the coming 12 months.
of risk by the Board is not accordance with Chilean antiAs I explained earlier, from If there is a specific issue at one compartmentalised into isolated corruption legislation.
the start of 2017 we now have ofthe operations that requires more sessions, but permeates everything members of the Audit and Risk What were your main detailed understanding, we will that the Board considers.
Sothe Committee participating on the Q activities during the year ask the General Manager to attend operating update which the Projects Committee and the inrespect of compliance?
the next meeting to discuss that CEOprovides to the Board at each Sustainability and Stakeholder issue.
I find this direct interaction meeting covers any significant We reviewed the Groups Management Committee, which between the Committee and the materialised risks, and all whistleblowing arrangements, allows close co-ordination between General Managers extremely proposals which are presented to which enable staff and contractors these committees.
valuable not only in terms of the the Board incorporate an analysis to raise concerns in confidence direct insight into each operation of the principal risks relevant to about possible improprieties COMPLIANCE it affords the Committee, but the proposal.
or non-compliance with the also in allowing us to convey the Groups Code of Ethics.
This is These processes have assisted What are the Committees importance we attach to strong risk Q an important facility to allow any the Board in carrying out a robust responsibilities relating to management processes.
potential issues to be raised.
We assessment of the principal risks compliance?
received regular reports on any The Committee also reviewed the facing the Company, including those We ensure that appropriate reported whistleblowing incidents, implementation of the Groups that would threaten its business compliance policies and procedures which detail the number and type standard risk management model, future performance, are observed throughout the Group.
of incidents, along with details processes at Zaldvar during solvency or liquidity, and to assess The Groups Risk Management of the most significant ones the year.
the acceptability of the level of function makes regular and the actions resulting from risks that arise from the Groups presentations to the Committee How does the Committee their investigation.
operations and development covering developments in the Q interact with the Board and activities.
Each year the Board, The Committee reviewed updates to Groups compliance processes and other Committees?
with the support of the Committee, the conflict of interest declarations significant compliance issues.
reviews the effectiveness of the I report to the Board following each by the Groups employees and Chilean law requires the Group to Committee meeting, summarising suppliers, including details of the appoint a Crime Prevention Officer.
the main matters reviewed by the types of potential conflicts being Further information relating to The Committee is responsible Committee.
We also reviewed the the Groups key risks and risk for making recommendations allow Directors to understand the analysis of suppliers who are management processes are to the Board in respect of main issues being considered by the Politically Exposed Persons, ie given in the Risk Management the appointment of the Crime Committee, and, when relevant, to individuals who hold prominent section of the Strategic Report Prevention Officer, and generally discuss these matters in more detail public positions.
on pages 20 to 27. monitors and oversees the with the Board.
We also reviewed the Groups policies and procedures relevant to the requirements of the UK Modern AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE, BOARD AND Slavery Act.
RISK MANAGEMENT FUNCTION INTERACTION As with the risk management processes noted above, we reviewed the implementation of The Risk Management BOARD the Groups standard compliance Function provides regular Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee processes at Zaldvar during presentations covering reports to the Board following each Committee the year.
changes in the Groups key meeting, allowing a wider discussion of the risk risks, major materialised and compliance issues reviewed in detail by risks, and updates on the the Committee OLLIE OLIVEIRA risk management and CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT compliance processes AND RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE RISK MANAGEMENT The Committee supports the Board in its FUNCTION review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk There are detailed management and internal control systems presentations at each Committee meeting covering GENERAL MANAGERS the risk management OF THE OPERATIONS process, details of significant whistleblowing reports, The General Managers give detailed and updates in respect presentations to the Committee at least once a of compliance processes year including each operations key risks and and activities materialised risks ANTOFAGASTA.
