STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INPUTS KEY RELATIONSHIPS The Group cannot run its business in isolation.
The business model is underpinned by relationships with stakeholders at local, regional, national and international level, which contribute to its long-term success.
The Group forms long-term partnerships with some suppliers, whileothers are managed with a more short-term focus based onmarketcompetition.
Across the industry neither copper producers nor consumers tend CUSTOMERS STRUCTURE to make annual commitments for OF SALES 100% of their respective production CONTRACTS or needs, and producers normally retain a portion to be sold on the spot market throughout the year.
Most copper and molybdenum Typically, the Groups sales sales are made under annual contracts set out the annual The prices realised by the Group contracts or using longer-term volumes to be supplied and the during a specific period will differ framework agreements with sales main terms for the sale of each from the average market price for volumes agreed for the coming payable metal, with the pricing of that period.
Gold is contained in the copper the contained copper in line with line with industry practice, sales concentrates and so is part of LME prices.
agreements generally provide for copper concentrates sales.
provisional pricing at the time of In the case of concentrate, a shipment, with final pricing based The majority of sales are to deduction is made from LME prices on the average market price for industrial customers who refine to reflect TC RCs the smelting the month in which settlement or further process the copper and refining costs necessary to takes place.
smelters, in the case of copper process the concentrate into copper concentrate production, and copper cathodes.
These TC RCs are typically For copper concentrate, sales fabricators in the case of cathode determined annually and in line remain open until settlement occurs, production.
The Groups marketing with terms negotiated across the on average three to five months team builds long-term relationships concentrate market.
Settlement with these core customers, while for the gold and silver content in A significant proportion of the also maintaining relationships with copper concentrate sales occurs Groups copper cathode sales are trading companies that participate in approximately one month from made under annual contracts, shorter-term sales.
Copper cathode sales priced in line with LME prices.
remain open for an average of one Over 80% of the Groups mining In copper cathode transactions month from shipment.
Settlement sales are under contracts of a year a premium, or in some cases for copper in concentrate sales is or longer and metals sales pricing a discount, on the LME price is later than for copper cathode sales is generally based on prevailing negotiated to reflect differences as further refinement of copper in market prices.
in quality, logistics and financing concentrate is needed before sale.
compared with the metal Molybdenum sales generally remain exchanges standard copper open for two or three months contract specifications.
Similarly, the Groups molybdenum contracts are made under longterm framework agreements, with pricing usually based on Platts average prices.
CO. UK 35 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED KEY RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED During 2016 the Group successfully implemented a functional SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES CONTRACTORS simplification programme to: 1.
Focus the operations on core business activities safety, production volume and cost and centralise all supporting Suppliers play a critical role in the The Group employs approximately The number of contractors working transactional activities.
Groups ability to operate, providing 5,400 people, who work alongside for Antofagasta varies according a large range of products and approximately 13,100 contractors to business needs and the level of 2.
Standardise processes and services from grinding media to at its corporate offices, operations construction activity.
foster best practice across catering at the mine sites.
Mining operations are all operations by sharing and As at 31 December 2016, there inherently risky and ensuring the leveraging the potential of SAP.
The Group currently works with were approximately 13,100 safety and health of every employee over 3,500 suppliers, focusing on 3.
Increase the efficiency of contractors working at the Groups is an absolute priority.
It is an the top suppliers in each category functional processes and operations and projects.
This was ethical obligation and is central to to ensure the most cost-effective structures with a core team some 5% lower than the same the Groups strategic objectives.
and efficient solutions across responsible for these activities time last year, principally due to all operations.
As previously The Group has created a variety of across all operations.
the completion of construction mentioned, the corporate initiatives over the last few years at Antucoya.
Reduce costs as a consequence procurement team has consolidated to secure and develop talent.
In of simplified functional models Contractors are vital to mining procurement practices across all particular, the Group seeks to and structures.
operations and the Group aims to operations and projects.
The team attract young professionals into the build long-term relationships with The programme covered Finance, has also reduced the number of mining industry and complement contractor companies based on the Supply, IT, Human Resources, suppliers in order to extract greater their work experience with highest standards.
Safety and health Legal, Internal and External Affairs benefits from selected suppliers workshops and seminars across targets are included in performance functions, eliminating approximately over a long period of time.
agreements and compliance with 100 positions across the Group and The Group openly encourages Relationships with trade unions safety and human rights laws, achieving annual savings of around suppliers to raise any issues or are based on mutual respect and labour regulations and the Groups $10 million.
concerns they may have about their transparency.
This helps the Group own safety and health standards are relationship with the Company, their to retain employees and avoid See page 54 for more assessed regularly by internal and information contracts or the workforce.
labour disputes, contributing to external audits.
greater productivity and business All suppliers are audited routinely The minimum wage paid by efficiency.
During 2016, the Group with regard to the workforce, to Antofagasta to contractor renewed labour agreements with ensure that they are complying with employees is 55% higher than employees at Antucoya and with the law and the Groups stringent that required by Chilean law and the supervisors at Los Pelambres policies and procedures.
The Group contractor staff have access to the and Zaldvar.
In the Chilean mining also monitors suppliers financial same mine camp facilities as the industry labour agreements are health and ensures bank guarantees Groups own employees.
negotiated with each union every are in place when necessary.
three years and the next of the See page 54 for Groups negotiations will take more information place during 2017.
36 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INPUTS LOCAL COMMUNITIES It is crucial to have strong relationships with local communities in the areas where the Group operates, as without mutual trust, co-operation and understanding it is not possible to run a mine successfully.
Having clear social policies and regular contact with community members helps to manage potential conflicts and maintains the Groups social licence to operate.
During 2014, Los Pelambres adopted a new community engagement initiative called Somos Choapa We Are Choapa, after the region in which it is located.
In 2015, the Group signed a framework agreement with three municipalities under the initiative, and has begun assessing a portfolio of projects for sustainable development in the region.
GOVERNMENT OTHER LOCAL During 2016, the Group resolved RELATIONS STAKEHOLDERS long-standing legal issues with the Caimanes community, mainly related to the El Mauro tailings dam.
This was achieved by open dialogue Political developments and changes Good relationships with other with the community, prioritising to legislation or regulations can stakeholders near the Groups their needs and clarifying the affect business, whether in operations and projects, such as Companys commitments.
The Chile, the UK, or other countries the local authorities, local media dialogue was monitored by the where the Group has operations, and others, are fundamental to the Chilean chapter of Transparency development projects or smooth operation and future growth International to ensure the openness exploration activities.
Each of the Groups and fairness of the process.
operations has a manager who The Group monitors new and oversees these relationships.
proposed legislation in order to More information on pages 54 and 55. anticipate, mitigate or reduce possible effects and ensure it complies with all legal and regulatory obligations.
It works with industry bodies to engage with governments on public policy, laws, regulations and procedures that may affect its business, including such issues as climate change and energy security.
The Group assesses political risk when evaluating potential projects, including existing foreign investment agreements.
It also utilises internal and external legal expertise to ensure its rights are protected.
See page 58 for more information ANTOFAGASTA.
