Corporate Governance Statement Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance Report for 2016, which explains the corporate governance arrangements Ascential has in place, and includes reports from each of our three Board Committees.
Introduction Our Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is responsible for ensuring that these standards, alongside the Companys values and behaviours are consistently applied throughout the Group as they underpin the integrity of the Groups operations, and deliver and preserve shareholder value.
This statement includes matters required to be disclosed by the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website at frc.
A new version of the Code was introduced in September 2016, and the revised provisions will apply to the Company for the 2017 financial year.
The Board will therefore report on its implementation of the new version of the Code in next years Annual Report.
Compliance with the Code As at the date of this Report, the Company is in full compliance with the provisions of the Code.
At the time of Admission, the Company did not comply with all of the Codes provisions.
We did not comply with the provisions surrounding the composition of the Board and its Committees for the whole of the period under review, which is explained in more detail below.
However, we committed to take the necessary steps to fully comply within 12 months of joining the FTSE 250 Index, and we achieved that goal soon after Admission.
The Board is satisfied that the non-compliance with two provisions for part of the period did not impede its effectiveness, nor did it create any risk to shareholders.
No individual dominated its decision-taking, no undue reliance was placed on particular individuals and there was sufficient challenge of Executive Directors in Board or relevant Committee meetings.
The Board and relevant Committees operated effectively throughout the whole period: sound governance procedures were observed during the period and business objectives were met.
Code provision Detail Explanation of non-compliance A.
4.1 Until 12 May 2016, the Board did not The Company appointed its Senior Independent Non-Executive appoint one of the Independent NonDirector on 12 May 2016, this being Rita Clifton, bringing the Executive Directors to be the Senior Board into full compliance with this provision from that date.
1.2 Until 12 May 2016, less than half of the The Company became a member of the FTSE 250 Index during the Board were Independent Non-Executive reporting period.
For FTSE 250 Index companies, at least half of Directors.
the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company appointed Rita Clifton on 12 May 2016, bringing the Board into full compliance with this provision from that date.
Furthermore, the two Non-Executive Directors who were not considered to be independent Tom Hall and David Pemsel resigned on 5 September 2016.
Directors We appointed four new Independent Non-Executive Directors during the year.
There was a rigorous process for the appointments as described in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 67.
Each Director brings their particular perspective to a discussion, drawn from a range of backgrounds in different industries and roles over many years.
They bring constructive challenge, scrutiny and analysis of the Boards agenda with their significant financial and commercial experience.
The Board share a common purpose of promoting the overall success of the Group, with a clear and unified vision of how it supports the executive team in their implementation of the Groups strategy whilst discharging governance and supervisory responsibilities.
All Directors will offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
54 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board evaluation As well as ensuring that the Board includes the appropriate balance between Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors, we also recognise the need to be effective as a Board.
Even though the Board was only constituted in 2016, the Directors strongly believed that a full evaluation process should be carried out in its first year to ensure the Boards proper performance from the outset.
To that end, a thorough, externally facilitated evaluation process was carried out by an independent consultancy during the year, which is described on page 59.
Board responsibilities The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to its Committees.
This schedule sets out key aspects of the affairs of the Company which the Board does not delegate and is reviewed on an annual basis.
This includes: receiving regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer on the Groups operations: reviewing regular financial information on the Groups performance: reviewing the Groups strategy and operating priorities, providing constructive challenge as necessary: agreeing the 2017 business plan and budget: evaluating the Groups portfolio acquisitions, divestitures and other corporate transactions: overseeing the Groups governance and shareholder engagement: approving the dividend policy and capital structure: reviewing the full year and half year financial results: reviewing stakeholder engagement, and investor communications strategy: conducting a robust review of risks and agreeing a risk appetite: approving the Viability Statement: and completing the Board evaluation.
The management of the day-to-day running of the Group, including the development and implementation of strategy, monitoring the operating and financial performance and the prioritisation and allocation of resources, has been delegated to executive management.
Committees of the Board The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf, allowing the Board to operate efficiently and to give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Committee is set out in the table below and the full terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website at ascential.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Scott Forbes Chair Paul Harrison Chair Judy Vezmar Chair Members Judy Vezmar Gillian Kent Paul Harrison Rita Clifton Rita Clifton Gillian Kent Gillian Kent until 12 May 2016 Judy Vezmar until 12 May 2016 Role and terms Reviews the structure, size and Reviews and reports to the Board Responsible for all elements of reference composition of the Board and its on the Groups financial reporting, of the remuneration of the Committees.
internal control, whistleblowing, Executive Directors and the internal audit and the Chairman, and oversight of Makes appropriate independence and effectiveness the remuneration of the senior recommendations to the Board.
Read more about each Committees activities on pages 65 to 68.
55 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board and Committee meetings and attendance Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Number of scheduled meetings held 7 3 4 2 Director Scott Forbes 7 7 n a n a 2 2 Duncan Painter 7 7 n a n a n a Mandy Gradden 7 7 n a n a n a Paul Harrison 7 7 3 3 3 4 1 n a Judy Vezmar 7 7 1 1 4 4 2 2 Gillian Kent 6 7 2 1 3 2 4 4 1 1 Rita Clifton 5 6 3 2 2 n a 1 1 David Pemsel 2 5 n a n a n a Tom Hall 4 5 n a n a n a The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
1 Paul Harrison was unable to attend a meeting due to a commitment arranged prior to his appointment.
2 Gillian Kent was unable to attend meetings due to commitments arranged prior to her appointment.
3 Rita Clifton was unable to attend a meeting due to a commitment arranged prior to her appointment.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting, he or she is provided with the same information as the other Directors in advance of the meeting and given the opportunity to express views, which will then be shared at the meeting.
Board roles There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman, Scott Forbes, and the Chief Executive Officer, Duncan Painter, which have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing.
Rita Clifton was appointed the Senior Independent Director on joining the Board on 12 May 2016.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Louise Meads, who was appointed on 6 February 2017.
Prior to that, Mandy Gradden was the Company Secretary.
Board composition At the date of this report, the Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 52 and 53.
The Davies Review on gender diversity, led by Lord Davies of Abersoch, recommended increasing the voluntary target for womens representation on boards of FTSE 350 companies to a minimum of 33%.
As the Board is currently constituted, the Company exceeds this recommendation at 57%.
56 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board and its Committees have an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Their key responsibilities are: Chairman Leadership of the Board Ensuring the Boards effectiveness by creating and managing constructive relationships between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors Promoting debate and constructive challenge by the Non-Executive Directors Ensuring ongoing and effective communication between the Board and its key shareholders Setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussions Chief Executive Responsibility for the operational results of the Group Officer Leading the development of the Groups objectives and strategic direction Ensuring that the Groups business and strategic plans are successfully executed Implementing decisions of the Board and its Committees Reviewing the Groups structure on an ongoing basis and recommending changes when appropriate Ensuring effective and ongoing communication with shareholders Building and managing the senior management team who have day to day management of the businesses within the Group Support the Chief Executive Officer in developing and implementing strategy Chief Financial Officer Overseeing the financial performance of the Group Leading the development of the finance function to provide insightful financial analysis that informs key decision making Leading treasury activities Leading investor relations activities and communication with investors alongside the Chief Executive Officer Working with the Chief Executive Officer to develop budgets and medium-term plans to support the agreed strategy Non-Executive Scrutinising and monitoring the performance of management Directors Constructively challenging the Executive Directors Bringing independence and a different perspective to the Board Supporting the management to deliver the Groups strategy Overseeing the integrity of financial information, financial controls and systems of risk management Senior Independent Meeting with the other Non-Executive Directors annually without the Chairman present Non-Executive Supporting the Chairman and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and intermediary for other Director Directors when necessary Available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels through the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Directors have failed to resolve or would be inappropriate Company Secretary Support to the Chairman Assists the Board and its Committees to function effectively Available to all Directors to provide governance advice and assistance Ensures the Board receives sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear information Ensures compliance with the Boards procedures, and with applicable rules and regulation Facilitates induction and development programmes Acts as Secretary to the Board and all Committees 57 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board balance and independence The Board is comfortable that these appointments do not From 12 May 2016 to the date of this report, the Company has impact on the time that any Director devotes to the Company.
been compliant with the Code provision that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Independent Conflicts of interest Non-Executive Directors.
The Company became compliant In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, with this provision on 12 May 2016 with Rita Cliftons the Board has a process for Directors to declare conflicts appointment to the Board.
of interests and for such conflicts to be considered for authorisation.
All of the current Non-Executive Directors Paul Harrison, Judy Vezmar, Gillian Kent and Rita Clifton, are considered to be Letters of appointment independent in character and judgement, and free of any The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have letters business or other relationship which could materially influence of appointment which are available for inspection at the their judgement.
Scott Forbes was considered to be registered office of the Company during normal business hours independent on appointment.
and at the place of the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
The Chairmans fees and the Non-Executive Directors fees are disclosed on page 77, and they received no additional Induction and development remuneration from the Company since the date of IPO.
Each Non-Executive Director appointed to the Board was provided with information on the Groups structure, business The Company has a relationship agreement the Relationship sectors and operations and policies to develop each Directors Agreement in place with its former principal shareholders, understanding of the Group and key issues that the Group funds advised by Apax the Apax Shareholders and Guardian faces.
They also met with senior executives in the Company.
While the Relationship Agreement is in force, the Apax Shareholders and GMG were entitled to The Board is updated by the Group Legal Director on relevant appoint a Non-Executive Director each, providing they and material changes to laws and regulations.
The Board also any of their respective associates, when taken together hold receives reports from the Company Secretary on current legal voting rights over 15% or more of the Companys issued share and governance issues.
In addition, the Board meets once a capital: and information rights providing they and any of their year at one of the Groups main events operational sites so respective associates, when taken together hold voting rights that it has the opportunity to meet employees across the over 5% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
In 2016 the Board met at Cannes two Non-Executive Directors appointed by, and representing, Lions Festival and it received presentations from the senior the Apax Shareholders and GMG respectively, were Tom Hall Lions employees.
The Board also attended events at the and David Pemsel, and they were therefore not considered Festival and met with key customers.
The Board held an offsite strategy day in September 2016 On 1 September 2016, the Apax Shareholders and GMG where it met with the senior management team.
It discussed disposed of 80,000,000 ordinary shares in Ascential through a and approved the evolution of the Groups brands, the private placing.
Tom Hall and David Pemsel resigned from the sustainability of the Groups strategy and organisation, Board with effect from 5 September 2016. and governance.
Appointments to the Board Information and support available to Directors Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for an initial Full access to all relevant information is given to the Board.
For term of up to three years.
Non-Executive Directors are Board meetings, this consists of an agenda, minutes of previous typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the meetings and a comprehensive set of papers including regular Board may invite the Director to serve for an additional period.
business reports, provided to Directors in a timely manner in Please refer to the Report of the Nomination Committee on advance of meetings.
page 67 for more information on the appointment process.
All the Directors have the opportunity to contribute External directorships independent challenge and rigour by voicing their concerns.
Any external appointments or other significant commitments Board decisions are noted in the minutes.
Directors are of the Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
entitled to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, Mandy Gradden is a non-executive director of SDL plc, a global where considered necessary.
content management and language translation software and services company, and Duncan Painter is a director of the Election of Directors Professional Publishers Association Limited, the publishing The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill industry body which promotes companies involved in the a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director production of media in the UK.
During the year, Scott Forbes so appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next was appointed as a non-executive director of Travelport AGM and shall then be eligible for election by the shareholders.
Gillian Kent was appointed chairman of No Agent, and Duncan Painter was appointed a non-executive adviser to the Board of Investis Limited and ThoughtRiver Limited.
58 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board evaluation and effectiveness Institutional shareholders and analysts have regular contact A formal external evaluation of the Board, its Committees and with the Executive Directors.
All shareholders are kept individual Directors has taken place during the year, which informed of significant developments by announcements was facilitated by Echelon Compensation Partners, Inc.
This and other publications on the Companys website included the completion of a detailed questionnaire by each of ascential.
Care is exercised to ensure that any the Directors, covering the Boards role, knowledge and skills, price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, Board meetings and information flows, Board composition, institutional and private, at the same time, in accordance with succession planning, risk management, relations with the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations.
Questions shareholders and each of the Board Committees.
The results from individual shareholders are generally dealt with by the were reviewed by the Board in December 2016.
In addition, an Executive Directors.
assessment of the Chairmans performance was carried out, and feedback was provided to him individually as well as The Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share the Board.
price, trading activity and movements in institutional investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided with current analyst Risk management opinions, forecasts and feedback from its joint corporate The Company does not have a separate Risk Committee: the brokers, Goldman Sachs International and Numis Securities Board is collectively responsible for determining the nature and Limited, on the views of institutional investors on a nonextent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its attributed and attributed basis.
Any major shareholders strategic objectives.
The processes in place for assessment, concerns are communicated to the Board by the management and monitoring of risks are described in a Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director, Rita Clifton, and other Internal control framework Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and shareholders and are offered the opportunity to attend maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it meetings with major shareholders.
Arrangements can be made receives regular reports identifying, evaluating and managing to meet with them through the Company Secretary.
significant risks within the business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk External auditors of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only The Independent Auditors Report is set out on pages 83 to 86. reasonable and not absolute assurance against material We recommend to shareholders that KPMG LLP be appointed misstatement or loss.
as auditors to the Company and the Group at the Companys inaugural Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports received from management and external Annual General Meeting AGM auditors.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee can The AGM of the Company will take place at 11.00 am on be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 65 to 11 May 2017 at Coworth Park Hotel, Blacknest Road, Ascot, 66.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has carried Berkshire SL5 7SE, United Kingdom.
All shareholders have out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, controls during the year ended 31 December 2016 and for the at the AGM.
period up to the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report.
The Board All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the confirms that no significant weaknesses or failings were AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any identified as a result of the review of effectiveness.
At the meeting itself, voting on all the proposed resolutions is conducted on a poll rather than Relations with shareholders a show of hands, in line with recommended best practice.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Company gives formal presentations All Directors will be in attendance at the AGM and available to of the full year and interim results as well as meeting with answer shareholders questions.
We look forward to meeting individual investors.
During the year, the Company has directly with our shareholders to hear their views and answer the engaged with over 100 institutional investors either face-toquestions about the Group and its business.
face, via telephone, video-conferencing, or at investor conferences and roadshows in the UK and overseas.
The Notice of the AGM can be found in a separate booklet which is being mailed out at the same time as this report and is There is also an ongoing investor relations programme of available on the Companys website.
The Notice of the AGM meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and sets out the business of the meeting and an explanatory note analysts and conferences, covering a wide range of issues on all resolutions.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect within the constraints of publicly available information, of each substantive issue.
Results of resolutions proposed at including strategy, performance and governance.
The Company the AGM will be published on the Companys website holds an annual Capital Markets Day.
In 2016, it was held in ascential.
London in November, giving shareholders the opportunity to meet with the senior management team, and to gain a more in-depth understanding of one area of the Groups business.
