STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, Board effectiveness The Nomination Committee oversaw a formal, externally led I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Nomination evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual Directors Committee for 2016. during the year.
The results were very positive, especially when considered in the context of the Boards relatively recent Role of the Committee and independence formation and confirmed that the Board has broad skills and Responsibilities a mix of backgrounds and that its members challenge The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the management constructively.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the size, structure and composition of the Board and Committees of the The Committees policy towards Board appointments Board.
It considers retirements and appointments of additional The most important priority of the Committee has been, and and replacement Directors and Committee members and will will continue to be, ensuring that members of the Board should make appropriate recommendations to the Board on such collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and matters falling within its competency.
The Nomination industry knowledge, and business and other experience, Committee also assists the Board in the consideration and necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
The development of appropriate corporate governance principles.
Committee takes account of a variety of factors before recommending any new appointments to the Board, including Independence relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge The Code recommends that a majority of the members of and diversity.
a FTSE 350 nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors and that the chairman of the board Ascential endeavours to achieve appropriate diversity, or an independent non-executive director should chair the including gender diversity, throughout the Company and committee.
I am pleased to report that the Nomination concurs with the recommendations of Lord Davies review.
Committee complies with these requirements and invite you It brings me great pleasure to report that we have exceeded to consider its terms of reference which can be found on our the recommended target of 25% female representation on our website: ascential.
Board, as well as the higher target of one-third recommended by the Hampton-Alexander review in November 2016.
Since Progress during the year four of our seven Board members are female, female In our first year as a listed company and a member of the representation is 57%.
These appointments were made based FTSE 250, the Committee met twice.
The key focuses were: on merit, against objective criteria, to ensure we appointed the best individual for each role.
Board appointments It successfully identified and nominated Rita Clifton as the The Committee will build on the positive feedback and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, meaning our suggestions from the Board effectiveness review as it Board composition and Committee membership is in full progresses with its objectives in 2017.
It will also continue to compliance with the provisions of the Code.
focus on the Groups succession plan and talent development to energise the senior management.
An external executive recruitment consultant, Korn Ferry with whom the Group has no other relationship, was engaged I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the to assist with the identification of suitable candidates.
comprehensive candidate search brief was agreed, including the required industry and public company skills, knowledge Scott Forbes and experience required for the appointment of the Senior Chairman of the Nomination Committee Independent Non-Executive Director.
The shortlisted 24 February 2017 candidates each met with members of the Board on a one-onone basis before the Committee made its recommendation of the preferred candidate to the Board.
Paul Harrison, Gillian Kent and Judy Vezmar were appointed Independent Non-Executive Directors prior to Admission and so the process for their appointment was led by the Chairman rather than the Nomination Committee.
Organisation and succession planning The Committee also carried out an extensive organisation and succession planning review, covering the Chairman, members of the Board, Executive Directors and the senior management team.
Various actions are being taken to ensure that robust plans continue to be in place for the year ahead.
To assist the Committee achieve its objectives, the Chief Executive Officer and the People Director were invited to give presentations to the Nomination Committee.
