STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Annual Report and Accounts The Committee has assessed the Annual Report and Accounts, I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Audit Committee to consider whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and for 2016. understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Overview model and strategy, as required by the Code.
In performing this The Audit Committee helps the Board ensure sound assessment, it has taken into account the disclosure and governance.
It has specific responsibility for oversight of prominence of items discussed during the year by the Board internal controls and financial management, review of financial and by the Committee including, but not limited to, significant reporting and especially the key judgements, estimates and judgements and issues in relation to the financial statements, issues involved, assessing the Groups long term resilience, and and also the processes by which management have gained oversight of the relationship with external auditor.
assurance that Annual Report disclosures are appropriate.
Based on this assessment, the Committee has advised the Responsibilities Board that, in its view, the Annual Report and Accounts meets The Committees full terms of reference are available on the the Code requirements.
The main responsibilities are to: Financial reporting To meet its responsibilities for financial reporting, during the review the content of the Companys Annual Report and course of the year the Committee reviews reports from both Accounts and advise the Board on whether, taken as a management and the external auditor on the definition of, and whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides compliance with, critical accounting policies, on developments the information necessary for shareholders to assess the in accounting standards and regulatory reporting requirements, Companys position and performance, business model and and on key risks and matters of judgement in relation to strategy: financial reporting.
The Committee routinely considers the review and assess accounting principles, policies, practices, appropriateness of accounting practices in respect of revenue and judgements and financial statement presentations, recognition, capitalisation of development costs, and reviewing and challenging management where necessary: exceptional items.
monitor the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting process and the integrity of the financial statements of the The Committee considers the following issues to be the most Company, including its annual and half year reports, significant matters of judgement in relation to the Annual preliminary results announcement, dividend proposal and Report and Accounts: any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance: Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups Goodwill and acquired intangible assets are material items internal financial controls and internal control and risk in the Groups balance sheet.
The carrying value is initially management systems, and the policies and overall process assessed at the date of acquisition with reference to expected for identifying and assessing business risks and managing future performance of the acquired business.
Assets held for their impact on the Company and the Group: continued use are subsequently reassessed at least annually, monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal based on updated forecasts of business performance.
Assets audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk held for resale are assessed based on prudent forecasts of sale management system: and proceeds net of disposal costs.
The Committee reviewed oversee the relationship with the external auditor, to assess managements analysis and underlying assumptions, and were the independence of the external auditor, and to assess the satisfied with the conclusions which demonstrated that no effectiveness of the audit process.
impairment or revision to useful economic life is needed.
However, if the results of operations in a future period are Membership and meetings adverse to the forecasts used for impairment testing or in the Members of the Committee and their attendance at case of assets held for sale, actual sale proceeds are lower than Committee meetings in the period are set out on page 56. forecast, an impairment may be triggered at that point, or a reduction in useful economic life may be required.
The Board is satisfied that Paul Harrison has recent and relevant financial experience and is well qualified to serve Acquisition accounting as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Paul is a qualified Acquired businesses give rise to material assets and liabilities accountant and is the current CFO of Just Eat plc.
He was at the point of acquisition, that are based on estimates and the former CFO of Wandisco plc and The Sage Group plc.
Goodwill and intangible Both Rita Clifton and Gillian Kent have also sat on several assets are based on expected future cashflows discounted to audit committees.
Often, significant elements of consideration are deferred, contingent on future performance, and may be The Committee met on three occasions during the year.
The subject to other conditions such as continued employment of Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The CEO, key management personnel.
Significant judgement is involved CFO, and the Director of Financial Control regularly attend, in assessing the appropriate forecast, and selecting the as do representatives of the external auditor.
Other staff appropriate discount rates.
The Committee reviewed the members are invited to attend when the Committee considers acquisition accounting calculations and underlying topics on which they have specialist skills and knowledge, such management estimates and assumptions in the case of One 65 as in relation to taxation or IT security.
The Committee also has Click Retail which was bought during the year, and in respect to regular private meetings with the CFO and with the external acquisitions in the earlier years it reviewed the calculations in auditor at which management are not present.
Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Report of the Audit Committee continued respect of deferred consideration and acquisition-related cyber security procedures: deferred remuneration in light of changes in forecast, in order legal regulatory compliance update covering Anti-Bribery, to ensure these were appropriate.
Modern Slavery Act, and General Data Protection Regulations: However, if the future results of these businesses differ from corporate Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing: the forecasts used for these calculations, there may be a review of tax risks and compliance issues: material change in the value of these deferred liabilities.
treasury policy review: and the decision to establish an independent internal Value of recoverable tax losses audit function.
The Group recognises 17.4m of tax losses expected to be utilised in respect of its US businesses.
This valuation is highly External audit sensitive to two assumptions: the future performance of the The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the external US businesses, and the amount of losses available to utilise.
auditor both provides an effective source of assurance for the During the year, the Group has passed the threshold at which Groups financial reporting and controls, and maintains the a change of control occurs, as defined by the US tax code.
As necessary independence and objectivity.
a result, the historic losses of the Groups US businesses will be subject to a restriction on utilisation.
The amount of this Independence restriction will not be known for certain until tax filings in The current external auditor, KPMG, was appointed in 2010 respect of 2016 have been filed and not challenged by the US and so there is no requirement to tender the external audit Internal Revenue Service IRS.
The Committee has reviewed engagement until 2020.
The current lead audit partner, John the assumptions used by management to support the current Bennett, has been in post since 2013 and so will be obliged carrying value, together with the findings of the external to step down after the 2017 audit.
It is expected that, during auditor, and is satisfied that these are a reasonable estimate.
2017, KPMG will nominate a successor as lead audit partner However, should either the future performance of the US to ensure a smooth handover during the course of the year.
business or the valuation restriction accepted by the IRS differ significantly from these assumptions, there may be a material The auditor is generally only engaged for audit and related change in the value of these tax losses.
It should also be noted activities and the Committee is responsible for enforcing the that, as with all deferred tax items, these assets are based on Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the external tax rates currently enacted and so assume no change in those auditor.
If there is a case to use the external auditor to provide rates, and if these rates change then there could be a material non-audit services, prior permission is required from the impact on the carrying value.
Committee who will review the proposal to ensure that it will not impact the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Adjusted performance measures policy also requires all permissible services with a fee greater The Group uses certain non-GAAP measures of performance, than 100,000 be pre-approved by the Committee.
A as in the opinion of the Directors this provides a better breakdown of total audit and non-audit fees charged by the understanding of the underlying performance of the business, external auditor for the year under review is shown in Note 8 and provides better comparability with other peer group to the financial statements.
A summary of non-audit fees paid companies.
The use and definition of these measures is a to the external auditor is provided to the Committee on a half matter of judgement.
The Committee discussed these yearly basis.
During the year, KPMG were paid 0.8m in measures with both management and advisers, including the respect of services as reporting accountant on the listing of external auditor, to ensure that the measures were reasonable, Ascential plc.
These services were permissible under the FRC and reviewed their use in the context of the overall Annual Ethical Standard and were authorised by the Board of the Report and Accounts to ensure that this was consistent with previous holding company of the Group prior to the formation the Code requirement to be fair, balanced and understandable.
and listing of Ascential plc.
KPMG were also paid 44,000 in respect of tax services completed during 2016, and permitted Internal controls by the Ethical Standard.
From 1 January 2017, the Ethical The Committee undertakes an annual review of controls Standard does not permit KPMG to provide certain services, effectiveness, and also reviews control issues as they arise including tax services.
during the year in relation to operational and compliance control matters as well as financial controls.
During the year Effectiveness it has also supported management in the establishment of The Committee liaises directly with the external auditor an internal audit function, to provide additional assurance throughout the year to review audit strategy and plans, in relation to control matters.
The major components of to monitor progress and receive progress updates, and to the internal controls systems include: review audit findings prior to announcement of the financial results.
In addition, the Committee receives feedback clearly defined operational structure, accountabilities from management and conducts a survey of finance staff and authority limits: throughout the Group.
This regular involvement and feedback detailed operational planning and forecasting: gives the Committee insight into the quality of work delivered thorough monitoring of performance and changes and provides the basis for the Committee to conclude that in outlook: and is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended that KPMG be reappointed as auditor for the coming year.
Specific matters considered in relation to controls 66 effectiveness included: Paul Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 February 2017 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
