62 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHRIS COLE Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive Appointment of non-executive directors directors, each of whom is independent, myself as chairman and During the year we assessed the non-executive profile of the Board, the chief executive, Geoff Drabble.
Eric Watkins is secretary to including skills, experience and diversity, and factored this into the Committee.
the search brief for two new non-executive directors to replace the retiring directors.
We appointed Korn Ferry, an independent The Nomination Committee meets as and when required to search firm with no other connection to the Company, to assist consider the structure, size and composition of the Board of in identifying suitable candidates.
The Committees primary focus during the year remained we were delighted to appoint Lucinda Riches as a non-executive succession planning and, in particular, the orderly replacement director of the Company in June 2016.
Lucinda will join the of two long-serving non-executive directors, including the chair Nomination and Remuneration Committees and, following of the Remuneration Committee.
the retirement of Michael Burrow, will become chair of the There were no changes to the Board during the year.
Main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee Reappointment of directors The principal duties of the Committee are making The Committee unanimously recommends the re-election election recommendations to the Board on: of each of the directors, except Michael Burrow and Bruce Edwards who are retiring, at the 2016 AGM.
In making this recommendation, the Boards structure, size, composition and balance: we evaluated each director in terms of their performance, the appointment, reappointment, retirement or continuation commitment to the role, and capacity to discharge their of any director: and responsibilities effectively, given their other external time the continuation of any non-executive director who has served commitments and responsibilities.
for a period of three years or more.
Board composition and diversity The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available Our objective is to have a broad range of skills, background and for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
While we will continue to ensure that Summary of the Committees work during the year we appoint the best people for the relevant roles, we recognise the The Committee met once during the year and the principal matters benefits of diversity and we will continue to take this into account discussed were: when considering any particular appointment, although we do not set any particular targets.
succession planning: and the retirement and replacement of Michael Burrow and By order of the Board Bruce Edwards.
The Committee met in May 2016 to recommend the appointment of Lucinda Riches as a non-executive director.
ERIC WATKINS Company secretary 13 June 2016
