54 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHRIS COLE Chairman Areas of Board focus Dear Shareholder During the past year the Board has paid particular attention to the following important areas: This year has seen continued development and growth for Ashtead.
We continue to deliver on reviewing Board priorities and activities in line with our risk our promises and execute our strategy of organic and ethics management regime: an ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of our strategy and the growth, supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions.
degree to which it remains appropriate as markets and As we grow it is crucial that our governance opportunities change: structures keep pace so that we can ensure continuing review of the effectiveness of our capital structure growth is both responsible and sustainable.
as the economic environment changes: evaluating our robust operating model and structure to We need to manage our risks efficiently and ensure transparency ensure they remain fit for purpose as Ashtead grows and across the business.
I am confident that your Board is well placed markets change: to do that and we remain committed to maintaining the very highest assessing the effectiveness of our health and safety practices standards of corporate governance.
We recognise that good and monitoring across the Group, and identifying areas for governance is essential in assisting the business deliver its improvement: strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard shareholders ensuring our key management resource remains motivated long-term interests.
and appropriately rewarded: and As chairman, it is my role to ensure that the governance regime succession planning and ongoing senior recruitment.
remains appropriately robust and that the Board operates Compliance effectively.
I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance We endeavour to monitor and comply with ongoing changes report for 2015 16.
This report details the matters addressed by in corporate governance and evolving best practice in this area.
the Board and its committees during the year.
I am pleased to report that, aside from the requirement for an Board composition and diversity external board evaluation this year, which I deal with on page 57, Each member of our Board must be able to demonstrate the the Company has complied in full throughout the year with the 2014 skills, experience and knowledge required to contribute to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, issued by the Financial effectiveness of the Board.
It is also important that we address Reporting Council FRC and available to view at www.
uk, issues of diversity in terms of skills, geographical experience and I can confirm this report provides a fair, balanced and relevant to our business and gender.
I believe the Board is understandable view of the Groups position and prospects.
appropriately balanced in terms of diversity with a good mix of specialist skills and market expertise.
This has been an area of particular focus this year as we planned for the retirement of Michael Burrow and Bruce Edwards on 7 September 2016 after each serving for nine years as a non-executive director.
Thus, while the composition of the Board has not changed during the CHRIS COLE year, Lucinda Riches was appointed as a non-executive director on Chairman 1 June 2016.
While sorry to see Michael and Bruce leave, I look forward to working with Lucinda as we seek to further Ashteads success.
DIRECTORS REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55 LEADERSHIP There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision.
The Company is led by an effective Board which is collectively Other matters are delegated to Board committees.
responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The role of the Board MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategy and The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision ensuring the necessary resources and capabilities are in place to includes: deliver the strategic aims and objectives.
It determines the Groups treasury policy: approval of the annual key policies and reviews management and financial performance.
acquisitions and disposals: accounts and the quarterly The Groups governance framework is designed to facilitate a appointment and removal financial reports to combination of effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management, of directors or the company shareholders: both to safeguard shareholders interests and to sustain the secretary: approval of the issue of success of Ashtead over the longer term.
This is achieved through a appointment and removal shares and debentures: control framework which enables risk to be assessed and managed of the auditor: the setting of dividend effectively.
The Board sets the Groups core values and standards policy: and and ensures that these, together with the Groups obligations to its the buyback of shares.
stakeholders, are understood throughout the Group.
Board meetings The principal activities of the Board are conducted at regular scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees.
The Board ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS normally meets six times a year, with at least one of these meetings HELD BETWEEN 1 MAY 2015 AND 30 APRIL 2016 being held in the US.
Additional ad hoc meetings and calls are Board Audit Remuneration Nomination arranged outside the scheduled meetings to take decisions Number of as required.
meetings held 6 5 3 1 The chairman and chief executive maintain regular contact with Chris Cole 6 1 the other directors to discuss matters relating to the Group and Sat Dhaiwal 6 the Board receives regular reports and briefings to ensure the Geoff Drabble 6 1 directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
Brendan Horgan 6 Suzanne Wood 6 The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and Michael Burrow 6 5 3 1 when required in the absence of the executive directors to discuss Wayne Edmunds 6 5 3 1 and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the Bruce Edwards 6 3 1 performance of the executive directors.
In accordance with the Ian Sutcliffe 6 5 3 1 Code, the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, also meet at least annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and appraise his performance.
THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES GROUP RISK COMMITTEE FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION BOARD Chaired by Suzanne Wood COMMITTEE with responsibility for Corporate Responsibility Chaired by Geoff Drabble AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Michael Burrow Michael Burrow Michael Burrow Wayne Edmunds Chris Cole Wayne Edmunds Ian Sutcliffe Geoff Drabble Bruce Edwards Wayne Edmunds Lucinda Riches Bruce Edwards Ian Sutcliffe Lucinda Riches Ian Sutcliffe 56 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Delegated authority Non-executive directors Board committees In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Companys The Board has standing Audit, Nomination and Remuneration practice to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
The membership, roles and activities of the Audit and Before appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure Nomination Committees are detailed on pages 59 to 62 and the the Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to Remuneration Committee in the separate report on pages 63 to 82. fulfil properly their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the telephone and meeting Each committee reports to, and has its terms of reference agreed preparation time.
The non-executives letters of appointment will by, the Board.
The terms of reference of these committees are be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The available on our website and will be available for inspection at the approval of the chairman is required before a non-executive can Annual General Meeting.
take on other non-executive director roles.
Finance and Administration Committee The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Chris Cole, EFFECTIVENESS Geoff Drabble chairman and Suzanne Wood.
The Board of Composition of the Board directors has delegated authority to this committee to deal with The Companys Board comprises the chairman, the chief executive, routine financial and administrative matters between Board the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and A-Plant, meetings.
The Committee meets as necessary to perform its the senior independent non-executive director and normally three role and has a quorum requirement of two members with certain other independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies of matters requiring the participation of the chairman, including, the directors are given on pages 52 and 53. for example, the approval of material announcements to the The directors are of the view that the Board and its committees London Stock Exchange.
consist of directors with the appropriate balance of skills, Summary of the Boards work during the year experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to discharge During the year, the Board considered all matters reserved to the their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The composition of Board for decision, focusing in particular on the following: the Board has not changed during the year.
Lucinda Riches was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 June 2016.
Michael Review of operations and current trading Burrow and Bruce Edwards will be retiring from the Board with Approval of the quarterly financial statements effect from 7 September 2016.
Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts Approval of the AGM resolutions Appointments to the Board Dividend policy The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the Investor relations structure, size and composition of the Board and making Treasury policy recommendations to the Board on any changes required.
Increase of the senior debt facility to $2.6bn Appointments are made on merit, based on objective criteria, Growth and acquisition strategy including skills and experience and recognising the benefits Various acquisitions of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Nomination Adoption of the 2016 17 budget Committee led the process to refresh the Board pending the Review of the work of the Group Risk Committee retirement of Michael Burrow and Bruce Edwards.
Further details Review and approval of the Groups risk register are given in the Nomination Committee report on page 62.
The recommendations of the Remuneration Committee BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLES Chairman Chris Cole Responsible for leadership of the Board, agreeing Board agendas and ensuring its effectiveness by requiring the provision of timely, accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business, to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success of the business.
Chief executive Geoff Drabble Responsible for developing the strategy for the business, in conjunction with the Board, ensuring it is implemented, and the operational management of the business.
Finance director Suzanne Wood Supports the chief executive in developing and implementing the strategy and responsible for the reporting of the financial and operational performance of the business.
Senior independent Ian Sutcliffe Available to shareholders if they have reason for concern that contact through director the normal channels of chairman or chief executive has failed to resolve.
Independent Michael Burrow, Provide a constructive contribution to the Board by providing objective non-executive Wayne Edmunds, challenge and critique for executive management and insights drawn from directors Bruce Edwards, Lucinda their broad experience.
Riches, Ian Sutcliffe DIRECTORS REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57 Commitment Board evaluation As part of the appointment process, prospective directors are The performance of the chairman, chief executive, the Board and required to confirm that they will be able to devote sufficient time its committees is evaluated formally annually against, amongst to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
other things, their respective role profiles and terms of reference.
Furthermore, all directors are required to inform the Company The executive directors are evaluated additionally against the of changes in their commitments to ensure that they continue to agreed budget for the generation of revenue, profit and value be able to devote sufficient time to the Company.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms not In accordance with the Code, it is the Boards intention to have exceeding three years and are subject to annual re-election and its and its committees performance evaluation conducted by the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the removal an external third party every three years.
However, in view of the of a director.
recent Board changes, it was considered prudent to delay this years Board evaluation until November 2016 to enable recently appointed Board members to be part of that evaluation.
This years TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Board evaluation will be conducted by an external third party.
Re-election The directors will retire at this years Annual General Meeting and, Chris Cole 14 years save for Michael Burrow and Bruce Edwards, will offer themselves Michael Burrow 9 years for election and re-election in accordance with the Code.
Bruce Edwards 9 years Ian Sutcliffe 6 years ACCOUNTABILITY Financial and business reporting Wayne Edmunds 2 years The Board is committed to providing stakeholders with a fair, Lucinda Riches balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
This is achieved through the Strategic report, which includes an explanation of the Groups business model, and other information included within this Annual Report.
The responsibilities of the directors in respect of the preparation of this Annual Report are set out on page 85 and the auditors report on pages 88 to 90 includes a statement by Deloitte about its reporting responsibilities.
Development and training As set out on page 84, the directors are of the opinion that the All newly appointed directors undertake an induction to all parts Group is a going concern.
This includes visits to both the Sunbelt and A-Plant businesses and meetings with their management teams.
Risk management and internal control The company secretary also provides directors with an overview The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management of their responsibilities as directors, corporate governance policies framework and internal control systems.
It has established a and Board policies and procedures.
The chairman and chief process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal executive assess regularly the development needs of the Board risks faced by the Group.
This robust process has been in place for as a whole with the intention of identifying any additional training the full financial year, is ongoing and is consistent with the FRCs requirements.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in 2014.
Under its Information and support terms of reference the Group Risk Committee meets semi-annually The directors have access to the company secretary and are able or more frequently if required.
to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
As described more fully on page 30, the Group reviews and assesses Regular reports and briefings are provided to the Board, by the the risks it faces in its business and how these risks are managed.
executive directors and the company secretary, to ensure the These reviews are conducted throughout the year in conjunction directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
with the management teams of each of the Groups businesses Additionally, detailed management accounts are sent monthly and are documented in an annual report, including the updated risk to all Board members and, in advance of all Board meetings, an register.
The reviews consider whether any matters have arisen agenda and appropriate documentation in respect of each item since the last report was prepared which might indicate omissions to be discussed are circulated.
or inadequacies in that assessment.
It also considers whether, as a result of changes in either the internal or external environment, any new significant risks have arisen.
The Group Risk Committee reviewed the draft report for 2016, which was then presented to, discussed and approved by the Audit Committee and the Board on 9 June 2016.
58 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED One of our principal risks is business continuity and the capacity, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS resilience and evolution of the Groups IT systems and networks.
Dialogue with shareholders As part of the Boards regular updates on business risks, it received We engage actively with analysts and investors and are open a detailed report and update on Sunbelts IT strategy and priorities and transparent in our communications.
This enables us to for the forthcoming two years.
This provided the Board with understand what analysts and investors think about our strategy assurance that the principal IT and related development needs and performance as we drive the business forward.
The Board is had been identified and prioritised appropriately.
updated regularly on the views of shareholders through briefings and reports from those who have had interaction with shareholders The Board monitors the risk management framework and internal including the directors and the Companys brokers.
Regular control systems on an ongoing basis and reviews their effectiveness dialogue is maintained with analysts and investors through formally each year.
As part of its monitoring, through the Audit meetings, presentations, conferences and ad hoc events.
During Committee, it received reports from the operational audit teams the year, senior management conducted over 400 meetings and and considered the internal control improvement recommendations calls and attended three conferences, with investors in the UK, made by the Groups internal auditors and its external auditor and US and the rest of Europe.
The control system includes written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of The chairman and the senior independent non-executive director accountability and delegation of authority, and comprehensive are available to meet institutional shareholders to discuss any reporting and analysis against budgets and latest forecasts.
issues or concerns in relation to the Groups governance and strategy.
During the year the chairman of the Remuneration In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of Committee met or had discussions with a number of shareholders Ashtead, minor breakdowns in established control procedures to discuss the application of our remuneration policy and the can occur.
There are supporting policies and procedures for details of the new remuneration policy to be proposed at this years investigation and management of control breakdowns at any Annual General Meeting.
of the Groups stores or elsewhere.
The Audit Committee also meets regularly with the external auditor to discuss their work.
The Groups results and other news releases are published via the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
In addition, The Board considers that the Groups internal control systems are these news releases are published in the Investor Relations section designed appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of of the Groups website at www.
Shareholders failure to achieve its business objectives.
Any such control system, and other interested parties can subscribe to receive these news however, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance updates by email through registering online on the website.
against material misstatement or loss.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Audit Committee and auditor We value meeting with our private shareholders at the Companys The Board has delegated responsibility for oversight of corporate Annual General Meeting AGM.
The 2016 AGM will be held in reporting and risk management and internal control and for London on Wednesday, 7 September 2016.
Further details of the maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups auditor to meeting are given on page 84.
Shareholders will receive an update the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee report on pages 59 to 61 on first quarter trading during the meeting and be invited to ask contains full details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee.
questions and meet the directors after the formal proceedings have been completed.
REMUNERATION The Board has delegated responsibility for developing remuneration Resolutions at the 2016 AGM will be voted on by a show of hands.
policy and fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors Following each vote, the results will be announced to the meeting to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee and then announced to the London Stock Exchange and published report on pages 63 to 82 contains full details of the role and on the Companys corporate website as soon as practicable after activities of the Remuneration Committee.
Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
