Corporate governance Chairmans introduction This is my first report since succeeding Michael Benson as Chairman in October 2015 and I should like to express on behalf of the Board my gratitude to Michael for all of his hard work over the last nineyears.
The Board also welcomed Clive Adamson in October 2015 who has joined the Audit and RiskCommittee.
My interviews with all of the Board members during the course of the annual Board performance evaluation has confirmed that there is a professional and constructive environment and that the performance of the Directors, the Board, and its Committees, continues to be effective.
Peter Gibbs Chairman The Group has been in compliance with The Board has a schedule of matters The Board confirms that the Company and the UK Corporate Governance Code and its specifically reserved to it for decision and Mark Coombs entered into a relationship predecessor versions since Admission to approval, which include, but are not limited to: agreement on 1 July 2014 as required under listing on the London Stock Exchange on 17 UK Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a : and that: the Groups long-term commercial October 2006, except where the Directors i the Company has complied with the objectives and strategy: consider that in particular limited independence provisions included in that major acquisitions, disposals circumstances, departure may be justified agreement: ii so far as the Company is and investments: and explained.
No departures from the aware, Mark Coombs has complied with Code occurred during the year under the Groups annual and interim reports the independence provisions included in that review.
References herein to the Code andfinancial statements: agreement: and iii so far as the Company areto the 2014 version of the UK Corporate is aware, Mark Coombs has complied with interim dividend and recommendation Governance Code.
This report describes the the procurement obligation included in that offinal dividend: Groups corporate governance arrangements, agreement pursuant to UK Listing Rule annual budgets and forecast updates: explaining how it has applied the principles 9.2.
2BR 2 a, in each case during the financial internal capital adequacy ofthe Code.
reporting period ending on 30 June 2016. assessment process: Directors The Board meets a minimum of six significant capital expenditure: and The Board of Directors comprises two times during the year to review financial the effectiveness of risk management Executive Directors and six independent performance and strategy and to follow andinternal control systems.
The two Executive the formal schedule of matters reserved for Directors are Mark Coombs, the Chief its decision.
Comprehensive Board papers, The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Tom Shippey, the comprising an agenda and formal reports Executive Officer are separate, clearly Group Finance Director.
The Independent and briefing papers, are sent to Directors defined and have been approved by the Non-executive Directors are Peter Gibbs, in advance of each meeting.
The Chairman is responsible for the Chairman: Simon Fraser, Senior Independent their period in office, Directors are continually effective conduct of the Board, while the Director: Nick Land, Dame Anne Pringle, updated by means of written and verbal Chief Executive Officer is responsible for David Bennett and Clive Adamson.
Michael reports from senior executives and external execution of strategy and for the day-to-day Benson retired from the Board on 22 October advisers on the Groups business, and the management of the Group.
2015 and Clive Adamson was appointed on competitive and regulatory environments In considering Non-executive Director the same date.
With the exception of the in which it operates, as well as on legal, independence, the Board has taken into changes described all other Directors compliance, corporate governance, consideration the guidance provided by servedthroughout the year.
The Board considers Peter Gibbs, otherrelevant matters.
Simon Fraser, Nick Land, Dame Anne Pringle, In addition to its formal business, the David Bennett and Clive Adamson to be Board received a number of briefings and independent.
Simon Fraser is the Senior presentations from executive management Independent Director.
during the year covering a wide range of During the year under review the Group topics across the range of the Groups complied with the Code requirement that at business.
All Directors have access to least half of the Board consist of independent independent professional advice, if required, Directors excluding the Chairman.
at the Companys expense, as well as to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
New Directors appointed to the 46 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Board will receive advice as to the legal Powers of the Directors YEAR 1 and other duties and obligations arising from Subject to the Companys Articles, the Externally facilitated Board evaluation the role of a director of a UK listed company Companies Act 2006 and any directions within a full, formal and tailored induction.
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by The Company Secretary, under the the Board, who may exercise all powers of YEAR 2 direction of the Chairman, is responsible the Company, whether relating to the for maintaining an adequate continuing One to one interviews with Chairman management of the business of the education programme, reminding the focussing on issues raised in year 1 and Company or not.
Directors of their duties and obligations any other issues onaregular basis, ensuring good information Biographical details of the Directors are flows between the Board, itscommittees given on page 45.
YEAR 3 and management and assisting with Annual performance evaluation Directors continuing professional One to one interviews with Chairman The Code recommends that the Board development needs.
The Companys focussing on progress should undertake a formal annual evaluation Nominations Committee considers the of its own performance and that of its appointment and replacement of Directors committees and individual Directors and subject to the rules set out in the Articles, The Directors were also invited to provide thatan externally facilitated evaluation should asummary of which is set out below.
comments to the Senior Independent be undertaken at least once every three Director on the performance of the Under the Articles, the minimum number years.
An independent externally facilitated Chairman.
The Board believes that, following of Directors shall be two and the maximum evaluation was undertaken by Independent the completion of the performance evaluation, shall be nine.
Directors may be appointed by Audit which has no connection with the the performance of the Chairman and the the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Company for the reporting year ended Directors continues to be effective and that Board.
A Director appointed by the Board 30 June 2015.
For the year under review they continue to demonstrate commitment must offer himself herself for election at individual meetings were held between to their roles.
the next Annual General Meeting of the each Director and the Chairman in which Company following his appointment but issues and developments over the year were Board committees he is not taken into account in determining discussed and performance was considered The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, the Directors or the number of Directors who by reference to the objectives of the Board Remuneration and Nominations Committees are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
The Chairman presented to assist in the execution of its duties.
a report to the Board and highlighted a The Directors to retire by rotation must be All of these committees operate within number of key points arising from his those who held office at the time of the written terms of reference, which are interviews with the Directors: two preceding Annual General Meetings reviewed annually consistent with changes and did not retire at either of them or those The Board believes that the compact inlegislation and best practice.
who have held office with the Company for structure is effective and that the a continuous period of nine years or more The chairman of each committee reports relationships around the Boardroom at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The office of Director shall be vacated in The size and balance of the Board is Each of the committees is authorised, at other circumstances, including where correct and the Board is mindful of the the Companys expense, to obtain external i that Director resigns or is asked to resign: need for greater diversity.
legal or other professional advice to assist ii they are or have been suffering from in carrying out its duties.
Only the members There is a constructive, professional and mental ill-health: iii they are absent without of each committee are entitled to attend open environment and the Board is well permission of the Board from meetings of its meetings but others, such as senior supported by the senior executives and the Board for six consecutive months: management and external advisers, bythe senior management team iv they become bankrupt or compound may be invited to attend as appropriate.
with their creditors generally: or v they The Audit and Risk, Remuneration are prohibited by law from being a Director.
Current membership of the committees and Nominations Committees are is shown in the relevant sections below.
Notwithstanding these provisions, the Board consideredeffective.
The composition of these committees is has adopted provision B.
7.1 of the Code and, reviewed at least annually, taking into The Board strategy sessions and with the exception of Nick Land who will not consideration the recommendations of subsequent discussions have be seeking re-election and who will retire theNominations Committee.
from the Board at the conclusion of the meeting, all Directors will retire and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 21 October 2016.
The Listing Rules require that the election re-election of independent directors be by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well as by a majority of votes cast by all shareholders.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Corporate governance continued Board and committee attendance The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
Directors whoare not members of any Board committees are also invited to attend meetings of all such committees.
Board and committee attendanceis described in the table below andincludes attendancefor Directors who have served on the Board or itscommittees through part of the year under review.
Nominations Audit and Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings scheduled between3 July 2015 and 1 July 2016 6 3 5 5 1 Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% 2 Mark Coombs 100% 2 Tom Shippey 100% 3 Peter Gibbs 100% 100% 100% 4 Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% Simon Fraser 100% 100% 100% 100% 5 Dame Anne Pringle 100% 100% 100% 6 David Bennett 100% 100% 100% 100% 7 Clive Adamson 100% 75% 1.
Michael Benson retired from the Board on 22 October 2015.
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board committee meetings as required but do not attend as members of those committees.
The Group Finance Director attends all meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Peter Gibbs was appointed to the Nominations and Remuneration Committees on 22 October 2015.
Nick Land stepped down from the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees on 22 October 2015.
Dame Anne Pringle joined the Audit and Risk Committee on 22 October 2015.
David Bennett joined the Nominations and Remuneration Committees on 22 October 2015.
Clive Adamson was appointed to the Board on 22 October 2015 and joined the Audit and Risk Committee on 10 December 2015.
Corporate Governance Framework plc Board of Directors plc Remuneration Committee Responsible for overall strategy, management and control Determines compensation for Code Staff and reviews compensation for Control Staff plc Executive Directors plc Audit and Risk Committee Separate detailed terms of reference in line with corporate governance best practice Management Committees Responsible for overseeing business, investments and internal controls Auditors Investment Committees Risk and Compliance External: Committee Systems and Controls Independent assurance via audit of Group Financial Review Committee Pricing Oversight Statements and audit of internal control procedures Committee Pricing Methodology and under ISAE 3402 Valuation Committee Foreign Exchange Management Committee Product Committee IT Steering Group Global Investment Internal: Performance Standards Best Execution Committee Independent assurance via audit directed at specific Committee Awards Committee departmental control procedures Operating Committee Senior Management Responsible for day-to-day management 48 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016
