DIRECTORS REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT WAYNE EDMUNDS Chairman of the Audit Committee Introduction by Wayne Edmunds, Audit Committee chairman Membership of the Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive 2015 16.
The Committee is made up of three independent nondirectors, biographical details of whom are set out on page 53. executive directors.
I have been chairman since July 2014 and have The members of the Committee are: recent and relevant financial experience, having held a number of Wayne Edmunds Chairman senior international finance roles.
The members of the Committee, Michael Burrow together with my experience, bring an appropriate balance of Ian Sutcliffe financial and accounting experience combined with a good understanding of Ashteads business.
Main responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and Eric Watkins is secretary to the Committee.
Chris Cole, Geoff monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and Drabble, Suzanne Wood, and the Groups deputy finance director internal controls.
generally attend meetings by invitation.
In addition, the Groups external audit partner attends the Committee meetings.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for monitor the integrity of the annual and quarterly results, oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management including a review of the significant financial reporting and internal control.
As chairman of the Committee, it is my judgements contained therein: responsibility to ensure that the Committee fulfils its responsibilities establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the in a rigorous and effective manner.
The Committees agenda external auditor, including the external audit process, its audit and is designed, in conjunction with the Boards, to ensure that all non-audit fees and independence, and make recommendations significant areas of risk are covered and to enable it to provide to the Board on the appointment of the external auditor: timely input to Board deliberations.
review and assess the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management I am satisfied that the Committee was provided with good-quality systems: and timely material to allow proper consideration to be given to the oversee the nature, scope and effectiveness of the internal audit topics under review.
I am also satisfied that the meetings were work undertaken: and scheduled to allow sufficient time to ensure all matters were monitor the Companys policies and procedures for handling considered fully.
One of the Codes principles is that the Board should present a The Committee reports to the Board on its activities and minutes fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys of meetings are available to the Board.
position and prospects through its financial reporting.
We have always sought to ensure our financial and other external reporting The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee has kept Group website and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
this principle at the forefront of its thought process as it reviewed all the Companys financial reports in advance of publication and is satisfied that they provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
WAYNE EDMUNDS Chairman of the Audit Committee 60 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Summary of the Committees work during the year The Committee met on five occasions during the year.
Meetings are The Companys financial scheduled to coincide with our financial reporting cycle, with four regular meetings scheduled prior to our quarterly, half-year and reports provide a fair, annual results announcements.
The Group audit partner from Deloitte or his designate attends all meetings of the Committee balanced and understandable and reports formally at three of these meetings.
assessment of the Companys A similar process is undertaken at each reporting date whereby the position and prospects.
Committee receives a paper from management which comments on the principal balances in the financial statements and discusses any significant judgements and matters of a financial reporting nature arising since the last meeting.
In addition, we receive reports from Deloitte at three of the meetings.
The first, in December, contains the results of Deloittes review of our half-year results.
The half-year review forms part of Deloittes planning for the annual Goodwill impairment review audit and their full audit plan and proposed audit fee is presented The Group undertakes a formal goodwill impairment review as to the February meeting of the Committee.
Deloittes final report at 30 April each year.
This is based on the latest approved budget of the year is at the June meeting when we review the draft annual and three-year plan for Sunbelt and A-Plant.
Last year the Group report.
Their report contains the findings from their audit work, concluded that certain specialty businesses should be classified as including comments on the draft annual report.
separate cash-generating units CGUs, due to them generating Integrity of financial reporting separately identifiable cash flows.
We are satisfied that these CGUs We reviewed the integrity of the quarterly and annual financial remain appropriate and that there is no impairment of the carrying statements of the Company.
This included the review and value of goodwill in the CGUs of Sunbelt or A-Plant.
Further details discussion of papers prepared by management and took account are provided in Note 14 to the financial statements.
of the views of the external auditors.
The key areas reviewed in Intangible asset impairment review the current year are set out below.
The fall in the oil price and its impact on the oil and gas industry Carrying value of rental fleet caused management to reassess the carrying value of intangible Management undertakes an annual review of the appropriateness assets related to acquired customer lists within our Oil & Gas of the useful lives and residual values assigned to property, plant business.
Reflecting the expectation that revenue from those and equipment and assesses whether they continue to be appropriate customers, and hence future cash flows, would be much lower than and whether there are any indications of impairment.
Inter alia, anticipated when the businesses were acquired, an impairment this review considers the level of gains on disposal and age of charge of 12m was taken.
We are satisfied that the judgements assets at the date of disposal along with the level of second-hand taken are reasonable and appropriate.
values, while taking into account cyclical considerations.
We are External audit effectiveness satisfied that the judgements taken are appropriate and consistent The Committee conducted an assessment of the effectiveness with prior years.
of the audit of the 2016 financial statements, based on its own Going concern experience and drawing on input from senior corporate management We reviewed the appropriateness of the going concern assumption and senior finance management at Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The review in preparing the financial statements.
We reviewed a paper was based on questionnaires completed by the members of the prepared by management which considered the Groups internal Committee and senior management.
The questionnaires focused budgets and forecasts of future performance, available financing on the quality and experience of the team assigned to the audit, facilities and facility headroom.
In addition, we reviewed the the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery and scenario planning considered in assessing the Groups viability over communication, and governance and independence of the audit the medium term.
Taking account of reasonably possible changes in firm.
Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the audit process and trading performance, used equipment values and other factors that strategy for the audit of the 2016 financial statements was effective.
might affect availability, the Group expects to maintain significant headroom under its borrowing facilities for the forthcoming year.
We are satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
DIRECTORS REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61 detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres Non-audit services and external auditor independence undertaken periodically by internal audit specialists from a major Each year we review the level of fees and nature of non-audit work international accounting firm: undertaken and we were again satisfied that it was in line with our comprehensive audits at each store generally carried out at least policy and did not detract from the objectivity and independence of every two years by internal operational audit.
A summary of this the external auditor.
It is accepted that certain work of a non-audit work is provided semi-annually to the Audit Committee: and nature is best undertaken by the external auditor.
The non-audit whistle-blowing procedures by which staff may, in confidence, fees paid to the Companys auditor, Deloitte, for the year relate to its raise concerns about possible improprieties or breaches of review of the Companys interim results.
Details of the fees payable company policy or procedure.
to the external auditor are given in Note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee receives regular reports from internal operational Reappointment of external auditor audit, outsourced internal audit and the Group Risk Committee.
Deloitte was appointed external auditor in 2004.
The external The Groups risk management processes are an area of focus as auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the they adapt to reflect changes to our risk profile as a result of our Group audit every five years and this year is the current lead audit significant growth, both organic and through bolt-on acquisitions.
The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each year and is recommending to the Viability statement Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at the 2016 Annual During the year the Committee discussed managements approach General Meeting for the reappointment of Deloitte.
There are to addressing the requirements for the new viability statement no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external and the work undertaken by management and reviewed a paper auditor and in making its recommendation the Committee took summarising their conclusions and proposed statement.
The into account, amongst other matters, the tenure, objectivity and statement was agreed at the June meeting and is included on independence of Deloitte, as noted above, and its continuing page 32. effectiveness and cost.
Internal audit The Committee has followed the legislative developments on audit The internal operational audit teams in the two businesses tendering and rotation from the EU and Competition & Markets undertake operational audits across the store network using a Authority.
Under the transitional arrangements, the Group is not risk-based methodology.
Each year we agree the scope of work required to rotate its auditor until 2023.
Notwithstanding the and the coverage in the audit plan at the start of the year and transitional arrangements, we will consider tendering the audit in receive formal reports on the results of the work at the half year 2017 to fit in with the timing of the next rotation of the current audit and full year.
During the year 347 audits were completed, which partner scheduled for 2018. is consistent with our goal for each of our 700 stores to receive an audit visit at least once every two years.
The audits are scored and Financial control and risk management action plans agreed with store management to remedy identified The Companys objective is to maintain a strong control weaknesses.
This continual process of reinforcement is key to the environment which minimises the financial risk faced by the store-level control environment.
It is the Committees responsibility to review and assess the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and In addition, we engage a major international accounting firm to internal control and risk management factors.
perform detailed internal audits at the Groups major support centres periodically.
In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and monitoring procedures include: Whistle-blowing There are policies and procedures in place whereby staff may, the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial in confidence, report concerns about possible improprieties or management information, including a monthly profit and loss breaches of Company policy or procedure.
These suspicions are account and selected balance sheet data for each store: investigated and the results of the investigation are, where possible, the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down reported to the whistle-blower.
The Committee receives a report authority levels and proper segregation of accounting duties from the company secretary on control issues arising from at the Groups accounting support centres: whistle-blowing as well as from other sources.
the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board: the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update forecasts which are reviewed by the executive directors and then by the Board: a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory counts conducted at each store by equipment type and independently checked on a sample basis by our operational auditors and external auditor:
