Governance Audit and risk committee report overseeing and challenging the design and execution of stress and scenario testing: AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE considering and approving the remit of the internal audit and risk management I am pleased to submit the report Activities functions and ensuring that they have The Audit and Risk Committee held four on the activities of the Audit and adequate independence: pre-scheduled meetings during the year Risk Committee for the financial monitoring and reviewing the scope, and held an additional meeting to consider year ended 30 June 2016. extent and effectiveness of the activities the audit tender.
The activities of the Audit of the Internal audit function in the context and Risk Committee are described on Nick Land stepped down from of the Companys overall risk management pages 49 and 50. the Committee on 22 October and control systems: During the year under review the following 2015 and I would like to extend reviewing, assessing and approving the Non-executive Directors served on the internal audit plan: my thanks to him for his work as Audit and Risk Committee, the reviewing the external auditors plan for the its Chairman over the years.
We membership of which was compliant audit of the Groups financial statements, withthe Code: have continued to benefit from receiving and reviewing confirmations of Nicks insight and experience over David Bennett Chairman auditor independence and approving the the course of this financial year.
Nick Land terms of engagement and proposed fees for the audit: We also welcomed Dame Anne Simon Fraser reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness Pringle to the Committee on 22 Dame Anne Pringle and quality of the external audit: October 2015 and Clive Adamson Clive Adamson reviewing the level and amount of external on 10 December 2015.
Nick Landretired from the Committee on auditor non-audit services: 22 October 2015, Dame Anne Pringle was David Bennett making recommendations to the Board appointed to the Committee and David Chairman for a resolution to be put to shareholders Bennett was appointed Chairmanon the to approve the reappointment of the same date.
Clive Adamson joined the external auditor: Committee on 10 December 2015.
All reviewing the Companys arrangements other members of the Audit and Risk for its employees to raise concerns, in Committee served throughout the year.
confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters and reviewing the Companys systems and The Board is satisfied that for the year under A report on the activities of the Audit and controls for detecting fraud and the review, and thereafter, David Bennett, Nick Risk Committee is set out below.
prevention of bribery: Land, Simon Fraser, and Clive Adamson had, reviewing the Audit and Risk Committees The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk and have, recent and relevant commercial terms of reference, carrying out an annual Committee include: and financial knowledge and experience.
performance evaluation exercise and The Board is further satisfied that the Audit monitoring and challenging the integrity of noting the satisfactory operation of the and Risk Committee as a whole has the financial statements of the Company, Committee: and competence relevant to the sector in any formal announcements relating to the reporting to the Board on how it has whichthe company operates.
Companys financial statements or discharged its responsibilities.
performance and any significant financial Nick Land is a Chartered Accountant, Simon issues and judgements contained in them: Key judgements Fraser has previously served as Global Chief In assessing the various key matters reviewing the contents of the Annual Investment Officer with Fidelity International, relative to its terms of reference, and Report and Accounts and advising the David Bennett has served as Group Finance to satisfy itself that the sources of Board on whether, taken as a whole, they Director and the Group Chief Executive of assurance and information the Audit and are fair, balanced and understandable and Alliance and Leicester plc, Dame Anne Risk Committee has used to carry out its role provide the information necessary for Pringle was a diplomat with the Foreign to review, monitor and provide assurance or shareholders to assess the Companys and Commonwealth Office for over 30 years recommendations to the Board, are sufficient performance, business model and strategy: with extensive experience of Russia and and objective, the Audit and Risk Committee Eastern Europe and Clive Adamson was reviewing the effectiveness of the has adopted an integrated assurance formerly Head of Supervision and Executive Groups internal control and risk approach.
This approach relies not only Director of the Board of the Financial management systems: on the work of the external auditor but also ConductAuthority.
overseeing and challenging the day-to-day management assurances received from risk management and oversight various reports including from the Group arrangements of the executive: Finance Director, Group Head of Risk Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Audit and risk committee report continued Management and also via the existing Financial statements Share-based payments Ashmore governance framework such The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed It is the responsibility of the Remuneration as specialised internal management the FY2015 16 annual report, interim results, Committee to address, and report upon, committees.
Other independent assurance preliminary results and reports from the compensation matters including share-based is received from the Compliance Monitoring external auditor, KPMG LLP, on the outcome payments made to employees of the Group.
Programme and Internal Audit and from the of its reviews and audits in 2016.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers externally audited ISAE 3402 report on the these in its review of the financial Significant accounting matters control environment.
The Group Finance statements and receives a report from During the year the Audit and Risk Director, Group Head of Risk Management the external auditor on the quantification Committee considered key accounting and Group Head of Internal Audit attend each and accounting treatment related to such issues, matters and judgements in relation pre-scheduled meeting of the Audit and Risk payments, which are explained in note 10 to the Groups financial statements and Committee as a matter of practice.
disclosures relating to: The Audit and Risk Committee also has Revenue rebates Classification of seed capital investments responsibility for reviewing the Companys During the year, the ARC reviewed and Ashmore makes seed capital investments arrangements on whistleblowing, ensuring considered the controls, processes and in funds that are managed by Group that appropriate arrangements are in place accounting treatment for fee rebates.
A subsidiaries in order to support future for employees to be able to raise, in report from the external auditor regarding the third-party AuM growth.
These investments confidence, matters of possible impropriety, processing of fee rebates and its treatment can result in Ashmore becoming a controlling with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
on revenue recognition was also received party in the funds.
If at the time of investing and reviewed.
The method of accounting for The Audit and Risk Committee has the in these funds Ashmore expects the period revenue recognition is described more fully authority to seek any information it requires of control to be less than 12 months, the on page 90. to perform its duties from any employee investments are classified as held-for-sale of the Company and to obtain outside legal Future IFRS and UK GAAP developments HFS and consolidated as HFS assets and or other independent professional advice The Audit and Risk Committee has received liabilities rather than on a line-by-line basis.
a report from management and the auditor Indetermining whether the Group controls and discussed future accounting developments these funds, there are three factors which The principal activities of the Audit and Risk likely to affect the presentation of the Groups are taken into consideration, namely 1 Committee through the year, and the manner financial statements.
whether Ashmore has power over the in which it discharged its responsibilities, relevant activities of the funds: 2 whether are described below.
Other accounting matters Ashmore is exposed to variability of returns During the year, the Audit and Risk Meetings through fees and or co-investments: and 3 Committee received communications from The number of Audit and Risk Committee the strength of the linkage between the management and from the external auditor meetings and their attendance by the power and the variable returns.
The third on other accounting matters.
The Committee Directors are set out in the table on page 48. factor is one of the key judgmental areas that has also reviewed the adoption of the going The Audit and Risk Committee met five KPMG focuses upon in its audit due to the concern basis in preparing the interim times in relation to the current financial potential risk that Ashmore has incorrectly and year end consolidated accounts reporting year as part of its standard process assessed the strength of the linkage and considered the longer term viability and also for the purpose of addressing the between the power and the variable returns.
statement for the Group which is described tendering of the Group audit for the financial The accounting treatment for seed capital in more detail on page 34. year commencing on 1 July 2016.
Scheduled investments is addressed more fully in meetings of the Committee take place on UK Corporate Governance Code note20 on pages 106 to 108 of the the day prior to a Board meeting to maximise A further version of the Code the 2016 Code financialstatements.
the efficiency of interaction with the Board.
was issued effective for accounting periods The Chairman of the Audit and Risk commencing on or after 17 June 2016, which Impairment review of the Committee reports to the Board, as part Ashmore has adopted for the financial year carrying value ofintangible assets of a separate agenda item, on the activities ended 30 June 2016.
As more fully explained in note 15 on page of the Committee all Non-executive Directors 101, intangible assets comprise Ashmore External auditor are invited to attend meetings of the Audit Equities Investment Management AEIM The current KPMG audit partner is Jon Mills and Risk Committee.
fund management relationships related to who has signed the FY2015 16 audit report.
profit expected to be earned from clients of The Chairman of the Audit and Risk For the FY2016 17 Jon Mills will rotate off as AEIM.
The fund management relationships Committee also meets on a regular basis, the audit partner and Tom Brown will become are amortised over the estimated useful outside of scheduled committee meetings, the audit partner.
By the time of his rotation economic lives of eight years.
with the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Jon Mills will have been the Ashmore audit Group Head of Risk Management and partner for a period of two years.
The Ethical The Audit and Risk Committee has evaluated Control, the Group Head of Compliance, Standards require that KPMG rotate the audit a report from management and concluded the Group Finance Director and the partners every five years for a listed entity.
that no impairment charge was required external auditors.
against the value of intangible assets relating However, Jon Mills was the Engagement to AEIM fund management relationships.
Quality Control Reviewer partner forAshmore for five years before taking on the audit 50 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance partner role in 2015 and could accordingly production of investment performance to provide a forum to raise any matters only serve in such capacity for two years.
figures over one, three and five-year of concern in confidence.
periods to conform to the investment The external auditor attends all meetings KPMG LLP and its prior entity KPMG management industrys Global Investment of the Audit and Risk Committee.
It is Audit plc have acted as the auditor to the Performance Standards.
the responsibility of the Committee to Company since the IPO in October 2006 and monitor the performance, objectivity and The assurance provided by the Group the lead audit partner rotates every five years independence of the external auditor.
external auditor on the items listed above is to assure independence.
The Audit and Risk Committee discusses considered by the Audit and Risk Committee In order to assess the effectiveness of the and agrees the scope of the audit plan for to be strictly necessary in the interests of the external audit process the Audit and Risk the full year and the review plan for the business and, by their nature, these services Committee asked detailed questions of interim statement with the auditor.
could not easily be provided by another key members of management as well as professional auditing firm.
The external auditor provides reports at each considering the firm-wide audit quality committee meeting on topics such as the The provision of tax advisory services, due inspection report issued by the FRC in May control environment, key accounting matters diligence transaction services and litigation 2016 and KPMGs response to the findings and mandatory communications.
The Audit services may be permitted with the Audit inspection.
Based on this review the and Risk Committee also received a and Risk Committees prior approval.
The Committee concurred with managements comprehensive presentation from the provision of internal audit services, valuation view that there had been appropriate focus auditor demonstrating, to the Committees work and any other activity that may give and challenge of the primary areas of audit satisfaction, how its independence and rise to any possibility of self-review are not risk and assessed the quality of the audit objectivity is maintained when providing permitted under any circumstance.
Accordingly, the Audit non-audit services.
the year there were no circumstances where and Risk Committee continues to be KPMG LLP was engaged to provide services satisfied with the work of KPMG LLP and External auditor independence which might have led to a conflict of interests.
that it continues to remain objective and The Audit and Risk Committee has agreed independent.
The Committee has therefore the types of permitted and non-permitted The Audit and Risk Committee has assessed recommended to the Board that a resolution non-audit services and those which require the impact on the Company of EU legislation be put to shareholders for the reappointment explicit prior approval.
All contracts for introduced in June 2014 which serves to of the auditor, and its remuneration and non-audit services in excess of 25,000 reform the audit market within the EU.
terms of engagement, at the Annual must be notified to the Chairman of the Audit The areas addressed are: General Meeting of the Company.
and Risk Committee and approved by him.
Mandatory audit firm rotation is required Audit tender process During the year the value of non-audit after 20 years and a re-tender process In January 2016 Ashmore invited services provided by KPMG LLP amounted every 10 years.
KPMG has acted as the submissions from three of the big four to 0.4 million FY2014 15: 0.5 million.
Groups auditors since the listing in 2006 auditing firms for the provision of statutory Non-audit services as a proportion of and, as signalled in last years annual audit and certain additional audit related total fees paid to the auditor amount to report, during the year the Committee services for the Ashmore Group.
The overall quantum undertook a comprehensive tender firm, Deloitte was not invited to tender as it of non-audit services is not considered to process for the audit in relation to the already provides independent tax advisory be significant given that Ashmore operates year ending 30 June 2017 which is services to the Group.
within a highly-regulated market and that described in more detail below.
a significant proportion of the non-audit The services covered by the tender Restrictions on non-audit services: The services provided relate to the submission process for Ashmore Group plc legislation restricts the non-audit services following matters: and its subsidiaries were: which can be provided by the auditor.
In compliance with this requirement Deloitte reporting on the half year Group and subsidiary statutory audits provide independent tax advice services financial statements: and financial statements: to the Group.
providing regular mandatory assurance Group interim review and Non-audit service fee limits: The legislation reports to the FCA as the regulator financial statements: also imposes a fee cap of 70% of the of Ashmore Investment Management UK subsidiary statutory audits: average statutory audit fees paid in the Limited and Ashmore Investment Overseas subsidiary audits and financial last three consecutive years.
This cap will Advisors Limited : statements preparation where applicable : enable KPMG to continue to undertake the provision of certain tax assurance, verification and reporting work Group ISAE 3402 Assurance Report compliance services: in other permitted areas described above covering the control environments in reporting on internal controls in Ashmores such as to the FCA, Global Investment London, Washington D. C. and Singapore in offices in London, Washington D. C. and Performance Standards and ISAE 3402. relation to transaction processing for Singapore as required under ISAE 3402 client accounts: From time to time during the year the pursuant to investment management Global Investment Performance Standards Non-executive Directors met with the industry standards: and verification for all portfolios managed by external and internal auditors without the auditing the controls and procedures Ashmore Group plc and by its majority Executive Directors being present so as employed by the Company relating to the owned subsidiaries.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Audit and risk committee report continued The tendering firms submitted written Risk Management, Internal Control and implementation of the assurance framework proposals which were presented to the Related Financial and Business Reporting, and the results of the first assurance review.
Auditand Risk Committee and Ashmore prior to final review by the Board.
Based on this work, and in accordance with management in March 2016.
It was the requirements of the Chartered Institute A detailed description of the risk the unanimous view of the Audit and of Internal Auditors Financial Services management framework and the manner Risk Committee that KPMGs proposal guidance, Internal Audit has provided the inwhich risks are identified and managed comfortably met each of the selection criteria Audit and Risk Committee with its isset out on pages 32 to 37. required by the Audit and Risk Committee, in assessment of the overall effectiveness particular it targeted continuityand stability of the governance and risk andcontrol Internal audit alongside a changeinaudit partner as framework of the organisation.
As a The Head of Internal Audit has regular required under EUreform legislation.
consequence, the Audit and Risk Committee scheduled meetings with the Chairman of is satisfied that the quality, experience and the Audit and Risk Committee and attends The key focus areas leading to the expertise of the Internal Auditfunction is allpre-scheduled meetings of the Committee decision by the Audit and Risk Committee appropriate for the businessand that it to present reports on the internal audit to recommend the retention of the services hasadequate resourcesfor its remit.
findings and on the proposed programme ofKPMG were: ofreviews.
The Audit and Risk Committee Cyber security A unique understanding of the continues to monitor the Internal Audit Plan The Audit and Risk Committee receives Ashmore business: on an ongoing basis to ensure that it remains annual updates from the Ashmore IT relevant to the needs of the business and to An integrated audit approach with Department on potential cyber security ensure that it can be adapted or changed if efficient use of technology: threats and how Ashmore would respond aparticular focus area necessitates this.
The use of specialists, in particular in toa significant event.
the regulatory controls space: and During the year, the Audit and Risk Public funds audits Committee received presentations from Stability and a continued focus on The Audit and Risk Committee met with Internal Audit on the 2013 Chartered Institute innovation and improvement.
andreceived reports from the independent of Internal Auditors Financial Services auditors of Ashmores SICAV, US 40-Act Internal controls and guidance Effective Internal Audit in the andGuernsey public funds on the conduct risk management systems Financial Services Sector and Ashmore has ofthose audits and outcomes from them.
The Group Head of Risk Management adopted the requirements of this guidance in and Control attends each pre-scheduled a proportionate manner.
As part of a further Audit and meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee presentation on internal audit governance, Risk Committee effectiveness and provides reports to each.
These reports the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed A review of the effectiveness of the Board, have addressed a number of risk-related theresults of Internal Audits first self-review its committees and the Directors was topics and have demonstrated how the against the relevant professional standards conducted during the year.
Following the output of the different Investment, Risk ofthe Global Institute of Internal Auditors review the Board and the members of the and Compliance and Pricing and Valuation IIA International Professional Practices Audit and Risk Committee have concluded Methodology Committees discussions Framework IPPF and the Chartered Institute that it is working effectively.
throughout the period have been effective of Internal Auditors Financial Services Protecting shareholder interests in highlighting, tracking and contributing guidance.
No material departures were The Audit and Risk Committee has a role towards managing key market, liquidity, identified in this review.
This report also inensuring that shareholder interests are credit, counterparty and operational risks.
provided assurance that all relevant properly protected in relation to financial In particular, in relation to operational risk, regulatory and or institute-mandated reporting and internal control.
In the course the Audit and Risk Committee has also requirements are being performed and that of its work the Committee considers the reviewed and discussed the Groups Principal there are no specific areas of which internal clarity of its reporting and both the Chairman Risk Matrix which continues to serve as an audit is aware that require additional focus.
of the Audit and Risk Committee and the effective tool to highlight and monitor the The IPPF has a requirement for Senior Independent Director are prepared principal risks facing the Group and its self-assessments to be independently tomeet investors.
continued evolution, and reflects changes validated by an external quality assessment in the business profile of the Group and the at least every five years and Chartered corresponding impact on internal controls David Bennett Institute of Internal Auditors Financial and related processes.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Services guidance also requires an The Audit and Risk Committee also received 5 September 2016 effectiveness review at appropriate an annual report on, and conducted a review intervals.
The Audit and Risk Committee will and evaluation of, the system of internal consider with the internal auditor the scope controls and risk management operated and timing of such an external quality within the Company pursuant to the Financial assessment.
The Committee also received Reporting Council guidance, Guidance on presentations from Internal Audit on the 52 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016
