Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report The quality of $VWUD HQHFDV QDQFLDO reporting is underpinned E HHFWLYH LQWHUQDO controls, appropriate accounting practices and policies, and the exercise of good judgement.
In n n th hi is s R R Re eport w w we des s s sc c cr ri i ib b be e the w wor rk k k o o of f t th h he e Risk management During the year, the Committee regularly $$XXGGGLLLWW &&RRPPPPLLWWWHHHHH DQGG WWWKKKHH VLJQQLLFFFDDDQQQWWW LLLVVVVXXXHHHHVV LW reviewed the Companys approach to risk c c co on ns sid fide ere ed d d i in n 2 20 01 16 6 6... O Ou ur r m m main n p pr ri io o or rit t ti ie es s w we er r re e e e to receive management, its risk reporting framework and risk mitigation.
These discussions also DDDVVVVXXUDDQFFHH RRQQ WWWKKHH VVRRRXXQGGGQQHHVVVVV RRII QQDDQQFFFLLDDOO  provided the context for the Committees HHHHFFFWWLLYYHH UULLVN  DDDQGG  DDDDQQQQGG consideration of the Directors viability statement and the analysis that underpins  ZZZLLLWWWKKK WWKKKHH $$VVVWWWUUUDDD HHQQHFDDDDD &&RRGGGHH RI &&RRQQGGGGGXFWWW the assurance provided by that statement.
DDDQQQGGG UUUHHOOHHHYYYDDQQWW  For more details on the viability statement, please refer to the Risk overview from page 20.
The Committees consideration Financial reporting to ensure that items are appropriately of risk management was supported by The quality of AstraZenecas financial accounted for in Reported and deep dive reviews of key activities such reporting is underpinned by effective internal Core results.
as: supply chain responsiveness: controls, appropriate accounting practices improvements to IS IT infrastructure and and policies, and the exercise of good Following the competitive tender of the the adequacy of cybersecurity: commercial judgement.
The Committee reviewed, at Companys external audit services in 2015 operations in China and the US: and pricing, least quarterly, the Companys significant and the Boards decision to recommend the reimbursement and market access.
Further accounting matters and, where appropriate, appointment of PwC to shareholders at the information on the Companys Principal challenged managements decisions before Companys 2017 AGM, the Committee has Risks are on pages 20 to 21.
The Committee approving the accounting policies applied.
monitored the transition planning to ensure visited the Companys US Commercial head the Company is well prepared for a change ofce in Wilmington and the MedImmune During 2016, the Committee reviewed of external auditors should this be approved leadership team in Gaithersburg to gain aspects of the Groups significant by shareholders.
further insight into emerging risks as the restructuring programmes initiated from Companys strategy develops in a dynamic 2013 onwards, including accounting for In December 2015, the FRC announced external environment.
restructuring charges, control over capital that it would conduct a thematic review of expenditure and arrangements for companies tax reporting to encourage more Compliance with the Code of Conduct monitoring the effective implementation transparent recording of the relationship The Committees priorities continue to of these programmes.
The Committee between the tax charges and accounting include: maintaining compliance with the continued to monitor the inclusion of profit.
The FRC Corporate Reporting Review Companys Code of Conduct: high ethical Externalisation Revenue in AstraZenecas Team subsequently conducted a review of standards: and operating within the law Statement of Comprehensive Income.
the tax disclosures in the Companys in all countries where we conduct business For more information on Externalisation financial statements for the year ended 31 or have interactions.
In 2015, the Company Revenue, please refer to the Financial December 2015 and in 2016 confirmed that had met all of its obligations under its Review from page 62. they had no substantive issues to raise.
The five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement Committee took note of and was satisfied in the US, which terminated in April 2015.
The Committee looked closely at intangible with relevant reports from the regulators that During a visit to the Companys US asset impairment reviews, including reviews exercise routine oversight over the Companys Commercial head ofce in Wilmington, of our FluMist and Ardea intangible assets: external auditors, the FRC and the Public the Committee heard about how the US legal provisions and other related charges, Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Compliance Programme has evolved, after completion of the Corporate Integrity 98 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance Agreement, to maintain strong focus and Audit Committee membership monitoring and reviewing the role, remain relevant, proactively addressing and attendance resources and effectiveness of the key compliance risks.
Throughout 2016, All Committee members are Non-Executive Companys Internal Audit function, its the Committee monitored and reviewed Directors and considered by the Board to Compliance function, the external audit compliance with our Code of Conduct, be independent under the UK Corporate process and the Companys relationship including the effectiveness of our Governance Code.
The Committees with its external auditor anti-bribery and anti-corruption controls, members are Rudy Markham Committee monitoring and reviewing the external across the Group.
The Committee Chairman, Bruce Burlington, Ann Cairns auditors independence and objectivity prioritised its focus on countries where we and Shriti Vadera.
Jean-Philippe Courtois ensuring the provision of non-audit have significant operations and countries was a member of the Committee until services by the external auditor are in which doing business is generally he stepped down from the Board on appropriate and in accordance with policy considered to pose a higher corruption or 1 December 2016. approved by the Committee general compliance risk such as the US, making recommendations to the Board the UK, China, Japan, Nigeria and India.
In December 2016, the Board determined for shareholder approval relating to the that, for the purposes of the UK Corporate appointment, reappointment and removal Engagement with senior leaders Governance Code, at least one Audit of the external auditor, and to approve the The Committee considers it important to Committee member has recent and remuneration and terms of engagement interact with members of management relevant financial experience and that of the external auditor below the SET.
In July, members of the Rudy Markham and Ann Cairns are financial monitoring the Companys response to Committee visited the Companys US experts for the purposes of the Sarbanesany external enquiries and investigations Commercial and MedImmune leadership Oxley Act.
The Board of Directors regarding matters within the Committees teams in Wilmington and Gaithersburg biographies on pages 86 and 87 contain area of responsibility.
We talked to senior leaders details of each Audit Committee members about the opportunities and challenges skills and experience.
Audit Committee meeting minutes are the Company faces, and the current and circulated to the Board.
Following each emerging risks arising from the development The Audit Committee held five meetings in Committee meeting, the Committee and successful delivery to patients of 2016 and Committee members attendance Chairman informs the Board of the principal medicines from our rapidly evolving pipeline.
is set out in the table on page 84. matters the Committee considered and of The Committee also met informally with any significant concerns it has or that have senior leaders from the Operations IS IT, Role and operation of the been reported by the external auditor, the Finance, Legal and Global Payer Evidence Audit Committee Vice-President, IA or the Chief Compliance & Pricing teams.
In June 2016, I participated The Audit Committees terms of officer.
The Committee identies matters in a discussion at the Companys Internal reference are available on our website, that require action or improvement and Audit Services IA team conference on www.
makes recommendations on the steps the role of the Board and Audit Committee to be taken.
generally and at AstraZeneca, and I shared The Committee regularly reports to the my perspective on the importance of the Board on how it discharges its main The Committees work is supported by work of IA in providing assurance on responsibilities, which include: valuable insight gained from its interactions AstraZenecas risk management, controls with other Board Committees, senior and governance generally.
monitoring the integrity of the Companys executives, managers and external experts.
financial reporting and formal Committee meetings are routinely attended Finally, I would like to offer thanks from the announcements relating to its financial by the CFO: the General Counsel: the Chief Committee to Jean-Philippe Courtois, who performance, and reviewing significant Compliance officer: the Vice-President, retired from the Committee on 1 December financial reporting judgements contained IA: the Vice-President Finance, Group 2016, for his valued contribution to the within them Controller: and the Companys external Committee and its work.
ensuring the Companys Annual Report auditor.
The CEO attends on an agendaand Accounts present a fair, balanced driven basis.
We value dialogue with our shareholders and understandable assessment of the and welcome your feedback on this report.
Companys position and prospects In addition, the Committee and separately reviewing the effectiveness of the the Committee Chairman, meet privately Yours sincerely Companys internal financial controls, with the CFO: Chief Compliance officer: internal non-financial controls, risk General Counsel: Vice-President, IA: and management systems including the Companys external auditor on an whistleblowing procedures and individual basis to ensure the effective compliance with laws and the ow of material information between Rudy Markham AstraZeneca Code of Conduct the Committee and management.
Chairman of the Audit Committee AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 99 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Activities of the Audit Committee data from reports made by employees via Matters considered and discussed by the in 2016 the AZethics helpline, online facilities and Audit Committee in addition to its usual During 2016 and in January 2017, the Audit other routes regarding potential breaches business as described above included: Committee considered and discussed the of the Code of Conduct, together with the following standing items: results of enquiries into those matters significant capital expenditure and the reports from the Group Treasury function, execution of restructuring programmes, key elements of the Financial Statements in particular, concerning the Companys including the construction of the new and the estimates and judgements liquidity and cash position and the strategic bioscience site and corporate contained in the Companys financial appropriateness of its investment head ofce in Cambridge, UK and review disclosures.
Accounting matters management policy in the context of of historic restructuring programmes considered included the areas described the current economic situation the level of assurance regarding the in the Financial Review under Critical the going concern assessment and effective integration of recently acquired accounting policies and estimates with adoption of the going concern basis entities and their compliance with Group a focus on accounting issues relevant to in preparing this Annual Report and the policies and governance arrangements revenue recognition, litigation and taxation Financial Statements.
More information regular updates from the IT team with matters, goodwill and intangible asset on the basis of preparation of Financial particular attention to cybersecurity impairment from page 77 and other Statements on a going concern basis and the progress of the Groups IT important matters such as monitoring is set out in the Financial Statements infrastructure transformation, including the accounting for Externalisation on page 142 the set-up of the global technology centre Revenue in the Groups Consolidated the preparation of the Directors viability in Chennai, India and related business Statement of Comprehensive Income.
statement and the adequacy of the continuity arrangements, noting a new The Committee reviewed the Companys analysis supporting the assurance global technology centre in Guadalajara, denition of Externalisation Revenue provided by that statement Mexico has become operational against market practice, and individual quarterly reports from the General supply chain responsiveness for launches judgements on items falling within that Counsel on the status of significant of new products, in particular biologics, denition.
Discussion of these matters litigation matters and governmental including critical capabilities and robust was supported by papers prepared by investigations processes that will support delivery of the management and the external auditor, audit and non-audit fees of the external evolving pipeline and input from the Science Committee auditor during 2016, including the opportunities, challenges, compliance as appropriate objectivity and independence of the and risk management discussed with the the external auditors reports on its audit external auditor through the application US commercial business leadership team of the Group Financial Statements, and of the Non-Audit Services Policy as and MedImmune leadership team during reports from management, IA, Global described further below.
Further the Committees visit to the Companys Compliance and the external auditor on information about the audit and non-audit Wilmington and Gaithersburg sites the effectiveness of our system of internal fees for 2016 is disclosed in Note 30 to key compliance risks arising from our controls and, in particular, our internal the Financial Statements on page 192 activities in China, including the control over financial reporting the Audit Committee conducted the effectiveness of controls, noting senior quarterly reports of work carried out by annual evaluation of its own performance leaderships continued focus on a strong IA, Global Compliance and Finance with each Committee member compliance and ethics culture as the including the status of follow-up actions responding to a web-based questionnaire China business grows with management prepared by an external third party.
consideration of major trends regarding the Companys principal, enduring and The effectiveness review of the Audit pricing, reimbursement and market emerging risks, including the Companys Committee was assessed as high access for biopharmaceuticals, and risk management approach, risk reporting performing with a good balance struck the key external and internal risks the framework and risk mitigation.
More between the necessary rigour and a Company faces information about the principal risks faced holistic understanding of issues under monitoring the external audit transition by the Company is set out in the Risk consideration, quality engagement with process to ensure an effective transition overview section from page 20 the business outside formal meetings, of the Groups external auditors in 2017, compliance with applicable provisions of and appropriate attention given to the subject to shareholders approval to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In particular, the external auditor transition appoint the new external auditor at the status of compliance with the programme effectiveness review of Internal Audit, Companys AGM in April 2017 of internal controls over financial reporting which noted an external assessment the Groups approach to taxation noting implemented pursuant to Section 404 of of IA observed that the function is well that AstraZeneca aims to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee respected and trusted, providing tax laws in the countries in which it does continued its focus on IT controls in the assurance that is aligned to the business and is committed to transparent context of the changes to the Groups IT Companys risk prole and welland constructive relationships with all environment.
More information about this coordinated with the other risk and relevant tax authorities is set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act assurance functions.
IA continues to build Section 404 section of the Financial its capabilities seeking opportunities for Review on page 81 continuous improvement.
100 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance relevance to the Company of new a significant development milestone such liabilities is set out in Note 28 to the Financial Compliance and Disclosure Interpretations as the publication of clinical trial results Statements from page 185. issued by the SEC on the use of which could signicantly alter managements non-GAAP measures, in particular the forecasts for the product.
Tax accounting disclosure of and prominence given The Audit Committee reviewed the to non-GAAP measures and the In 2016, the Audit Committee considered Companys approach to tax including appropriateness of items removed from specic impairment review papers and governance, risk management and GAAP numbers in arriving at non-GAAP supporting information on the Groups compliance, tax planning, dealings measures FluMist and Ardea intangible assets.
with tax authorities and the level of tax proposals for the Directors Slavery The FluMist impairment review included risk the Company is prepared to accept.
and Human Trafcking Statement detailed consideration of the impact The full statement, which was published and the adequacy of the arrangements of the announcement in June 2016 by in November 2016, can be found at supporting the assurance provided by the Advisory Committee on Immunization www.
In 2016, following that statement, and preparation for Practices of the Center for Disease a review by the FRC designed to encourage compliance with the Market Abuse Control and Prevention of an interim more transparent recording of the relationship Regulation before it came into force recommendation on the use of FluMist between the tax charges and accounting on 3 July 2016 Quadrivalent in the US during the 2016 2017 profit, the FRC confirmed that they had monitoring the resource requirements inuenza season.
The Ardea intangible no substantive issues to raise in respect of key control functions Finance, IA, asset impairment review included of the tax disclosures in the Companys Compliance with particular reference considerations in both the gout indication 2015 accounts.
The FRC has noted that to succession planning and the potential as well as indications in the CVMD their review does not provide assurance impact of ongoing restructuring on the therapy area.
The Audit Committee that our report and accounts are correct effectiveness of risk and control processes.
obtained valuable input from the Science in all material respects and that the Committee for this review.
The Audit FRCs role is not to verify the information 6LJQLFDQW QDQFLDO UHSRUWLQJ LVVXHV Committee agreed with the conclusion provided but to consider compliance considered by the Audit Committee that no impairment was required.
in 2016 Revenue recognition In 2016, there were no significant Retirement benefits The US is our largest single market and impairments of intangible assets.
Pension accounting continues to be a sales accounted for 35% of our Product significant area of focus recognising the Sales in 2016.
Revenue recognition, Litigation and contingent liabilities level of pension fund deficit and its sensitivity particularly in the US, is impacted by The Audit Committee was regularly to small changes in interest rates, which rebates, chargebacks, cash discounts informed by the General Counsel the Committee continues to monitor and returns for more information, please and external auditor about IP litigation, carefully.
The Audit Committee reviewed see the Financial Review from page 62. product liability actions and governmental the Companys dened benefit pension The Audit Committee pays particular investigations that might result in fines or global funding objective and principles, attention to managements estimates of damages against the Company, to assess focusing in particular on the Companys these items, its analysis of any unusual whether provisions should be taken and, main dened benefit pensions obligations movements and their impact on revenue if so, when and in what amount.
Of the in the UK, Sweden and the US, and the recognition informed by commentary matters the Committee considered in dened benefit plans in Germany.
2016, the most significant included: FCPA investigation US : Nexium anti-trust litigation Internal controls Valuation and possible impairment US : Pulmicort Respules patent litigation The Audit Committee receives a report of of intangible assets US : Faslodex patent litigation US and the matters considered by the Disclosure The Group carries significant intangible Europe : and Crestor damages claims Committee during each quarter.
At the assets on its Balance Sheet arising from Australia.
The US FCPA investigation was January 2017 meeting, the CFO presented the acquisition of businesses and IP rights resolved in 2016 following a civil settlement to the Committee the conclusions of the to medicines in development and on the agreed with the SEC: the DOJ closed its CEO and the CFO following the evaluation market.
Each quarter, the CFO outlines investigation without taking action against of the effectiveness of our disclosure the carrying value of the Groups intangible the Company.
Notwithstanding the controls and procedures required by Item assets and, in respect of those intangible Companys success defending the claims 15 a of Form 20-F at 31 December 2016. assets that are identied as at risk of in the Nexium anti-trust case, the plaintiffs Based on their evaluation, the CEO and the impairment, the difference between the continue to seek opportunities to assert CFO concluded that, as at that date, we carrying value and managements current their claims.
Faslodex patent litigation maintained an effective system of disclosure estimate of discounted future cash ows for continues in the US and Europe.
at risk products the headroom.
Products Settlements have been reached with lead will be identied as at risk because the litigants in the US.
Further information about headroom is small or, for example, in the the Companys litigation and contingent case of a medicine in development, there is AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 101 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued There was no change in our internal control categories of work: audit services: Fees paid to the auditor for audit, over financial reporting that occurred during audit-related services: and tax services.
audit-related and other services are the period covered by this Annual Report The policies define the type of work that analysed in Note 30 to the Financial that has materially affected, or is reasonably falls within each of these categories and Statements on page 192.
Fees for non-audit likely to materially affect, our internal control the non-audit services that the external services amounted to 29% of the fees paid over financial reporting.
auditor is prohibited from performing to KPMG for audit, audit-related and other under the rules of the SEC and other services in 2016.
Appointing the auditor relevant UK and US professional and As we reported in 2012, the Audit regulatory requirements.
The pre-approval $VVHVVLQJ H[WHUQDO DXGLW HHFWLYHQHVV Committee determined that the audit would procedures permit certain audit, auditIn accordance with its normal practice, be put out to tender by 2018 in accordance related and tax services to be performed the Audit Committee considered the with the UK Corporate Governance Code by the external auditor during the year, performance of KPMG and its compliance and guidance issued by the FRC.
KPMG subject to fee limits agreed with the with the independence criteria under the was first appointed as sole external auditor Audit Committee in advance.
The Audit relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical to Zeneca Group PLC in 1993 and to Committee is mindful of the 70% non-audit standards applicable to auditors.
Having AstraZeneca PLC in 2001 following a services fee cap under EU regulation, considered all these factors Judgement, competitive tender.
Anthony Cates is the together with the overall proportion Mind-set & Culture, Skills, Character & current lead audit partner at KPMG of fees for audit and non-audit services Knowledge and Quality Control and following lead partner rotation in 2013. in determining whether to pre-approve changes in audit approach in response to such services.
nding and comments in the Audit Quality Having concluded the competitive tender Review report performed by the FRC process in December 2015, the Audit The CFO supported by the Vice-President issued in May 2016.
The Audit Committee Committee recommended to the Board that Finance, Group Controller, monitors the concluded that the KPMG audit was PwC be appointed as the Groups statutory status of all services being provided by effective for the financial year commencing auditor for the 2017 financial year.
The Audit the external auditor.
Committee confirmed in September 2016 work in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits that PwC is independent under SEC and is delegated to the Chairman of the Audit UK independence regulations.
A resolution Committee together with one other to approve the appointment of PwC will be Audit Committee member in the first put to shareholders at the Companys instance.
A standing agenda item at AGM in 2017.
Audit Committee meetings covers the operation of the pre-approval procedures The Audit Committee considers that and regular reports are provided to the the Company has complied with the full Audit Committee.
Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for Large In 2016, non-audit services provided to the Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Company by KPMG included the audit of a Use of Competitive Tender Processes and product line required as part of the disposal Audit Committee Responsibilities Order of this asset, audit services in relation to 2014 in respect of its financial year employee benefit funds such as the audit commencing 1 January 2016. of subsidiary company pension funds and, tax compliance services.
KPMG was Non-audit services and safeguards considered better placed to provide these The Audit Committee maintains a policy the services, in terms of skills, capability and Audit and Non-Audit Services Pre Approval efficiency, than any alternative audit rm.
Policy for the pre-approval of all audit All such services were either within the services and permitted non-audit services scope of the pre-approved services set undertaken by the external auditor, the out in the Non-Audit Services Policy or principal purpose of which is to ensure that were presented to Audit Committee the independence of the external auditor members for pre-approval.
The policy covers three 102 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016
