Corporate Governance Board of Directors as at 31 December 2016 1 Leif Johansson 65 Non-Executive Chairman of the Board April 2012 Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience From 1997 to 2011, Leif was Chief Executive officer of AB Volvo.
Prior to that, he 1 2 served at AB Electrolux, latterly as Chief Executive officer from 1994 to 1997.
He was a Non-Executive Director of BMS from 1998 to September 2011, serving on the Boards Audit Committee, and Compensation and Management Development Committee.
He holds an MSc in engineering from Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg.
Other appointments Leif is Chairman of global telecommunications company, LM Ericsson.
He holds board positions at Autoliv, Inc and Ecolean 3 4 AB.
He has been a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 1994, serving as Chairman since 2012.
Leif is also a member of the European Round Table of Industrialists and Chairman of the International Advisory Board of the Nobel Foundation.
2 Pascal Soriot 57 Executive Director and CEO October 2012 Skills and experience Pascal brings a passion for science and medicine as well as significant 5 6 experience in established and emerging markets, strength of strategic thinking, a successful track record of managing change and executing strategy, and the ability to lead a diverse organisation.
He served as Chief Operating officer of Roches pharmaceuticals division from 2010 to September 2012 and, prior to that, Chief Executive officer of Genentech, a biologics business, where he led its successful merger with Roche.
Pascal joined the pharmaceutical industry in 1986 and has worked 7 8 in senior management roles in numerous major companies around the world.
He is a doctor of veterinary medicine cole Nationale Vtrinaire dAlfort, Maisons-Alfort and holds an MBA from HEC, Paris.
3 Marc Dunoyer 64 Executive Director and CFO November 2013 Skills and experience Marcs career in pharmaceuticals, which has included periods withRoussel Uclaf, Hoechst Marion Roussel and 9 10 GlaxoSmithKline GSK, has given him extensive industry experience, including finance and accounting: corporate strategy and planning: research and development: sales and marketing: business reorganisation: and business development.
Marc is a qualied accountant and joined AstraZeneca in 2013, serving as Executive Vice-President, GPPS from June to October 2013.
Prior to that, he served as Global Head of Rare Diseases at GSK and concurrently Chairman, GSK Japan.
He holds an MBA from HEC, Paris and a Bachelor of Law degree from Paris University.
86 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance 4 Rudy Markham 70 7 Ann Cairns 59 9 Shriti Vadera 54 Senior independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director April 2014 Non-Executive Director January 2011 April 2015.
Member of the Board since Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Member of the Audit September 2008 Audit Committee Committee and the Remuneration Committee Committee membership Chairman of the Skills and experience Ann has more than 20 Skills and experience Shriti has significant AuditCommittee and member of the years experience as a senior leader, having held knowledge of global finance, emerging markets and  and Nomination management positions across Europe and the public policy.
She has advised governments, banks andGovernance Committee US, and has previously run global retail, commercial and investors on the Eurozone crisis, the banking Skills and experience Rudy has significant and investment banking operations.
As president sector, debt restructuring and markets.
She has international business and financial experience, of International Markets at MasterCard, Ann is served as a G20 Adviser and a Minister in the UK having formerly held various senior commercial and responsible for the management, growth and Cabinet Ofce and Business Department and financial positions with Unilever, culminating in his expansion of all markets and customer-related International Development Department.
She has appointment as its Chief Financial officer.
He also activities outside of North America.
Prior to also served on the Council of Economic Advisers, served as a Non-Executive Director of the UK MasterCard, in 2011, Ann oversaw the European HM Treasury, where she focused on business and Financial Reporting Council from 2007 to 2012 and liquidation of Lehman Brothers Holdings international economic issues.
Prior to that, Shriti formerly as Chairman and a Non-Executive Director International and was the Chief Executive, spent 14 years in investment banking with SG of Moorelds Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust.
Transaction Banking at ABN AMRO.
will join the board of directors of Intercontinental Other appointments Rudy is a non-executive Other appointments Shriti is Chairman of Exchange, Inc. a company listed on the New York member of the Boards of United Parcel Services Inc. Santander UK plc and Senior Independent Director Stock Exchange.
Ann holds a Pure Mathematics and Legal & General plc.
He is also Vice Chairman of BHP Billiton.
degree from Shefeld University and an MSc of the Supervisory Board of Corbion NV formerly 10 Marcus Wallenberg 60 from Newcastle University.
Among her many CSM NV, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Non-Executive Director April 1999 accomplishments, Ann has been an award-winning Management Accountants and a Fellow of the research engineer and was the first woman qualied Committee membership Member of the Science Association of Corporate Treasurers.
to go offshore in Britain.
Ann is a champion of Committee 5 Genevive Berger 61 inclusion digital, financial and gender and is also Non-Executive Director April 2012 Skills and experience Marcus has international a member of the World Food Programme business experience across various industry investment committee.
Committee membership Member of the Science sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry Committee and oversees sustainability matters on 8 Graham Chipchase 53 from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999. behalf of the Board Non-Executive Director April 2012 Other appointments Marcus is Chairman of Skills and experience Genevive was Chief Committee membership Chairman of the Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Saab AB and Science officer at Unilever PLC and a member Remuneration Committee and member of the FAM AB.
He is a member of the boards of Investor of the Unilever Leadership Executive from 2008 to Nomination and Governance Committee AB, Temasek Holdings Limited, and the Knut and April2014.
She holds three doctorates in physics, Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
Skills and experience Graham served as Chief human biology and medicine and was appointed Executive officer of global consumer packaging Professor of Medicine at lUniversit Pierre et Marie company, Rexam PLC from 2010 to 2016 after Date of appointment.
Her previous positions include serving at Rexam as Group Director, Plastic Professor and Hospital Practitioner at lHpital fide la Packaging and Group Finance Director.
Previously, Piti-Salptrire in Paris: Director of the Biotech and he was Finance Director of Aerospace Services at Agri-Food Department: Head of the Technology the global engineering group GKN PLC from 2001 Directorate at the French Ministry of Research and to 2003.
After starting his career with Coopers & Technology: Director General, at the Centre National Lybrand Deloitte, he held various finance roles in fide la Recherche Scientique: and Chairman of the the industrial gases company The BOC Group PLC Health Advisory Board of the EU Commission.
now part of The Linde Group.
He is a Fellow of the Other appointments In May 2015, Genevive was Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and appointed as a Director of Air Liquide S. A. for a term Wales and holds an MA Hons in chemistry from of four years.
She is currently Chief Research officer Oriel College, Oxford.
at Firmenich SA, Geneva, Switzerland.
Other appointments In January 2017, Graham 6 Bruce Burlington 68 joined Brambles Limited, the Sydney-listed supply Non-Executive Director August 2010 chain logistics company, as CEO designate, and will become CEO from 20 February 2017.
Committee membership Chairman of the Science Committee and member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee Skills and experience Bruce is a pharmaceutical product development and regulatory affairs consultant and brings extensive experience in these areas.
He spent 17 years with the FDA, serving as Director of its Center for Devices and Radiological Health, as well as holding various senior roles in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
After leaving the FDA, he held various senior executive positions at Wyeth now part of Pzer.
Other appointments Bruce is a Non-Executive Director of the International Partnership for Microbicides.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 87
