46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY For the same reason, we generated less 59%wasgenerated from the use of Waste management energy from renewable sources thisyear: bagasse and other renewable sources.
In 2016, we generated just over 11,300GWh compared with 12,500GWh 1milliontonnes of waste.
However, 49% of the total We developed detailed reporting guidance or787,000 tonnes was diverted from energy consumed across the group this for our companies including estimation landfill because we reused or recovered it year was fromrenewable fuel sources.
methodologies and assumptions which for a beneficial purpose.
Of the remainder, have taken into account guidance from 5,500 tonnes was hazardous waste, Greenhouse gas emissions ISO 14064 1 and the Greenhouse Gas a6% reduction on the previous year, In 2016, our total greenhouse gas GHG Protocol.
See our CR Reporting Guidance and211,000 tonnes was non-hazardous emissions fell by 9% to 8.7 million tonnes 2016 at www.
co. uk responsibility for waste, a decrease of 4%.
our GHG methodology and more detail Gross emissions from energy, transport, about how we quantify our emissions Environmental compliance our processes and agriculture all fell.
In 2016, 93% of our sites operated without any environmental complaints.
79% of our total emissions came Water usage and disposal We received 62 complaints during fromthe energy we use in factories, of waste water theyear, 12 more than last year.
11% In 2016, we abstracted 800 million m Wealsoreceived ten environmental were generated by the transportation ofwater, a decrease of 14% compared fines totalling41,000, six more ofourgoods and people, by owned with 2015.
In the main, this is due to thanwe received in 2015. orthird-party vehicles.
We report the Illovos reduction in water abstracted for emissions and fuel types associated agricultural use because of the extreme The majority of complaints related with vehicle movement of materials for dry weather in many parts of southern toodour, noise, discharge standards for which we are responsible including: raw Africa.
There was inadequate water effluent, and transportation.
The sites are materials, ingredients, packaging, waste, inthe rivers and other water sources engaged with relevant stakeholders to processing aids, and finished products by tofulfil irrigation requirements.
maintain good relations and are working land, sea or air.
Process emissions from, with regulators to help us meetor for example, the production of enzymes, Of the total amount abstracted exceed regulatory standards.
bread baking or the on-site treatment bythegroup, 30% was used in our ofwaste water, accounted for 8% of the premises and 70% was for agricultural Fatal injuries total emissions.
Agricultural emissions purposes, primarily to irrigate our This year, over 130,000 employees accounted for theremaining 2%.
extensive own-grown sugar cane fields andnumerous contractors worked insouthernAfrica and sugar beet fields forAssociated British Foods across As the combustion of sugar cane biomass in Spain.
Ofthe water we abstract, a 50countries, with a range of skills, is regarded as carbon neutral, we also large amount returns to the watercourse expertise andbackgrounds.
Safeguarding disclose our net emissions, i. e. those as part of the natural water cycle.
the wellbeing, health and safety of from conventional fossil fuels, which ourpeople and those who work with were 4.9 million tonnes of CO2e.
This This year, 20 sites reused treated waste uscontinues to be a group priority.
is 7% lower than last year which reflects water for a beneficial purpose before the overall decrease inenergy used.
returning it to the natural watercourse.
Loss of life in our operations is entirely 27% was reused mainly for irrigation.
unacceptable and we deeply regret Of the 6.5 million tonnes of CO2e This reduces the amount of water the thatthere werethree fatalities emittedby ourSugar division, sites need to abstract.
They were the Our greenhouse gas emissions 2016 emissions 2015 emissions Types of energy used in 2016 % tCO2e tCO2e Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 7,645,000 8,526,000 2 3 Purchased electricity and steam 1,054,000 1,081,000 8 Total gross emissions 8,699,000 9,607,000 10 Generation and use of renewable energy 3,807,000 4,361,000 49 Total net emissions 4,892,000 5,246,000 Emission intensity gross 649 tonnes per 751 tonnes per 1m of revenue 1m of revenue 28 Gross emissions by business division Sugar 6,468,000 74% 6,802,000 71% Other 2,231,000 26% 2,805,000 29% Renewable fuels 49% Electricity 8% Natural gas 28% Imported steam 3% Total gross emissions includes emissions from the use of energy within our factories and stores, Solid fuels 10% Liquid fuels 2% ourmanufacturing processes, the operation of owned and third-party vehicles and from directly controlled agricultural activities.
See our CR Reporting Guidance 2016 at www.
co. uk responsibility for our GHGmethodology and more detail about how we quantify our emissions including emission scopes.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 47 resultofavehicle accident, a fall from workplace safety and employee wellbeing, Reportable injuries heightandan accident involving large and is supported by our commitment to moving machinery.
Training continues 445 443 372 465 454 ensure compliance with The Universal tobe provided to all employees and Declaration of Human Rights.
We value contractors on the importance of our ongoing engagement and collaboration following safe working procedures with a broad range of interested and andusing safety equipment such as concerned stakeholder groups.
We safety harnesses and seat belts.
areactive in our collaborative approach, seeking to remain sensitive to the risk Thorough root cause investigations ofbreaching human rights resulting from ofallfatalities are conducted to identify our products, services and operations.
opportunities to strengthen our controls.
12 13 14 15 16 The findings are shared beyond the site As a matter of good practice, we with the rest of the group to ensure that risk-assess the impact that our operations Details of our health and safety reporting can allof our businesses learn from their may have on the protection and respect be found in our CRReporting Guidance 2016 at www.
All work-related fatalities of human rights.
We ensure a greater arereported to thegroup board and focus on operations under the jurisdiction localmanagement isheld to account.
of governments that have alesser involved were required to report commitment to the protection of totheGroup Safety and Environment Injuries to employees humanrights.
Manager on their remedial actions During 2016, we recorded 454 andare now compliant.
Addressing modern slavery Thisrepresents a reduction in our Modern slavery is a global issue that Gender diversity reportable injuries to 0.47%.
We also requires global action.
It can occur in many We are committed to running had a 2%decrease in employee Lost different forms including, but not limited businesses which attract and retain Time Injuries LTIs.
Overall, 61% of to, forced labour, child labour, domestic thebest female talent by creating a ourfactories and stores achieved a servitude or human trafficking.
As an culture that is welcoming to women.
yearsoperation without any reportable international business we have a role to Theproportion of women in each injuriesand 48% did not have an LTI.
play in eliminating these practices as well ofourbusinesses varies but, overall, as respecting human rights across our thesplit is close to equal in the last During 2016, our businesses invested own operations and supply chains.
year the percentage of women in the 36m in health and safety, including workforce was 48%.
A third of our 14m specifically on major safety We value our ongoing engagement senior management positions 32% improvement projects.
andcollaboration with a broad range of areheld by women and we continue interested and concerned stakeholder tostrive to increase this.
Health and safety fines groups.
We operate in 50 countries During 2016, we received two safety andour supply chains are far-reaching Human rights fines totalling 4,600 for breaches and complex.
The steps we take to Associated British Foods promotes ofsafety regulations.
The number of trytoensure that any forms of modern human rights and dignity through the fines is half that of last year despite an slavery are not present within our own employment we create, both directly increase in the number of operating operations or supply chains areset andindirectly in our global supply chains, sitesduring the year.
The fines were outinour Modern Slavery Statement and through the positive contribution fornotmaintaining relevant authority whichcan be downloaded from our ourproducts make to peoples lives.
permissions and for breaching noise website atwww.
co. uk modern Ourcommitment to respect human atwork regulations.
rights is founded on a strong ethos of Gender metrics Associated British Foods plc board directors are not included in the table below.
We currently have two women and seven men on the Companys board.
Includes directorships of subsidiary undertakings.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 48 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT IS CENTRAL TOTHE BOARDS ROLE IN PROVIDING STRATEGIC OVERSIGHT AND STEWARDSHIP OF THE GROUP Risk management Group functional heads including Reporting our principal risks In order to deliver our strategic plans, Legal, Treasury, Tax, IT, Pensions, anduncertainties webelieve we must understand and HRand Insurance also provide input to The groups principal risks and respond appropriately to risks and also thisprocess, sharing with the Director uncertainties identified by the above consider whether additional business ofFinancial Control their view of key process during 2016 are detailed in the opportunities can be realised through risks and what activities are in place or following tables.
They are grouped into effective risk management.
A summary external risks, which may occur in the ofthese risk assessments is then markets or environment in which we We require all of our businesses to sharedand discussed with the Group operate, and operational risks, which implement appropriate levels of risk Finance Director and Chief Executive arerelated to internal activity linked to management to ensure compliance atleastannually.
our own operations and internal controls.
withrelevant legislation, our overriding The Changes since 2015 highlight business principles and group policies The board undertakes an annual thesignificant variations in the profile relating to them.
reviewof the material risks facing our ofourprincipal risks or describe our businesses together with the internal experience and activity over the We have embedded a process control procedures and resources last year.
foridentifying risks and put in place devoted to them.
It also monitors the activities to mitigate them.
Our groups exposure to these risks as part These are the principal risks of the decentralised business model of the performance reviews undertaken groupas a whole and are not in any empowers the management of our at each board meeting.
The operational businesses to identify, evaluate and arereviewed by the Audit committee andproduct diversity of the group manage the risks they face on a and all other risks are reviewed by reduces the impact that any one timelybasis.
The collated risks from theboard.
businessrisk canhave on the eachbusiness are shared with the groupsresults.
respectivedivisional chief executives The Director of Financial Control holds who present their divisional risks to meetings with each of the non-executive The UKs decision to leave the thegroup executive.
directors seeking their feedback on EuropeanUnion has had some thereviews performed and discussing immediate impact on our results as a The groups Director of Financial Control the key risks and mitigating activities.
consequence of theeffect on currency receives the risk assessments on an Once all non-executive directors have markets, but theextent to which our annual basis and, with the Group Finance been consulted, a board report is operations and financial performance Director, reviews them with the divisional prepared summarising the full process areaffected in the longer term will only chief executives.
These risks and their and providing an assessment of the become apparent as details emerge impact on business performance are status of risk management across the ofhow the exit is tobe engineered.
reported during the year and are group.
The key risks, mitigating controls Bothat a group andindividual business considered as part of the monthly and relevant policies are summarised.
level, we are preparing for changes management review process.
This report also details when formal inlegislation, tradeagreements and updates, relating to the key risks, will working practices and formulating plans beprovided to the board throughout to take advantage of the changing theyear.
landscape and to mitigate risk.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 49 EXTERNAL RISKS Mitigation Changes since 2015 MOVEMENT IN EXCHANGE RATES Businesses impacted by exchange rate Exchange rates between sterling and some AND INFLATION volatility, specifically those manufacturing of our major trading currencies have changed orpurchasing in one currency and selling in markedly this year.
Context and potential impact another, constantly review their currency Associated British Foods is a The net impact on adjusted operating profit related exposures.
multinationalgroup with operations for 2015 16 from the translation of overseas andtransactions in many currencies.
Board approved policies require businesses results into sterling was a gain of 5m to hedge, using foreign exchange forward compared with the prior year but, as a Changes in exchange rates give rise contracts, all transactional currency exposures, resultof our hedging strategies, this has totransactional exposures within and long-term supply or purchase contracts hadonly a limited transactional impact in thebusinesses and to translation which give rise to currency exposures.
the financial year although the impact on exposures when the assets, liabilities margins will be more evident next year.
andresults ofoverseas entities Borrowings are largely maintained in the aretranslated into sterling functional currency of the local operations.
The fall in long-term bond yields, particularly uponconsolidation.
since the EU referendum, had a substantial Cross currency swaps are used to align impact on the valuation of the groups borrowings with the underlying currencies Risk trend defined benefit pension obligations.
ofthe groups net assets: refer to note 25 to Increased However, it is well within the groups the financial statements in the annual report capacity to fund the future requirements for more information.
ofall of the groups pension schemes.
Mitigation Changes since 2015 FLUCTUATIONS IN COMMODITY We constantly monitor the markets in which Our businesses have been less affected AND ENERGY PRICES we operate and manage certain of these bychanges in commodity prices this year.
exposures through the use of exchange EU and world sugar prices have increased Context and potential impact traded contracts and hedging instruments.
and are expected to benefit our EU sugar Changes in commodity and energy business in the coming year.
prices can have a material impact The commercial implications of commodity onthegroups operating results, price movements are continuously assessed assetvalues and cash flows.
and, where appropriate, are reflected in the pricing of our products.
Risk trend Unchanged Mitigation Changes since 2015 OPERATING IN GLOBAL MARKETS Our approach to risk management AB Sugar continued to reduce its cost Context and potential impact incorporates potential short-term market basewith the benefit of its performance Operating in 50 countries with a volatility and evaluates longer-term improvement programme.
It is preparing supplychain covering even more, socio-economic and political scenarios.
forthe removal of sugar quotas in the EU weareexposed to global market from October 2017 and consideration is The groups financial control framework forces, fluctuations in national being given to the implications for British and board adopted tax and treasury economies, societal and political Sugar of the EU referendum.
policies require all businesses to comply changes, a range ofconsumer fully with relevant local laws.
Provision Primark continues to learn from its early concernsand evolving legislation.
ismade for known issues basedon experience in the US and has taken this Failure to recognise and respond managements interpretation ofcountryintoaccount when opening the further toanyof these factors could specific tax law and the likelyoutcome.
directlyimpact the profitability We engage with governments, local ofouroperations.
regulators and community organisations Entering new markets is a risk tocontribute to, and anticipate important toanybusiness.
Extensive research is conducted into Risk trend eachnew market that Primark enters, Unchanged and, in thecase of its entry into the USwhere there was no existing local infrastructure, care has been taken to limitcapital investment to a minimum.
Expansion into new markets in Europe issupported by our existing business which has extensive experience of developing asuccessful retail business model across western Europe.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 50 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EXTERNAL RISKS CONTINUED Mitigation Changes since 2015 HEALTH AND NUTRITION Recipes are regularly reviewed and Our businesses continued to review Context and potential impact reformulated to improve the nutritional theirproducts and to partner with others Failure to respond appropriately valueof our grocery products, all of which toenable a swift and innovative response tohealth and nutrition concerns in are labelled with nutritional information.
theformulation of our products could We develop partnerships with other Our Sugar and Grocery businesses have result in adverse consumer reaction.
organisations to help educate consumers supported healthy eating campaigns during We must also act responsibly across about making healthy choices.
the year to help consumers make informed thespectrum of food poverty and choices about their food.
Risk trend Unchanged OPERATIONAL RISKS Mitigation Changes since 2015 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety continues to be the number one Regrettably, there were three fatalities Context and potential impact priority for our businesses with active thisyear all of which were unrelated Many of our operations, by their endorsement and accountability from andoccurred in our African operations.
nature, have the potential for injuries thechief executives of each business.
Twowerethe result of contractors failing and fatal accidents to employees, tocomply with group health and safety Our Health and Safety policy and contractors andvisitors.
A thorough root-cause analysis practicesare firmly embedded in each wasundertaken following each accident business, supporting a strong ethos Risk trend andlessons learned have been widely ofworkplace safety.
Unchanged shared across the business.
Independent audits are conducted  and support continuous improvement.
Best practice safety and occupational healthtraining and guidance are shared across the businesses, co-ordinated from the corporate centre, to supplement the delivery of their own training programmes.
Mitigation Changes since 2015 PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY Across the group, product safety is In the UK, AB Agri implemented Context and potential impact putbefore economic considerations.
aprocesstotrack the compliance of As a leading food manufacturer allsuppliers with a range of product Our businesses employ quality control andretailer it is fundamental that qualityassurance schemes.
specialists and operate strict policies wemanage the safety and integrity withinan organisational culture of ofour products throughout the hygieneand product safety to ensure that supplychain.
consistently high standards are maintained inour operations and in the sourcing and Risk trend handling of raw materials and garments.
Unchanged We monitor the regulatory environment andemerging scientific research while reviewing our food safety systems for efficacy and legal compliance.
A programme of independent food qualityand safety audits is undertaken across allofour manufacturing sites andadue diligence programme is inplacetoensure the safety of our retailproducts.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 51 OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Mitigation Changes since 2015 OUR USE OF NATURAL We aim to go beyond environmental The environmental performance of RESOURCESAND MANAGING compliance.
thegroup, with updates by division, isreportedin the 2016 Corporate OURENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Our businesses employ environmental Responsibility report at specialists who use the best available Context and potential impact www.
technologies and techniques to reduce Our businesses rely on a stable ouruse of consumables, adapt operations supplyofnatural resources some toclimate change and reduce our ofwhich are vulnerable to external environmental footprint.
factors such as natural disasters We report group environmental andclimate change.
performanceevery year in our Corporate Our operations give rise to a Responsibility and Annual Reports as rangeofemissions including dust, wellasthe voluntary CDP disclosure wastewaterand waste which, formerly Carbon Disclosure Project.
ifnotcontrolled, couldlead to a risktotheenvironment and our localcommunities.
Risk trend Unchanged Mitigation Changes since 2015 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN AND Our Supplier Code of Conduct is designed Our businesses have continued to ETHICALBUSINESS PRACTICES toensure suppliers, representatives and all engagewith key suppliers on a range with whom we deal, adhere to our values ofshared issues such as maximising Context and potential impact and standards.
The full Code is available environmental and cost efficiencies, Our suppliers are essential to the atthe Companys website www.
co. uk maintaining safe workplaces, supporting successful operation of the group.
steady employment and increasing Wetherefore work with them to transparency across the wider ensurereliability and to help them Adherence to the Code is verified supply chain.
meetacceptable standards of product throughABFs supplier audit system with quality and safety, financial stability, our procurement and operational teams All of our businesses have undertaken ethics, technical competence and establishing strong working relationships riskassessments to identify supply peoplesafety.
with suppliers to help them meet chainsathigh risk from modern slavery.
Potential supply chain and ethical The steps we take to try to ensure that business practice risks include: All businesses are required to comply anyforms of modern slavery are not withthe groups Business Principles presentwithin our own operations or reputational damage through including its Anti-Bribery and oursupply chain are reported in the supplychain weaknesses CorruptionPolicy.
2016Corporate Responsibility report e. g. poorconditions for workers: www.
unacceptable and unethical behaviour, including bribery andcorruption: impact on reliability of supply andbusiness continuity due tounforeseen incidents e. g. naturaldisasters: and long-term sustainability of keysuppliers.
Risk trend Unchanged Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Mitigation Changes since 2015 BREACHES OF IT AND We seek to understand the changing During the year there has been an INFORMATIONSECURITY cyberrisks faced by our businesses ongoingfocus on raising the awareness andtakeappropriate action.
ofallemployees of the risks associated Context and potential impact withthe use of IT.
Our delivery of efficient and We have established processes, group effectiveoperations is enhanced ITsecurity policies and technologies in Our IT security capability has been bytheuse of relevant technologies place allof which are subject to regular strengthened with the appointment of andthe sharing of information.
specialist resource and consolidation of Wearetherefore subject to potential existing personnel under the direction Access to sensitive data is restricted internal and external cyber threats oftheHead of IT Security.
suchas computer viruses and the We have instigated regular security Robust disaster recovery plans are in lossortheft of data.
Remediation placefor business critical applications.
There is also the potential for ofanyidentified vulnerabilities is treated Technical security controls are in place disruptionto operations from asahigh priority and there has been a overkey IT platforms with the Head of unforeseen IT and system focusonthe development of incident ITSecurity tasked with identifying and malfunctionsor external attack.
responding to potential security risks.
Risk trend Unchanged Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 53 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the UK Corporate The directors considered the level At 17 September 2016, 1.3bn Governance Code, the directors ofperformance that would cause the ofcommitted borrowing facilities arerequired to assess the prospects group to breach its debt covenants, availableto the group were undrawn oftheCompany taking account of thefinancial implications of making any andthe directors are of the opinion itscurrent position and principal risks.
strategic acquisitions and a variety of thatsubstantial further funding could Theguidance published by the Financial factors that have the potential to reduce besecured, at relatively short notice, Reporting Council suggests that profit substantially.
These included the should the need arise.
The revolving theperiod of assessment should be rate and success of Primarks expansion, credit facility is not due for renewal significantly longer than the 12 months actions which could damage the untilJuly 2021 and 316m of the from the approval of the financial groupsreputation for the long term, privateplacement funding matures statements that is applied in the andmacroeconomic influences such beyond the period under consideration.
directors going concern consideration asfluctuations in world currency and page 61. commodity markets.
Consideration was The group has a sound track record given to the currently benign interest ofdelivering strong cash flows, with Consistent with the groups business rateenvironment in Europe and the US.
wellinexcess of 1bn of operating model which devolves operational cash being generated annually in each decision making to the businesses, The implications of the referendum ofthelast five years.
This has been more eachof them sets a strategic planning onthe UKs continued membership than sufficient to fund expansionary time horizon appropriate to its activities ofthe EU were specifically considered.
capital investment and, specifically, has which are typically of three years duration.
Thegroups business model aligns enabled the development of Primark in In determining the appropriate period production, wherever possible, continental Europe and, more recently, over which to make their assessment, withtheend markets for its products.
Thegroups cash flows have the directors considered the duration Primarkoperates discrete supply supported 7% compound annual of these strategic plans, thediverse chainsfor itsstores in each of the UK, growthin the dividend over the last nature of the groups activities and the USand eurozone and relatively little tenyears.
degree to which the businesses change cross border trading is undertaken and evolve in the relatively short term.
between the UK and the rest of the Even in a worst case scenario, Aperiod of three years beyond the EU.
Specifically, the decline in sterling with risks modelled to materialise balance sheet date was considered exchange rates against our major simultaneously and for a sustained appropriate for thegroup.
tradingcurrencies will have both period, the likelihood of the group positiveand negative effects on the having insufficient resources to meet The directors considered the groups groups profit and the long-term viability its financial obligations is remote.
profitability, cash flows and key financial of the group is unlikely to be affected.
ratios over this period and the potential Based on this assessment, the directors impact that the Principal Risks and Such is the diversity of the group, confirm that they have a reasonable Uncertainties set out on pages 48 to52 withoperations across 50 countries expectation that the Company will be could have on the solvency or liquidity of andsales in more than 100, that none able to continue in operation and meet the group.
Sensitivity analysis was applied ofthe principal risks or uncertainties its liabilities as they fall due over the to these metrics and the projected cash individually is considered likely to period to 14 September 2019. flows were stress testedagainst a range haveamaterial impact on the groups of scenarios.
profitability or extensive cash resources.
On behalf of the board Furthermore, the groups business model means that no significant reliance is placed on any one group of customers or suppliers and its diversity reduces Charles Sinclair therisk that issues affecting a particular Chairman sector will have a material impact on thegroup as a whole.
George Weston Chief Executive John Bason Finance Director Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 BOARD OF DIRECTORS EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP AND STRONG GOVERNANCE Board committees key N Nomination committee A Audit committee R Remuneration committee R N Charles Sinclair Chairman age 68 Charles was appointed a non-executive director in October 2008 and as Chairman inApril 2009.
With wide business experience of both the UK andoverseas, his executive career was latterly with Daily Mail and General Trust plc, where he was chief executive from 1989 until he retired from thatrole and the board in September 2008.
Other appointments: He is Warden of Winchester College.
George Weston Chief Executive age 52 George was appointed to the board in1999 and took up his current appointment as Chief Executive in April2005.
In his former roles at Associated British Foods, he was Managing Director of Westmill Foods, Allied Bakeries and George Weston Foods Limited Australia.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director ofWittington Investments Limited andatrustee of the Garfield WestonFoundation.
John Bason Finance Director age 59 John was appointed as Finance Director in May 1999.
He has extensive international business experience and an in-depth knowledge of the industry.
He was previously the finance director of Bunzl plc and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Compass Group PLC, a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and chairman of the charity FareShare.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 55 N A R N R Emma Adamo Ruth Cairnie Timothy Clarke Non-executive director age 53 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Emma was appointed as a director in director age 62 director age 59 December 2011.
She was educated Ruth was appointed a director in Tim was appointed a director in atStanford University and INSEAD May2014.
She has extensive overseas November 2004 and has been Senior inFrance.
experience including international Independent Director since December marketing and supply chain.
Tim has extensive experience Other appointments: formerly Executive Vice President ofretailing.
Until 2009, he was chief She is a director of Wittington Strategy& Planning at Royal Dutch ShellPlc.
executive of Mitchells & Butlers plc, Investments Limited, and of the This role followed a number of senior following its demerger from Six WGarfield Weston Foundation international roles within Shell, including Continents PLC where he also held the inCanada.
Vice President of their Global Commercial position of chief executive.
She is a physicist he had been a partner of Panmure by qualification.
Gordon & Co before joining Bass PLC in1990.
Other appointments: She is a non-executive director of Other appointments: KellerGroup plc and of Rolls-Royce He is a non-executive director of two Holdings plc.
pub and brewing companies, Hall & Woodhouse Limited, and Timothy Taylor & Company Limited, and also Triple Point VCT 2011 PLC.
N R N A R A R Javier Ferrn Wolfhart Hauser Richard Reid Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director age 60 director age 66 director age 60 Javier was appointed a director in Wolfhart was appointed a director in Richard was appointed a director in November 2006.
He spent the earlier January 2015.
He was formerly a partner part of his career with Bacardi Group, various research activities, he went on atKPMG LLP, having joined the firm where latterly he served as president to establish and lead a broad range of in1980.
From 2008, Richard served and chief executive officer.
He has successful international service industry asLondon Chairman at KPMG until in-depth knowledge of consumer businesses.
He was chief executive heretired from that role and KPMG in brands on an international basis and of Intertek Group plc for tenyears until September 2015.
he retired from that role and the board was KPMGs UK chairman of the High in May 2015.
He was previously chief Growth Markets Group and chairman Other appointments: executive officer and president of TV ofthe firms Consumer and Industrial He is a partner at Lion Capital LLP, Sddeutschland AG for four years and Markets group.
chief executive officer of TV Product Heis also a non-executive director and Services for ten years.
Other appointments: chairman designate of Diageo plc and He is chairman of National Heart and anon-executive director of Coca-Cola Other appointments: Lung Institute Foundation and senior European Partners plc.
He is chairman of FirstGroup plc and advisor to Bank of China UK.
senior independent director of RELX Group plc and its listed parent companies RELX PLC and RELX NV.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board considers that the DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS Companyhas, throughout the year ended 17 September 2016, applied I am pleased to present the Associated British Foods corporate governance themain principles and complied with reportfor the year ended 17 September 2016. theprovisions set out in the Code, withthe following exception: As I have highlighted in my Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, we were delighted to welcome Richard Reid to the board in April 2016 as an independent Code provision non-executive director and as successor to Peter Smith as chairman of the Audit committee.
We report on the formal process by which Richard was appointed D. 2.1 The Chairman should not inthe Nomination committee report on page 64. chairtheRemuneration committee Richard Reids appointment represents further progress towards refreshing Status themembership of the board but we are of course mindful that two of our Charles Sinclair is both Chairman of independent non-executive directors, Tim Clarke and Javier Ferrn, have been theCompany and chairman of the members oftheboard for more than nine years.
On page 59 we set out our Remuneration committee.
reasoning fordetermining their continued independence notwithstanding their length of service.
In considering the future shape of the board, it remains our Explanation intention thatthe transition of the board should continue to be phased carefully, sothat wemaintain an appropriate degree of continuity while our more recently The board of Associated British Foods plc continues to consider that Charles Sinclair, appointed non-executive directors build their knowledge of the Companys due to his experience, is best suited to diversebusinesses.
No director has any This year we chose to undertake an internal evaluation of the board and its involvement in the determination of his committees, following a successful  board evaluation last year.
The board believes thatthe Company has maintained robust Itis the Companys practice, whenever the review is carried out internally, for this to governance while at the same time be led by a different non-executive director on each occasion.
This years evaluation benefiting from having Charles Sinclair was headed by Ruth Cairnie.
A summary of the process, key outcomes as well asthe chairman of the Remuneration asprogress from the previous years exercise is provided on page 60. committee.
We are very much aware of the recent focus on, and debate around, the importance of good corporate culture.
The Company has a strong, constant, corporate culture, Leadership referred to within the group as the essence of Associated British Foods.
Essence The board refers to the solid ethical foundations on which the Company is built including the The board of directors is collectively approach to guiding its decentralised and diversified group of businesses.
It has been responsible to the Companys avital factor in creating and protecting long-term shareholder value and is described shareholders for the direction and in more detail on pages 6 and 7 of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility report, which oversight of the Company to ensure is available for download at www.
In order to assure the itslong-term success.
The board ethical culture in which we operate, the board and the corporate centre provide an metregularly throughout the year to important governance function which sets a framework for, and complements, approvethe groups strategic objectives, ourdecentralised structure.
to lead the group within a framework In the following pages, we set out our approach to corporate governance and ofeffective controls which enable risk explain how our governance practices support sustainable, responsible long-term tobe assessed and managed and to growth for our shareholders.
We will continue to keepour governance practices ensure that sufficient resources are under review, keeping in mind developing market practice.
Asalways, we available to meet the objectives set.
welcome feedback orcomments from shareholders either through the website There are a number of matters which www.
co. uk or inperson at the annual general meeting.
arespecifically reserved for the boards Charles Sinclair approval.
These are set out in a clearly Chairman defined schedule and include: matters relating to the groups strategic plan: approving the annual business strategy and objectives: the nature and extent Compliance with the UK Corporate available from the FRC website ofprincipal risks to be taken to achieve Governance Code www.
the strategic objectives: changes As a premium listed company on the An updated version of the UK Corporate relatingto structure and capital: London Stock Exchange, the Company Governance Code was published in approvalof trading statements, interim isreporting in accordance with the UK April2016 and first applies to companies results, final results and annual report Corporate Governance Code published in with financial years commencing on and accounts: declaring interim dividends September 2014 the Code which sets orafter 17 June 2016 the 2016 Code.
and recommending final dividends: the out standards of good practice in relation The Company has already taken account groups policies and systems of internal to board leadership and effectiveness, of the small number of changes required control and risk management: approving remuneration, accountability and relations and will report formally in accordance capital projects, acquisitions and with shareholders.
The Code is published with the 2016 Code in its 2017 disposals valued at over 30m: provision by the UK Financial Reporting Council annualreport.
of adequate succession planning, FRC and a copy of the Code is Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 57 approving major group policies and The non-executive directors Senior executives below board matters relating to the compliance with In addition to their responsibilities levelareinvited, when appropriate, the terms of the Relationship Agreement forstrategy and business results, the toattendboard meetings and to between the Company and its controlling non-executive directors play a key role makepresentations on the results shareholders dated 14 November 2014. inproviding a solid foundation for good andstrategies of their business units.
The schedule of matters reserved corporate governance and ensure that Papersfor board and committee isavailable to view on the corporate noindividual or group dominates the meetings are generally provided to governance section of the Companys boards decision-making.
They each directors for board and committee website www.
occupy, or have occupied, senior meetings a week in advance.
positions in industry, bringing valuable Certain specific responsibilities are The attendance of the directors external perspective to the boards delegated to the board committees, atboardand committee meetings deliberations through their experience notably the Audit, Remuneration duringthe year to 17 September 2016 and insight from other sectors enabling andNomination committees, which isshownin the table below.
Where them to contribute significantly to board operatewithin clearly defined terms adirector was unable to participate in decision-making.
The formal letters of ofreference and report regularly to the ameeting either in person or remotely, appointment of non-executive directors board.
Forfurther details, please see theChairman solicited their views on are available for inspection at the Board committees section below.
keyitems of business in advance of Companys registered office.
therelevant meeting and shared these Authority for the operational Election and re-election of directors with the meeting so that they were management of the groups business In accordance with the Codes ableto contribute to the debate.
has been delegated to the Chief recommendations, all directors currently Executive for execution or further Board committees in office will be proposed for election or delegation by him for the effective The board has established re-election at the 2016 annual general day-to-day running and management threeprincipalboard committees, meeting to be held in December.
The chief executive of towhichithas delegated certain eachbusiness within the group has Board meetings .
These are the authority for that business and reports The board held a total of eight meetings Audit, Nomination and Remuneration directly to the Chief Executive.
Themembership, meetings take place away from the responsibilities andactivities of these Chairman and Chief Executive corporate centre in London.
During the committees aredescribed later in The roles of the Chairman and the year under review, one of the meetings thiscorporate governance report ChiefExecutive are separately held was held at Primarks offices in Dublin, and, inthe case oftheRemuneration andthe division of their responsibilities providing the non-executive directors in committee, in theRemuneration isclearly established, set out in writing, particular with the opportunity to meet reportwhich starts on page 69. and agreed by the board to ensure local management and other employees.
Membership of thesecommittees thatno one has unfettered powers of The board held another of its meetings isreviewed annually.
The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, away from the centre and visited the committee meetings are made is responsible for the operation and ABVista Marlborough site for a tour availableto all directors on a leadership of the board, ensuring its andto meet local management.
effectiveness and setting its agenda.
TheChief Executive, George Weston, isresponsible for leading and managing Audit Nomination Remuneration the groups business within a set of Board committee committee committee authorities delegated by the board Charles Sinclair 8 8 1 1 6 6 andfor the implementation of board George Weston 8 8 strategyand policy.
John Bason 8 8 Senior Independent Director Emma Adamo 8 8 1 Tim Clarke is the Companys recognised Ruth Cairnie 8 8 4 4 1 1 6 6 Senior Independent Director.
The role Tim Clarke 8 8 1 1 6 6 ofthe Senior Independent Director is to 2 Javier Ferrn 8 8 1 1 1 1 6 6 act as a sounding board for the Chairman 3 Wolfhart Hauser 8 8 4 4 1 1 6 6 and to serve as an intermediary for other 4 Lord Jay 1 1 1 1 1 1 directors where necessary.
He is also 5 Richard Reid 3 3 1 1 3 3 available to shareholders should a need 6 Peter Smith 4 5 3 3 2 3 arise to convey concerns to the board 1 Ruth Cairnie was appointed as a member of the Nomination committee on 1 November 2015. which they have been unable to convey 2 Javier Ferrn stepped down as a member of the Audit committee on 26 October 2015. through the Chairman or through the 3 Wolfhart Hauser was appointed as a member of the Nomination committee on 13 April 2016.
During the year, Lord Jay retired as a director and ceased to be a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees on 30 November 2015. ledby the Senior Independent Director, 5 Richard Reid was appointed as a non-executive director, chairman of the Audit committee the non-executive directors have met andamember of the Remuneration committee with effect from 14 April 2016.
6 Peter Smith retired and ceased to be chairman of the Audit committee andamember of the without the presence of the Chairman Nomination and Remuneration committees on 13 April 2016.
He was unable toattend one board including to appraise the Chairmans and Remuneration committee meeting but he reviewed the relevant information andprovided performance.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The chairmen of the Audit, Nomination Directors insurance Effectiveness and Remuneration committees were The Company has in place Board composition present at the 2015 annual general appropriatedirectors and officers At the date of this report, the board meeting and intend tobe present at this liability insurance cover in respect comprises the following directors: years meeting to answer questionson oflegal action against itsexecutive Chairman the work of their respectivecommittees.
andnon-executive directors, Charles Sinclair amongstothers.
The written terms of reference for the Executive directors Nomination, Audit and Remuneration The work of the board George Weston Chief Executive committees are available on the during the year John Bason Finance Director Companys website www.
co. uk During the financial year, key activities andhard copies are available on request.
ofthe board included: Non-executive directors Emma Adamo Ruth Cairnie Strategy Tim Clarke Conducting regular strategy update sessions in board meetings.
Javier Ferrn Holding an annual away-day focused on strategy.
Wolfhart Hauser Richard Reid Acquisitions disposals Emma Adamo is not considered by Approving the increased ownership of Illovo Sugar Limited.
theboard to be independent in view Receiving regular updates on acquisitions disposals, including disposal of the groups ofherrelationship with Wittington cane sugar business in south China and of the North American herbs and spices business Investments Limited, the Companys of ACH Foods.
She was appointed Performance monitoring in December 2011 to represent this shareholding on the board of the Receiving regular reports to the board from the Chief Executive.
The board considers that Receiving, on a rolling basis, senior management presentations from each of the theother non-executive directors are groupbusiness areas.
independent in character and judgement Approving the group budget for the 2016 17 financial year.
and that they are each free from any Receiving regular feedback on directors meetings held with institutional investors.
Receiving reports from the board committee chairmen.
business or other relationships which would materially interfere with the Governance and risk exercise of their independent judgement.
Approving the Companys full year and interim results.
Richard Reid was appointed as an Recommending the 2015 final dividend and approving the 2016 interim dividend.
independent non-executive director Annual review of the material financial and non-financial risks facing the on14 April 2016.
Richards independence by reference Receiving regular divisional food safety updates.
tothe relevant provisions of the Code Half yearly review of progress in implementing actions arising from the 2015 and concluded that he is independent boardevaluation.
notwithstanding his past relationship with Participating in the 2016 annual board performance evaluation and receiving a report onthe evaluation.
KPMG, which was formerly the groups Reviewing and approving new inside information and share dealing policies and auditor.
KPMG LLP ceased to be the procedures following implementation of the EU Market Abuse Regulation in July 2016.
Companys auditor in November 2015, Receiving regular updates on regulatory matters.
following a competitive tender for the external audit.
Richard was formerly a Corporate responsibility partner at KPMG, retiring from that role in Approving the 2016 Corporate Responsibility report.
He had no personal Receiving regular management reports on health, safety and environmental issues.
engagement with any business within Receiving updates on Primark ethical sourcing.
the Associated British Foods group during a period of the four years prior to People his appointment by the Company in April Appointing Richard Reid as an independent non-executive director.
Before the four-year period, Richard Receiving updates on and considering senior succession planning and people activities was client liaison partner on behalf of with presentation from the Group HR Director.
KPMG for Associated British Foods, Confirming directors independence.
butat no time did he have responsibility Appointing Wolfhart Hauser to the Nomination committee.
for signing off an audit report on the Appointing Ruth Cairnie to the Nomination committee.
His prior knowledge of the diversity and complexity of the group Various isof significant value to the board.
Receiving updates on procurement, information technology and communications Although the audit relationship between fromthe heads of the relevant functions.
the Company and KPMG and the Undertaking appropriate preparations for the holding of the annual general meeting employment relationship between including considering and approving an outlook statement and subsequently, discussing Richard Reid and KPMG ended within the issues arising from the annual general meeting.
last three years, the board has concluded Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
