Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Board composition As shown in the Corporate Governance our shareholders is maintained and that The membership of the Board at Overview, there are four principal Board their issues and concerns are understood 31 December 2016 and information about Committees.
The membership and work and considered.
individual Directors is contained in the Board of these Committees is described on the of Directors section on pages 86 and 87. following pages.
In addition, there may from The Board held 11 meetings in 2016, time to time be constituted ad hoc Board including its usual annual strategy review.
Corporate governance Committees for specic projects or tasks.
Five took place in London, UK: one in We have prepared this Annual Report with Cambridge, UK: one at the ofces of reference to the UK Corporate Governance In these cases, the scope and AstraZenecas subsidiary in Japan: and four Code published by the UK Financial responsibilities of the Committee are by telephone conference call.
The Board Reporting Council FRC in September 2014. documented.
The Board provides adequate is currently scheduled to meet six times in resources to enable each Committee to 2017 and will meet at such other times as This Corporate Governance Report undertake its duties.
may be required to conduct business.
together with other sections of this Annual Report describes how we apply the main Reserved matters and delegation As part of the business of each Board principles of good governance in the UK of authority meeting, the CEO typically submits a Corporate Governance Code.
We have The Board maintains and periodically progress report, giving details of business complied throughout the accounting period reviews a list of matters that are reserved to, performance and progress against the with the provisions of the UK Corporate and can only be approved by, the Board.
goals the Board has approved.
To ensure Governance Code, which is available These include: the appointment, termination that the Board has good visibility of the on the FRCs website, www.
and remuneration of any Director: approval key operating decisions of the business, of the annual budget: approval of any item of members of the SET attend Board meetings Leadership and responsibilities xed capital expenditure or any proposal for regularly and Board members meet other The roles of Chairman and CEO are the acquisition or disposal of an investment senior executives throughout the year.
Leif Johansson, our Non-Executive or business which exceeds $150 million: the The Board also receives accounting and Chairman, is responsible for leadership of raising of capital or loans by the Company other management information about our the Board.
Our CEO, Pascal Soriot, leads subject to certain exceptions : the giving of resources, and presentations from internal the SET and has executive responsibility for any guarantee in respect of any borrowing and external speakers on legal, governance running our business.
The Board comprises of the Company: and allotting shares of the and regulatory developments.
At the end 10 Non-Executive Directors, including the Company.
The matters that have not been of Board meetings, the Non-Executive Chairman, and two Executive Directors expressly reserved to the Board are Directors meet without the Executive the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and the CFO, Marc delegated by the Board to its Committees Directors present to review and discuss any Dunoyer.
Its responsibilities are set out in the or the CEO.
matters that have arisen during the meeting Corporate Governance Overview on pages and or such other matters as may appear 84 and 85.
As at 31 December 2016, two The CEO is responsible to the Board to the Non-Executive Directors to be Non-Executive Director positions were for the management, development and relevant in properly discharging their duty vacant and work is continuing to identify performance of our business for those to act independently.
and secure the services of new Board matters for which he has been delegated members, as described in the Nomination authority from the Board.
Although the CEO %RDUG HHFWLYHQHVV and Governance Committee section on retains full responsibility for the authority Composition of the Board, succession page 93. delegated to him by the Board, he has planning and diversity established, and chairs, the SET, which The Nomination and Governance Rudy Markham, who joined the Board is the vehicle through which he exercises Committee and, where appropriate, the full as a Non-Executive Director in 2008, that authority in respect of our business.
Board, regularly review the composition of wasappointed as our Senior independent the Board and the status of succession to Non-Executive Director in April 2015.
The roles of the Board, Board Committees, both senior executive management and The role of the Senior independent Chairman and CEO are documented, as Board level positions.
Directors have regular Non-Executive Director is to serve as a are the Boards reserved powers and contact with, and access to, succession sounding board for the Chairman and as delegated authorities.
candidates for senior executive an intermediary for the other Directors management positions.
The Senior independent Operation of the Board Non-Executive Director is also available The Board discharges its responsibilities The Board aims to maintain a balance in to shareholders if they have concerns that as set out in the Corporate Governance terms of the range of experience and skills contact through the normal channels of Overview on pages 84 and 85 through of individual Board members, which Chairman or Executive Directors has failed a programme of meetings that includes includes relevant international business, to resolve, or for which such contact is regular reviews of financial performance pharmaceutical industry and financial inappropriate.
and critical business issues, and the formal experience, as well as appropriate scientific annual strategy review day.
The Board also and regulatory knowledge.
The biographies aims to ensure that a good dialogue with of Board members set out on pages 86 and 90 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance 87 give more information about current Corporate Governance Code, the test of Appointments to the Board Directors in this respect.
The Board views independence is not appropriate in relation The Nomination and Governance gender, nationality and cultural diversity to the Chairman after his appointment.
Committee section on page 93 provides among Board members as important information about the appointment process considerations when reviewing the Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as for new Directors.
The Board a Director of Astra in May 1989 and recognises, in particular, the importance subsequently became a Director of the Newly appointed Directors are provided of gender diversity.
Currently, 37% of the Company in 1999.
He is a Non-Executive comprehensive information about the Group Companys Non-Executive Directors are Director of Investor AB, which has a 4.1% and their role as Non-Executive Directors.
women and women make up 30% of the interest in the issued share capital of They also typically participate in tailored full Board.
Although it has not set any the Company as at 2 February 2017. induction programmes that take account specic measurable objectives, the Board Mr Wallenberg, Investor AB and a number of their individual skills and experience.
intends to continue with its current approach of Wallenberg charitable foundations are to diversity in all its aspects, while at the connected.
For these reasons, the Board Time commitment same time seeking Board members of the does not believe that he can be determined Our expectation is that Non-Executive highest calibre, and with the necessary independent under the UK Corporate Directors should be prepared to commit experience and skills to meet the needs Governance Code.
However, the Board 15 days a year, as an absolute minimum, of the Company and its shareholders.
believes that he has brought, and continues to the Groups business.
In practice, Board Information about our approach to diversity to bring, considerable business experience members time commitment exceeds this in the organisation below Board level can be and makes a valuable contribution to the minimum expectation when all the work that found in Employees from page 54. work of the Board.
In April 2010, he was they undertake for the Group is considered, appointed as a member of the Science particularly in the case of the Chairman of The following changes to the composition Committee, reecting his interest in the Board and the Chairmen of the Board of the Board and its Committees have innovation and R&D, knowledge of the Committees.
As well as their work in relation occurred during the period covered by history of the Company and its scientific to formal Board and Board Committee this Annual Report: heritage and culture, and his broad meetings, the Non-Executive Directors experience of other industries and also commit time throughout the year to Cornelia Cori Bargmann stepped down businesses in which innovation and R&D meetings and telephone calls with various from the Board and as a member of the are important determinants of success.
levels of executive management, visits to Science Committee with effect from AstraZenecas sites throughout the world 1 October 2016 after she accepted a new Conflicts of interest and, for new Non-Executive Directors, position as President of Chan Zuckerberg The Articles enable the Directors to induction sessions and site visits.
Science, part of the Chan Zuckerberg authorise any situation in which a Director Initiative.
has an interest that conicts or has the On occasions when a Director is Jean-Philippe Courtois stepped down potential to conict with the Companys unavoidably absent from a Board or Board from the Board and as a member of interests and which would otherwise be a Committee meeting, for example where the Audit Committee with effect from breach of the Directors duty, under Section a meeting clashes with their existing 1 December 2016.
Mr Courtois was 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board commitments, they still receive and review appointed as a Non-Executive Director has a formal system in place for Directors to the papers for the meeting and typically in 2008.
The Nomination and Governance declare such situations to be considered for provide verbal or written input ahead of the Committee started succession planning authorisation by those Directors who have meeting, usually through the Chairman of earlier in 2016 in anticipation of Mr no interest in the matter being considered.
the Board or the Chairman of the relevant Courtois reaching nine years tenure In deciding whether to authorise a situation, Board Committee, so that their views as a Board member in 2017. the non-conicted Directors must act in the are made known and considered at the way they consider, in good faith, would be meeting.
Given the nature of the business Independence of the Non-Executive most likely to promote the success of the to be conducted, some Board meetings are Directors Company, and they may impose limits or convened at short notice, which can make During 2016, the Board considered the conditions when giving the authorisation, it difficult for some Directors to attend due independence of each Non-Executive or subsequently, if they think this is to prior commitments.
Director for the purposes of the UK appropriate.
Situations considered by Corporate Governance Code and the the Board and authorisations given are Information and support corporate governance listing standards recorded in the Board minutes and in The Company Secretary is responsible of the NYSE Listing Standards.
With the a register of conicts maintained by the to the Chairman for ensuring that all exception of Marcus Wallenberg, the Board Company Secretary, and are reviewed Board and Board Committee meetings considers that all of the Non-Executive annually by the Board.
The Board believes are properly conducted, that the Directors Directors are independent.
Leif Johansson that this system operates effectively.
receive appropriate information prior was considered by the Board to be to meetings to enable them to make independent upon his appointment as an effective contribution, and that Chairman.
In accordance with the UK governance requirements are considered and implemented.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 91 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Company maintained Directors and further improving full Board oversight of The Board intends to continue to comply Ofcers Liability Insurance cover throughout succession planning for Board-level roles: with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
The Directors are also able to obtain providing more opportunities for Board guidance that the evaluation should be independent legal advice at the expense members to meet senior employees having externally facilitated at least every three of the Company, as necessary, in their the potential to progress to the most senior years and expects to commission the next capacity as Directors.
executive roles in the Company: and how externally facilitated review in 2017. best to maintain the right balance of Board The Company has entered into a deed of time for R&D matters on the one hand, Re-election of Directors indemnity in favour of each Board member and commercial and operations matters In accordance with Article 66 of the since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are on the other.
Articles, all Directors retire at each AGM still in force and provide that the Company and may offer themselves for re-election shall indemnify the Directors to the fullest As part of each Directors individual by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the extent permitted by law and the Articles, discussion with the Chairman, his or her Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2017. in respect of all losses arising out of, or contribution to the work of the Board The Notice of AGM will give details of those in connection with, the execution of their and personal development needs were Directors seeking re-election.
powers, duties and responsibilities as considered.
Directors training needs Directors of the Company or any of its are met by a combination of internal Accountability subsidiaries.
This is in line with current presentations and updates and external Risk management and internal control market practice and helps us attract and speaker presentations as part of Board The Board has overall responsibility for retain high quality, skilled Directors.
and Board Committee meetings: specic our system of internal controls and risk training sessions on particular topics, where management policies and has an Performance evaluation required: and the opportunity for Directors ongoing responsibility for reviewing their During the year, the Board conducted the to attend external courses at the Companys effectiveness.
During 2016, the Directors annual evaluation of its own performance cost, should they wish to do so.
In respect continued to review the effectiveness of our and that of its Committees and individual of the 2016 annual performance evaluation it system of controls, risk management and Directors.
The 2016 evaluation involved was concluded that each Director continues high level internal control processes.
These each Board member responding to a to perform effectively and to demonstrate reviews included an assessment of internal web-based questionnaire covering a wide commitment to his or her role.
controls and, in particular, financial, range of topics prepared by Lintstock Ltd operational and compliance controls, and Lintstock, a London-based corporate The 2016 evaluation also included a risk management and their effectiveness, advisory rm that provides objective and review of the performance of the Chairman supported by management assurance of independent counsel to leading European by the other Directors, led by the Senior the maintenance of controls reports from IA, companies.
Lintstock supplies software independent Non-Executive Director and as well as the external auditor on matters and services to the Company Secretarys absent the Chairman.
The review covered identied in the course of its statutory audit team for Board evaluation questionnaires how Board meetings were managed and work.
The system is designed to manage and for the management of insider lists but chaired: the Chairmans broader activities rather than eliminate the risk of failure has no other commercial relationship with for the Company for example, his to achieve business objectives and can the Company.
interactions with employees in various only provide reasonable not necessarily parts of the business : his relationship absolute assurance of effective operation Feedback from the questionnaire was with shareholders and other external and compliance with laws and regulations.
discussed by the Board at its meeting in stakeholders in various parts of the world, January 2017 and was also used by the such as governments and senior regulatory The internal control framework was in Chairman as the basis for individual authority ofcials: his relationship with operation throughout 2016 and continues conversations with each Board member executive management: and suggestions to operate up to the date of the approval of prior to the full Board discussion.
In respect as to areas that the Board might prioritise this Annual Report.
The Directors believe of the 2016 evaluation, overall it was for its work in 2017.
It was concluded that that the Group maintains an effective, concluded that the Board continues to overall the Chairman continues to perform embedded system of internal controls and operate effectively and in an open manner very effectively, both in respect of Board complies with the FRCs guidance entitled and no significant problems were raised.
matters and in relation to other aspects Guidance on Risk Management, Internal The questionnaire feedback and both the of his chairmanship role, and that he Control and Related Financial and Business individual and the full Board discussions continues to devote significant time to Reporting and, in the view of the Directors, included suggestions about providing more promoting the interests of the Company no significant deficiencies have been strategic, competitive and financial context for the long-term benefit of shareholders identied in the system.
for Board members in respect of their and other stakeholders.
reviews of the Companys very early-stage More information about the ways in which science and development programmes: The reviews of the Boards Committees we manage our business risks and describe maintaining and further improving the did not raise any significant problems and our principal risks and uncertainties is set diversity of the Board: maintaining and concluded that the Committees are out in the Risk overview from page 20 and operating effectively.
92 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance Remuneration We have frequent discussions with based on the merits of the candidates and Information about our approach to institutional shareholders on a range of the relevance of their background and remuneration and the role and work of the issues.
In addition to holding discussions experience, measured against objective Remuneration Committee, including our with groups of shareholders, we also hold criteria, with care taken to ensure that policy on executive remuneration, is set individual meetings with some of our largest appointees have enough time to devote out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
institutional shareholders to seek their views.
Board members are kept informed of any Policy on external appointments and issues, and receive regular reports and The Nomination and Governance retention of fees presentations from executive management Committee also advises the Board Subject to specic Board approval in and our brokers to assist them to develop periodically on significant developments in each case, Executive Directors and other an understanding of major shareholders corporate governance and the Companys SET members may accept external views about the Group.
From time to compliance with the UK Corporate appointments as non-executive directors time, we conduct an audit of institutional Governance Code.
of other companies, and retain any related shareholders to ensure that we are fees paid to them, provided that such communicating clearly with them and that During 2016, the members of the appointments are not considered by the a high quality dialogue is being maintained.
Nomination and Governance Committee Board to prevent or reduce the ability of the The results of this audit are reported to, were Leif Johansson Chairman of the executive to perform his or her role within and discussed by, the full Board.
We also Committee, Rudy Markham, Bruce the Group to the required standard.
respond to individual ad hoc requests for Burlington and Graham Chipchase.
Each discussions from institutional shareholders member is a Non-Executive Director and Relations with shareholders and analysts.
Our Investor Relations team considered independent by the Board.
The In our quarterly, half yearly and annual acts as the main point of contact for Company Secretary acts as secretary to the financial and business reporting to investors throughout the year.
As discussed Nomination and Governance Committee.
shareholders and other interested parties, above, the Senior independent Nonwe aim to present a balanced and Executive Director, Rudy Markham, is The Nomination and Governance understandable assessment of our strategy, also available to shareholders if they have Committee considers both planned and financial position and prospects.
concerns that contact through the normal unplanned unanticipated succession channels of Chairman, CEO and or CFO scenarios and met four times in 2016, We make information about the Group has failed to resolve, or in relation to spending the majority of its time on available to shareholders through a range which such contact is inappropriate.
All succession planning for Non-Executive of media, including our corporate website, shareholders, including private investors, Directors with the assistance of the search www.
com, which contains a have an opportunity at the AGM to put rms MWM Consulting, Spencer Stuart wide range of data of interest to institutional questions to members of the Board and Korn Ferry and continued routine and private investors.
We consider our about our operation and performance.
succession planning internal and external website to be an important means of Formal notication of the AGM is sent to for the roles of CEO and CFO, with the communication with our shareholders.
shareholders at least one month in advance.
Korn All Board members ordinarily attend the Ferry and Spencer Stuart periodically The Company has been authorised by AGM to answer questions raised by undertake executive search assignments shareholders to place shareholder shareholders.
In line with the UK Corporate for the Company.
communications such as the Notice of Governance Code, details of proxy voting by AGM and this Annual Report on the shareholders, including votes withheld, are The attendance record of the Nomination corporate website in lieu of sending paper given at the AGM and are posted on our and Governance Committees members copies to shareholders unless specically website following the AGM.
is set out on page 84. requested.
While recognising and respecting that some shareholders may Nomination and Governance The Nomination and Governance have different preferences about how they Committee Committees terms of reference are available receive information from us, we will continue The Nomination and Governance on our website, www.
to promote the benets of electronic Committees role is to recommend to the communication given the advantages that Board any new Board appointments and to Science Committee this has over traditional paper-based consider, more broadly, succession plans at The Science Committees core role is to communications, both in terms of the Board level.
It reviews the composition of provide assurance to the Board regarding congurability and accessibility of the the Board using a matrix that records the the quality, competitiveness and integrity information provided and the consequent skills and experience of current Board of the Groups R&D activities by way of cost savings and reduction in environmental members, comparing this with the skills and meetings and dialogue with our R&D impact.
experience it believes are appropriate to the leaders and other scientist employees: Companys overall business and strategic visits to our R&D sites throughout the world: needs, both now and in the future.
Any and review and assessment of: decisions relating to the appointment of Directors are made by the entire Board AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 93 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued the approaches we adopt in respect 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires making that drives business performance of our chosen therapy areas companies to include in their annual report and accountability.
the scientific technology and R&D on Form 20-F led with the SEC, a report capabilities we deploy by management stating its responsibility for Specically, the ESPCs have responsibility the decision-making processes for R&D establishing internal control over financial for the following: projects and programmes reporting and to assess annually the the quality of our scientists and their effectiveness of such internal control.
approving early-stage investment decisions career opportunities and talent We have complied with those provisions prioritising the respective portfolios development of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to licensing activity for products in Phase I benchmarking against industry and foreign private issuers.
The Board continues and earlier scientific best practice, where to believe that the Group has a sound delivering internal and external appropriate.
corporate governance framework, good opportunities processes for the accurate and timely reviewing allocation of R&D resources.
The Science Committee periodically reviews reporting of its financial position and results important bioethical issues that we face, of operations, and an effective and robust Late Stage Product Committee LSPC and assists in the formulation of, and agrees system of internal controls.
We have The LSPC is also a senior level governance on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies established a Disclosure Committee, body, accountable for the quality of the in relation to such issues.
It may also further details of which can be found in portfolio post-Phase III investment decision.
consider, from time to time, future trends the Disclosure Committee section below.
Jointly chaired by the EVPs of GMD and in medical science and technology.
The GPPS, members include, as appropriate, Science Committee does not review The Directors assessment of the members of the SET, including the CEO and individual R&D projects but does review, effectiveness of internal control over CFO, and members of the GMD and GPPS on behalf of the Board, the R&D aspects financial reporting is set out in Directors leadership teams.
of specic business development or Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal acquisition proposals and advises the Control over Financial Reporting in the The LSPC seeks to maximise the value Board on its conclusions.
Financial Statements on page 133. of our investments in the late-stage portfolio, also ensuring well-informed During 2016, the members of the Science We are required to disclose any significant and robust decision making.
Specic Committee, all of whom have a knowledge ways in which our corporate governance accountabilities include: of, or an interest in, life sciences, were Bruce practices differ from those followed by US Burlington Chairman of the Committee, companies under the Listing Standards.
approval of the criteria supporting Proof Cori Bargmann until she stepped down In addition, we must comply fully with the of Concept from the Board with effect from 1 October provisions of the Listing Standards relating decision to invest in Phase III development 2016, Genevive Berger and Marcus to the composition, responsibilities and based on agreement of commercial Wallenberg.
As usual, the EVP, GMD: the operation of audit committees, applicable opportunity and our plans to develop EVP, IMED: and the EVP, MedImmune, to foreign private issuers.
These provisions the medicine participated in meetings of the Science incorporate the rules concerning audit evaluation of the outcome of the Committee as co-opted members in 2016. committees implemented by the SEC under development programme and decision The Vice-President, IMED Operations acts the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have reviewed to proceed to regulatory ling as secretary to the Science Committee.
the corporate governance practices decision to invest in life-cycle required to be followed by US companies management activities for the late-stage The Science Committee met twice in under the Listing Standards and our assets person in 2016, in Gothenburg, Sweden corporate governance practices are decision to invest in late-stage business and Gaithersburg, US and held two other generally consistent with those standards.
meetings, both of which were by telephone, to review specic business development Business organisation Disclosure Committee or acquisition proposals and aspects of Early Stage Product Committees ESPCs Our disclosure policy provides a framework the Group scorecard in relation to Achieve The ESPCs are senior level, cross-functional for the handling and disclosure of inside scientific leadership targets.
governance bodies with accountability for information and other information of interest oversight of our early-stage small molecule to shareholders and the investment The Science Committees terms of and biologics portfolio to Proof of Concept community.
It also defines the role of the reference are available on our website, stage.
The EVPs of our two science units, Disclosure Committee.
IMED and MedImmune, chair our ESPCs.
the Disclosure Committee in 2016 were: The ESPCs seek to deliver a ow of the CFO, who chaired the Disclosure US corporate governance requirements products to GMD for Phase III development Committee: the EVP, GMD who is also the Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, through to launch.
The ESPCs also seek Companys Chief Medical officer : the EVP, accordingly, we are subject to the reporting to maximise the value of our internal and GPPS, Global Medical Affairs & Corporate and other requirements of the SEC external R&D investments through robust, Affairs: the General Counsel: the Viceapplicable to foreign private issuers.
Section transparent and well-informed decision President, Corporate Affairs: the Vice- 94 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance President, Investor Relations: and the and ensuring that employees and compliance with significant policies, Vice-President Finance, Group Controller.
external parties can raise any concerns.
plans, procedures, laws, and regulations Other senior executives attend its meetings Global Compliance and IA work with reliability and integrity of management on an agenda-driven basis.
The Deputy various specialist compliance functions and financial information processes, Company Secretary acted as secretary to throughout our organisation to coordinate including the means to identify, measure, the Disclosure Committee.
classify, and report such information Committee meets regularly to assist and safeguarding of assets.
inform the decisions of the CEO concerning We take all alleged compliance breaches inside information and its disclosure.
and concerns extremely seriously, and Based on its activity, IA is responsible for Periodically, it reviews our disclosure investigate them and report the outcome of reporting significant risk exposures and controls and procedures and its own such investigations to the Audit Committee, control issues identied to the Board and operation as part of work carried out to as appropriate.
Internal investigations are to senior management, including fraud enable management and the Board to undertaken by staff from our Global risks, governance issues, and other assure themselves that appropriate Compliance, Human Resources and or matters needed or requested by the Audit processes are operating for both our Legal functions.
It may also evaluate specic planned disclosures, such as our quarterly advisers are engaged to conduct and or operations at the request of the Audit results announcements and scheduled advise on investigations.
Serious breaches Committee or management, as appropriate.
investor relations events, and our unplanned are raised with the Audit Committee.
disclosures in response to unforeseen Where a significant breach has occurred, Code of Conduct events or circumstances.
During 2016, we management, in consultation with our Legal Our Code of Conduct the Code, implemented the requirements of the EU function, will consider whether the Group which is available on our website, Market Abuse Regulation, which involved needs to disclose and or report the findings www.
com, applies to all making some changes to our disclosure to a regulatory or governmental authority.
full-time and part-time Directors, ofcers, controls and procedures.
employees and temporary staff, in all Risk from page 214 companies within our Group worldwide.
Disclosure of information to auditors A Finance Code complements the Code The Directors who held ofce at the date Global Compliance provides direct and applies to the CEO, the CFO, the of approval of this Annual Report confirm assurance to the Audit Committee on Groups principal accounting ofcers that, so far as they are each aware, there matters concerning compliance issues, including key Finance staff in major is no relevant audit information of which including an analysis of compliance overseas subsidiaries and all Finance the Companys auditors are unaware: and breaches.
Complementing this, IA function employees.
This reinforces the each Director has taken all the steps that carries out a range of audits that include importance of the integrity of the Groups he or she ought to have taken as a Director compliance-related audits and reviews Financial Statements, the reliability of the to make himself or herself aware of any of the assurance activities of other Group accounting records on which they are relevant audit information and to establish assurance functions.
The results from based and the robustness of the relevant that the Companys auditors are aware of these activities are reported to the controls and processes.
The Code is at the core of our compliance Global Compliance and Internal Audit IA is established by the Audit Committee programme.
It has been translated into Services IA on behalf of the Board and acts as an 40 languages and provides clear direction The role of the Global Compliance independent and objective assurance as to how our commitment to honesty and function is to help the Group achieve function guided by a philosophy of adding integrity is to be realised through consistent its strategic priorities by doing business value to improve the operations of the actions across all areas of the business.
the right way, with integrity and high Group.
The scope of IAs responsibilities ethical standards.
Global Compliance encompasses, but is not limited to, Compliance with the Code is mandatory continues to focus on ensuring the delivery the examination and evaluation of the and every employee receives annual training of an aligned approach to compliance adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups on it which they are required to complete.
that addresses key risk areas across governance, risk management, and internal The Code is reviewed periodically and the business, including risks relating control processes in relation to the Groups updated to take account of changing legal to external parties and anti-bribery dened goals and objectives.
Our priorities include Policies, as well as local and functional improving compliance behaviours through Internal control objectives considered by procedures, support the Code and provide effective training and communication: IA include: clear guidance in key risk areas.
monitoring compliance with our Code of Conduct, Global Policies and supporting consistency of operations or programmes The Code contains information on how requirements: conducting appropriate risk with established objectives and goals and to report possible violations through our assessments and due diligence on third effective performance Helpline, which includes the AZethics parties whom we engage for services: effectiveness and efficiency of operations telephone lines, the AZethics website, and and employment of resources the Global Compliance email and postal AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 95 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued addresses described in the Code.
The AstraZeneca UK Limited: Algeria scientific The financial position of the Group, its externally-operated website is available in 38 ofce, Angola, Belarus, Chile, Costa Rica, cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing languages, and the phone lines are operable Croatia, Cuba, Dubai branch ofce, facilities are described in the Financial in 96 countries, to facilitate reporting.
Our Georgia, Ghana scientific ofce, Jordan, Review from page 62.
In addition, Note 26 reporting channels are available to both Kazakhstan, Romania, Russia, Saudi to the Financial Statements from page 177 employees and to external parties to report Arabia scientific ofce, Serbia, Slovenia includes the Groups objectives, policies and any concerns.
Reports can be made branch ofce, Syria, Ukraine and Yemen processes for managing capital: financial anonymously where desired and where scientific ofce risk management objectives: details of its permitted by local law.
Anyone who raises AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific ofce financial instruments and hedging activities: a potential breach in good faith is fully and Slovakia branch ofce and its exposures to credit, market and supported by management.
AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups Vietnam cash balances and borrowings are included In 2016, 320 reports of alleged compliance Astra Export & Trading AB: United in Notes 16 and 17 to the Financial breaches or other ethical concerns were Arab Emirates branch ofce.
Statements from page 162. made through the Helpline, including reports made by any anonymous route that could Distributions to shareholders The Group has considerable financial be considered whistleblowing: in 2015 there dividends for 2016 resources available.
As at 31 December were 326 reports.
The majority of cases Details of our distribution policy are set out 2016 the Group had $5.7 billion in financial come to our attention through management in the Financial Review from page 76 and resources cash balances of $5.0 billion and self-reporting, which can be seen as an Notes 22 and 23 to the Financial Statements and undrawn committed bank facilities of indication that employees are comfortable on page 172.
$3.0 billion which are available until April in raising their concerns with line managers, 2020, with only $2.3 billion of debt due local Human Resources, Legal or The Companys dividend for 2016 of $2.80 within one year.
The Groups revenues Compliance, as recommended in the Code 218.9 pence, SEK 24.38 per Ordinary are largely derived from sales of products and reinforced in the 2016 Code training.
Share amount to, in aggregate, a total which are covered by patents which provide dividend payment to shareholders of a relatively high level of resilience and Other matters $3,542 million.
An employee share trust, predictability to cash inows, although Corporate governance statement under AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited, waived our revenue is expected to continue to the UK Disclosure Guidance and its right to a dividend on the Ordinary be signicantly impacted by the expiry of Transparency Rules DTR Shares that it holds and instead received patents over the medium term.
In addition, The disclosures that full the requirements a nominal dividend.
government price interventions in response of a corporate governance statement under to budgetary constraints are expected the DTR can be found in this section and in A shareholders resolution was passed at to continue to adversely affect revenues other parts of this Annual Report as listed the 2016 AGM authorising the Company in many of our mature markets.
However, below, each of which is incorporated into to purchase its own shares.
The Company we anticipate new revenue streams from this section by reference: did not repurchase any of its own shares in both recently launched medicines and 2016.
On 31 December 2016, the Company products in development, and the Group major shareholdings did not hold any shares in treasury.
has a wide diversity of customers and Articles.
suppliers across different geographic areas.
Going concern accounting basis Consequently, the Directors believe that, Shareholder Information from page 232 Information on the business environment overall, the Group is well placed to manage and Corporate Information on page 237 in which AstraZeneca operates, including its business risks successfully.
the factors underpinning the industrys Subsidiaries and principal activities future growth prospects, is included in the After making enquiries, the Directors have The Company is the holding company Strategic Report.
Details of the product a reasonable expectation that the Company for a group of subsidiaries whose principal portfolio of the Group are contained in and the Group have adequate resources activities are described in this Annual both the Strategic Report in the Therapy to continue in operational existence for Report.
The Groups principal subsidiaries Area Review from page 23 and the the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they and their locations are given in Group Directors Report.
Information on patent continue to adopt the going concern Subsidiaries and Holdings in the Financial expiry dates for key marketed products is basis in preparing the Annual Report Statements on page 193. included in Patent Expiries of Key Marketed and Financial Statements.
Our approach to Branches and countries in which the product development and our development Changes in share capital Group conducts business pipeline are also covered in detail with Changes in the Companys Ordinary In accordance with the Companies Act additional information by therapy area Share capital during 2016, including details 2006, we disclose below our subsidiary in the Strategic Report.
of the allotment of new shares under the companies that have representative or Companys share plans, are given in Note scientific branches ofces outside the UK: 22 to the Financial Statements on page 172.
96 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance Directors shareholdings services.
More information about this work of various state candidates.
No corporate The Articles require each Director to be and the audit and non-audit fees that we donations were made at the federal level the beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares have paid are set out in Note 30 to the and all contributions were made only where in the Company with an aggregate Financial Statements on page 192.
The allowed by US federal and state law.
We nominal value of $125 which currently external auditor is not engaged by publicly disclose details of our corporate US represents at least 500 shares because AstraZeneca to carry out any non-audit political contributions, which can be found each Ordinary Share has a nominal value work in respect of which it might, in the on our website, www.
Such holding must be obtained future, be required to express an audit sustainability .
within two months of the date of the opinion.
As explained more fully in the Audit The annual corporate contributions budget Directors appointment.
At 31 December Committee Report from page 98, the Audit is reviewed and approved by the US 2016, all of the Directors complied with Committee has established pre-approval Vice-President, Corporate Affairs and the this requirement and full details of each policies and procedures for audit and President of our US business to ensure Directors interests in shares of the Company non-audit work permitted to be carried out robust governance and oversight.
US are set out in Directors interests in shares by the external auditor and has carefully citizens or individuals holding valid green on pages 114 and 115.
Information about monitored the objectivity and independence cards exercised decision making over the shareholding expectations of the of the external auditor throughout 2016. the contributions and the funds were not Remuneration Committee in respect of provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal Executive Directors and SET members Directors Report entity.
Such contributions do not constitute and the Board in respect of Non-Executive The Directors Report, which has been political donations or political expenditure for Directors is also set out in Directors prepared in accordance with the the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 interests in shares on pages 114 and 115. requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and were made without any involvement comprises the following sections: of persons or entities outside the US.
Political donations Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries Chief Executive Ofcers Review Significant agreements made any EU political donations or incurred Therapy Area Review There are no significant agreements to any EU political expenditure in 2016 and they Business Review which the Company is a party that take do not intend to do so in the future in respect Resources Review, including Employees effect, alter or terminate on a change of which shareholder authority is required, or Financial Review: Financial risk of control of the Company following a for which disclosure in this Annual Report is management takeover bid.
There are no persons with required, under the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Governance: including the whom we have contractual or other However, to enable the Company and its Audit Committee Report and Corporate arrangements, who are deemed by the subsidiaries to continue to support interest Governance Report Directors to be essential to our business.
groups or lobbying organisations concerned Directors Responsibility Statement with the review of government policy or law Development Pipeline Use of financial instruments reform without inadvertently breaching the Sustainability: supplementary information The Notes to the Financial Statements, Companies Act 2006, which defines political Shareholder Information including Note 26 from page 177, include donations and other political expenditure in Corporate Information further information on our use of financial broad terms, a resolution will be put to instruments.
shareholders at the 2017 AGM, similar to and has been approved by the Board that passed at the 2016 AGM, to authorise and signed on its behalf.
Annual General Meeting the Company and its subsidiaries to: The Companys AGM will be held on The Board considers this Annual Report, 27 April 2017.
The meeting place will be make donations to political parties taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced in London, UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent or independent election candidates and understandable, and provides the to all registered holders of Ordinary Shares make donations to political organisations necessary information for shareholders and, where requested, to the beneficial other than political parties to assess AstraZenecas position and holders of shares.
incur political expenditure, up to an performance, business model and strategy.
External auditor A C N Kemp A resolution will be proposed at the AGM Corporate political contributions in the US Company Secretary on 27 April 2017 for the appointment of are permitted in dened circumstances 2 February 2017  LLP PwC as under the First Amendment of the US auditor of the Company.
The external Constitution and are subject to both federal auditor during 2016 was KPMG LLP.
The and state laws and regulations.
In 2016, the proposed change of auditor follows a Groups US legal entities made contributions recommendation by the Audit Committee to amounting in aggregate to $1,568,250 the Board in 2015 based on a formal tender 2015: $1,224,550 to national political in line with best practice.
During 2016, organisations, state-level political party KPMG undertook various non-audit committees and to campaign committees AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 97
