Corporate Governance Senior Executive Team as at 31 December 2016 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 Pascal Soriot Regulatory and IP.
Prior to AstraZeneca, Katarina He is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin and CEO established her own law rm and worked as a later earned his doctorate in biochemistry and his lawyer on both civil and criminal cases.
Katarina medical degree at the University of California, San See page 86. holds a Master of Law Degree from Uppsala Francisco.
2 Marc Dunoyer University School of Law in Sweden.
5 Pam Cheng CFO 4 Dr Sean Bohen Executive Vice-President, Operations Executive Vice-President, and Information Technology See page 86.
Global Medicines Development and 3 Katarina Ageborg Pam joined AstraZeneca in June 2015 after having Chief Medical officer Chief Compliance officer spent 14 years in Global Manufacturing and Supply Sean was appointed Executive Vice-President, Chain roles at Merck MSD.
Pam was the Head of Katarina was appointed Chief Compliance officer GMD in September 2015 and leads our global Global Supply Chain Management & Logistics for and a member of the SET on 1 July 2011.
She has late-stage development organisation for both small Merck from 2006 to 2011 and led the transformation overall responsibility for the delivery, design and molecules and biologics.
He is also the Companys of Merck supply chains across the global supply implementation of the Companys compliance Chief Medical officer and is responsible for network.
More recently, Pam was President of MSD programme and since her appointment has patient safety across the entire AstraZeneca and China, responsible for MSDs entire business in driven increased efficiency and effectiveness in MedImmune portfolio.
Prior to joining Merck, Pam held various compliance.
She has also assumed responsibility from Genentech, where he held a number of senior engineering and project management positions at for Safety, Health & Environment, and most recently leadership roles across various therapy areas and Universal Oil Products, Union Carbide Corporation in 2015 for the Companys sustainability programme.
was most recently Senior Vice President of Early and GAF Chemicals.
Pam holds Bachelors and Katarina led the Global IP function from 2008 to Development.
Before joining Genentech, Sean Masters degrees in chemical engineering from 2011, during which time she streamlined the was a Clinical Instructor in Oncology at Stanford Stevens Institute of Technology in New Jersey and organisation and launched a new patent ling University School of Medicine, a research associate an MBA in marketing from Pace University in New strategy.
After joining AstraZeneca in 1998, she held at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and a York.
She has been a member of the Board of a series of senior legal roles supporting Commercial, postdoctoral fellow at the National Cancer Institute.
Directors for Codexis Inc. CDXS since 2014.
88 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance 6 Fiona Cicconi 9 Mark Mallon 11 -H 3RWW Executive Vice-President, Human Resources Executive Vice-President, Global Product and General Counsel Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical Affairs & Fiona joined AstraZeneca in September 2014 as Jeff was appointed General Counsel in January Corporate Affairs Executive Vice-President, Human Resources.
She 2009 and has overall responsibility for all aspects Executive Vice-President, International West started her career at General Electric, where she of AstraZenecas Legal and IP function.
He joined held various human resources roles within the Mark was appointed Executive Vice-President, AstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked in various oil and gas business, which included experience Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global litigation roles, where he has had responsibility for IP, in major global acquisitions and driving change.
Medical Affairs & Corporate Affairs in August 2016, anti-trust and product liability litigation.
Before joining Subsequently, Fiona spent a number of years leading AstraZenecas global marketing and AstraZeneca, he spent five years at the US legal rm at Cisco, overseeing human resources in seven commercial portfolio strategy as well as the medical Drinker Biddle and Reath LLP, where he specialised countries in Europe and latterly handling employee affairs and corporate affairs functions.
Prior to this, in pharmaceutical product liability litigation and relations in Europe, Middle East and Africa, before Mark was EVP for the International region with anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received his joining Roche in 2006.
There, she was most recently responsibility for the growth and performance of bachelors degree in political science from Wheaton responsible for global human resources for Pharma AstraZenecas commercial businesses in various College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova Technical Operations, where her primary focus was parts of the world, including Asia Pacic, Russia, University School of Law.
to identify and develop a sustainable supply of Latin America, the Middle East and Africa.
He retains 12 Leon Wang leadership and talent from within the organisation.
responsibility for these International businesses Executive Vice-President, Asia Pacic excluding Asia Pacic for which a new SET position 7 Dr Ruud Dobber was created in early 2017.
Since joining AstraZeneca Leon was appointed Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, North America in 1994, Mark has held a number of senior sales and Asia Pacic in January 2017.
This is a region of Ruud was appointed Executive Vice-President, great importance for the future of the Group and marketing roles, including Regional Vice-President North America in August 2016 and is responsible for Asia Pacic, President of AstraZenecas Chinese Leon is responsible for the overall strategy and for driving growth and maximising the contribution the promotion of the sustainable growth of our and Italian subsidiaries, Chief Operating officer of the commercial operations in North America of AstraZenecas Japanese subsidiary and activities in China and Hong Kong, Asia Area, to AstraZenecas global business.
Ruud joined Australia and New Zealand.
He joined AstraZeneca Vice-President of AstraZenecas US gastrointestinal AstraZeneca in 1997 and has held various senior and respiratory businesses.
He has served as a China in 2013 as a Vice-President and became commercial and leadership roles.
Under his leadership China member of the Board of Directors for Christiana Ruud was Executive Vice-President, Europe Care, the largest hospital system in Delaware.
became AstraZenecas second-largest market and oversaw business functions in the 28 EU worldwide.
Leon has 20 years of experience in He has also been an Executive Committee Member member states.
Ruud was also responsible for for R&D-based Pharmaceutical Association the pharmaceutical industry, including a series of the development of our late-stage, small positions of increasing responsibility in marketing Committee, the China industry association for molecule antibiotic pipeline as well as its global innovative pharmaceutical companies.
Mark and business leadership at Roche where he commercialisation.
Prior to that, Ruud was Regional was a Business Unit Vice President before joining began his career in the pharmaceutical industry Vice-President of AstraZenecas European, Middle in management consulting.
He is Council Vice Chairman of the East and African division, Regional Vice-President Shanghai Association of Foreign Investment, in chemical engineering from the University of for the Asia Pacic region and Interim Executive Pennsylvania and an MBA in marketing and finance Executive Committee Member responsible for Vice-President, GPPS.
Ruud was a member of the Pricing of the R&D-based Pharmaceutical from the Wharton School of Business.
Board and Executive Committee of the European Association Committee under the China Association 10 Dr Menelas Pangalos Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and of Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Executive Vice-President, IMED Biotech Unit Associations EFPIA and was previously Chairman Corporate Advisory Board Member of China and Global Business Development of the Asia division of Pharmaceutical Research and Europe International Business School.
He holds Manufacturers of America.
Holding a doctorate in Menelas Mene was appointed Executive a Bachelor of Arts from Shanghai International immunology from the University of Leiden in the Vice-President, IMED Biotech Unit in January 2013 Studies University and an EMBA from China Netherlands, Ruud began his career as a scientist, and leads AstraZenecas small molecule research Europe International Business School.
researching in the eld of immunology and ageing.
In 2016, Mene was also made Global Head of Business Development.
8 Dr Bahija Jallal Note: The position of Executive Vice-President, Europe is Mene joined AstraZeneca from Pzer, where he was Executive Vice-President, MedImmune vacant at the date of this report with recruitment activity Senior Vice-President and Chief scientific officer of underway.
From September 2016 until January 2017, the Bahija was appointed Executive Vice-President, Neuroscience Research.
Previously, he held senior position was held by Luke Miels who prior to that led GPPS, AstraZenecas global marketing, business development and MedImmune in January 2013 and is responsible for discovery and neuroscience roles at Wyeth and commercial portfolio strategy operations.
It was announced biologics research and development activities.
He completed his undergraduate degree in in January 2017 that Mr Miels would leave AstraZeneca to is tasked with advancing the biologics pipeline of biochemistry at the Imperial College of Science take up a senior position with a main competitor.
As a result, Mr Miels was placed on garden leave pending agreement medicines.
She joined MedImmune in 2006 as and Technology, London and earned a doctorate of his start date.
Vice-President, Translational Sciences and has in neurochemistry from the University of London.
held roles of increasing responsibility at AstraZeneca.
He is a Visiting Professor of Neuroscience at Kings Prior to joining AstraZeneca, Bahija worked with College London and is a Fellow of Clare Hall at the Chiron Corporation, where she served as ViceUniversity of Cambridge.
Mene is a Fellow of the President, Drug Assessment and Development.
Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal Society Bahija received a Masters degree in biology from of Biology.
In the UK, Mene serves on the Medical lUniversit fide Paris VII and her doctorate in Research Council, is on the Board of the British physiology from lUniversit Pierre et Marie Curie, Pharmaceutical Group and a Non-Executive Director Paris VI.
She conducted her postdoctoral research of the UK Precision Medicine Catapult.
at the Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry in Martinsried, Germany.
She is the President of the Board of Directors of the Association for Women in Science and she is also on the Board of Trustees of the Johns Hopkins University.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 89
