Governance Audit Committee report 73 Audit Committee report Letter from the Audit Committee chairman Details of Committee meeting attendance Audit Committee members can be found in table 1 of the Corporate governance report page 62.
Allister Langlands 9 October 2013 to date chairman from 1 February 2014 For more information about the Audit Committee including its terms of reference, Catherine Bradley 1 July 2015 to date visit: Fiona Clutterbuck 1 April 2007 to date Raj Rajagopal 8 September 2011 to date www.
We consider our existing processes The Committee would like to thank each Dear Shareholder and policies provide a solid basis for firm that took part in the tender process As chairman of the Audit Committee I am meeting these requirements.
We will and looks forward to working with PwC pleased to present its report for the year continue to consider the Groups risk during its final year as independent auditor.
ended 31 March 2016. management system and internal controls Yours faithfully in light of these updated requirements This report is intended to explain how we and work with management to identify have met our responsibilities throughout any gaps in our current processes and the year and what we have done to address implement appropriate mitigation continued regulatory change.
of the Committees activities is provided in Chairman of the Audit Committee figure 1 page 74.
External audit tender 15 June 2016 We welcomed Catherine Bradley to the In our last report to you, we explained that Committee in July 2015, and her expertise we believed our long-term audit tender in the international finance sector has policy should be based on a holistic view of further broadened our experience.
Viability statement A new audit partner from  LLP PwC was Following the changes made to the UK appointed in June 2015 following the Corporate Governance Code the Code Our responsibilities include: early retirement of the previous partner.
in 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council preparation for the annual financial We committed to conducting a full and the FRC, the Company is required to reporting cycle competitive tender of the external audit explain in the annual report how its longerintegrity and quality of the Groups contract during the financial year ended term prospects have been assessed and financial reporting 31 March 2016, with the intention that a whether we have a reasonable expectation assisting the Board with the new independent auditor be appointed for that the Company will be able to continue preparation of the viability and the financial year ending 31 March 2018. in operation and meet its liabilities as they going concern statements We chose this timeframe to ensure an fall due over the period of our assessment.
overview of internal and orderly transition from PwC to the new This explanation has become known as the independent audit processes audit firm.
Consequently, a resolution to viability statement page 37. development of internal audit plan, reappoint PwC for the financial year ending with particular focus on areas of Management has carried out modelling 31 March 2017 will be put to shareholders at potential risk and those areas of of various risk combinations and scenarios this years annual general meeting AGM.
most importance to the delivery and their impact on the Groups financial of the Groups strategy and future The competitive tender process was an performance and its ability to operate.
performance important area of focus for the Committee We have reviewed the analysis and testing oversight and guidance to during the year.
We commenced to support the viability statement and contribute to the continuing with a shareholder consultation in are satisfied that a robust and thorough effectiveness and suitability of the October 2015 and the process culminated process has been followed.
Groups internal controls in our recommendation to the Board assurance that shareholders Risk management system and controls that KPMG LLP KPMG be appointed as interests are properly protected by The Code has further implications in independent auditor for the financial year appropriate financial management, relation to our risk management systems ending 31 March 2018.
KPMGs appointment reporting and internal controls and controls, stipulating that robust risk will therefore be subject to shareholder whistleblowing arrangements assessment should be carried out with approval at the 2017 AGM.
More details on other matters in accordance with greater transparency around the potential the tender process can be found in our report our terms of reference.
impact and management of our principal page 77.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 74 Audit Committee report continued Figure 1: Committee activities During the year ended 31 March 2016, key matters considered included: Key judgemental issues regarding the Full year results and annual report preparation half yearly results Whistleblowing arrangements Independent auditor's report in respect Whistleblower reporting of the half yearly results Fraud response procedure Draft half yearly results Group tax standards and treasury manual Group control self-certification Review of internal audit findings Review of internal audit findings Internal audit plan Consideration of FRC consultation on enhancing Internal audit conflict management confidence in audit Internal auditor effectiveness and fees Independent audit tender Group's internal audit charter Committee effectiveness review External auditor conflict management Whistleblower reporting Group control self-certification Independent audit tender November March Report from the independent auditor Viability statement preparation Committee activities Half year results preparation Key judgemental issues regarding Senior accounting officer statement the full year results Plan for independent audit review Fair, balanced and understandable for half year September June determination for the annual report Plan and engagement letter for Independent auditor's report in respect independent audit for full year of the full year results Group control self-certification Draft full year results and annual report Group insurance captive Financial internal controls and risk management Review of internal audit findings Audit and non-audit fees paid to the independent auditor Consideration of FRC practice aid on audit quality Reappointment of the independent auditor Independent audit tender Group control self-certification Independent auditor effectiveness Review of internal audit findings Whistleblower reporting Risk requirements of the Code Independent auditor fees Independent audit tender Information assurance controls Whistleblower reporting The Committee discussed a number of matters following the conclusion of the financial year ended 31March2016 in respect of that year.
These included: judgemental issues regarding the Groups results for the year ended 31 March 2016, including a review of accounting policies, viability statement and going concern reviewing the preliminary statement and Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 advising the Board, at its request, on whether the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 is fair, balanced and understandable independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2016 approval of the Audit Committee report.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Audit Committee report 75 Annual financial reporting Significant issues We have reviewed the key judgements applied to a number of significant issues in the preparation of the Financial Statements.
Our review included consideration of the following: Table 1: Significant issues Issue and significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and conclusion Contract accounting revenue recognition: The Group enters into a number of large and complex longRegularly reviewed reports from We concluded that the approach term contracts which can span a number of reporting periods.
management on a number of higher risk to revenue recognition is Significant judgements are required to forecast how each contracts including estimates of forecast appropriate in the context of contract will perform over its lifetime.
project outturns, costs to complete and the Groups business model and levels of revenue recognition.
There are potential uncertainties in determining the amounts to be recovered as a result of contractual variations due to, for example, Considered control self-assessment, changing client specifications or unforeseen circumstances.
internal audit and independent auditor reports.
Judgements may include the level of revenue and profit recognition based on managements estimates of the extent to which the Group has fulfilled its obligations under the contract and the level of costs that will be incurred to complete them.
Goodwill impairment: The Group has significant goodwill relating to: Reviewed a preliminary goodwill We agreed with managements impairment calculation undertaken as recommendation that no full The Atkins North America Holdings Corporation formerly at 30September2015, using similar impairment review was necessary known as The PBSJ Corporation and its subsidiaries the assumptions in relation to future cash flows at 30 September 2015 and that ANA business following the acquisition of The PBSJ as were used at 31March2015 to determine no charge should be made at Corporation in 2010 the existence, or otherwise, of any triggering 31 March 2016.
However: our oil and gas business.
events requiring a full impairment review.
given its quantum, there remains At 31March2016 a full impairment review a risk of impairment of goodwill The issue of impairment involves making significant was carried out using updated forecasts in the ANA business in the future judgements about the future results of both these and assumptions, including testing of businesses, the markets in which they operate, along with given the ongoing challenging assumptions and sensitivity analysis.
economic and cost of capital assumptions.
In particular, oil and gas market conditions, market conditions in the oil and gas sector and the Discussed the appropriateness of the particularly in the UK and North performance of our oil and gas business, as reported in the assumptions and challenged the factors used America, there remains a risk of Energy business review, led to a closer review of the carrying to consider whether a reasonable change in impairment of goodwill in the oil value of goodwill in the oil and gas cash generating unit.
assumptions may indicate an impairment.
and gas business in the future The consideration of future results requires significant and appropriate disclosures have Received and considered independent judgement by management.
therefore been included in the auditors comments on key assumptions Annual Report note 15 to the used and sensitivity analysis performed.
Pension liabilities: The Group has significant post-retirement liabilities via the The assumptions applied by the Group We agreed with the assumptions Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme RPS.
to the Atkins Pension Plan and the RPS applied by management and were reviewed as at 31 March 2016 in with the valuation of the Groups Valuation of net retirement plan liabilities requires significant light of prevailing conditions and based on pension liabilities.
levels of judgement and technical expertise to ensure the independent actuarial advice.
assumptions applied are appropriate, as relatively small changes can have a material impact on the size of the liabilities.
Considered the independent auditor's report on the appropriateness of the The assumptions that have the biggest impact on pension assumptions.
liabilities are the discount and inflation rates applied, along with the increase in salaries and life expectancy.
Taxation: The Group operates under multiple and varied tax regimes.
The provisions held by the Group, and We agreed with managements The completeness and valuation of provisions to cover the the independent auditor's comments on assessment of the Groups tax range of potential final determinations by the tax authorities these provisions, were reviewed by the provisions.
of the Groups tax positions are the subject of judgement.
Judgement is required in relation to deferred tax assets, Reviewed the breakdown of provisions and current tax deductions and ongoing tax audits.
considered the application of tax rules in different jurisdictions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 76 Audit Committee report continued Issue and significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and conclusion Professional indemnity provisions: Due to the nature of the work we undertake for clients, there is The size of the provision held against We agreed with managements a risk of claims against our professional indemnity insurance.
any particular claim is determined by recommendations regarding the management and reviewed by the level of claims provisions carried by The Group manages a significant proportion of its Committee, based on its knowledge of the Group.
professional indemnity claims through its insurance captive the specifics of the claim, and therefore is in Guernsey.
inherently judgemental and may change over Most significant claims relate to perceived deficiencies in time as new information comes to light.
work performed by the Group.
Considered the independent auditor's report with regard to professional indemnity provisions.
We also considered a number of other judgements made by management, including those in respect of accounting for acquisitions, disposals and acquired intangibles, exceptional items, appropriateness of accounting policies, useful economic life of intangible assets and post-balance sheet events.
Fair, balanced and understandable The content and disclosures made in the Annual Report are subject to a verification exercise by management to ensure that no statement is misleading in the form and context in which it is included, no material facts are omitted which may make any statement of fact or opinion misleading, and implications which might be reasonably drawn from the statement are true.
The Committee examined the Annual Report and was asked by the Board to advise it on whether it was fair, balanced and understandable.
In order for us to draw our conclusions in this respect, we: examined the preparation and review process for the Annual Report and considered the level of challenge provided through that process assessed whether, from our own review of the Annual Report, we concurred with the results of that process considered the accounting policies applied by the Group assessed the information contained in the Annual Report against the Groups strategy and business model to ensure the information provided was sufficient to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
Following our review, we advised the Board that the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and gives shareholders the information necessary for them to assess the Groups position and performance, strategy and business model.
Independent auditor The independent auditor is currently PwC, which has acted in this capacity since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
During the year, we updated our approach to reviewing the effectiveness of the audit process in accordance with new guidance issued by the FRC.
The Committee carried out a formal review of the effectiveness of the independent auditor which included an evaluation of the qualification of the auditor, its expertise and the effectiveness and quality of the audit.
As part of our review, a questionnaire was circulated to the members of the Committee and senior management following the publication of the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The recipients were asked to answer questions which focused on the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery of audit services, the quality of the audit reporting and the quality of the people and services.
We took the responses to the questionnaire into account when considering the strategy and preparation of the audit for the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
We intend to develop the questionnaire further next year by widening the group of employees whose views will be sought.
There were no significant findings arising from the review and we concluded that, overall, both PwC and its audit process continued to be effective.
Areas where the Committee believed that the independent audit process might be improved focused on the provision of more details of the audit techniques used and increased disclosure on how the feedback regarding the effectiveness of the audit process has been acted upon.
These areas were discussed and agreed with PwC and are being addressed.
The independence of the independent auditor is evidenced in part through its challenge to management.
The rotation of the audit partner on a regular basis also contributes to the independence and objectivity of the audit process, the last such rotation having taken place in June 2015 on the early retirement of the previous audit partner.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Audit Committee report 77 Audit tender Background During the year, we conducted a tender in satisfaction of the Code requirement for FTSE 350 companies to put the independent audit contract out to tender at least once every 10 years.
Audit tender process and conclusion A rigorous competitive tender process was initiated by the Committee and led by the chairman of the Committee.
Representatives from Group finance and Group tax and treasury, along with the company secretary, also supported the selection process.
For Ernst & Young EY to tender for the independent audit contract, it would have been required to cease its appointment as our internal auditor.
It was therefore decided during the planning phase that, as we did not wish to tender the contract for internal audit services at this point, EY would not participate in the tender for the independent audit contract.
PwC did not participate beyond the pre-qualification stage of the tender process given its length of tenure as incumbent independent auditor.
Figure 2 shows the key steps we undertook during the competitive tender process along with details of the objective criteria used to assess the participants in the process.
Throughout the tender process, our primary focus was on audit quality.
Figure 2: Independent audit tender process and objective criteria Shareholder Process Objective criteria engagement Planning phase June September 2015 Timetable prepared Initial planning activities Primary focus and review of the market Audit quality, including Shareholder consultation analysis of FRCs audit quality review Execution phase Additional September 2015 February 2016 considerations: Pre-qualification Depth of business and Consultation questionnaires PQQ issued, industry knowledge October November 2015 following a desktop review Ability to meet Shareholder letters of the market, to five chosen independence parties, including two midShareholder meetings requirements tier firms Coverage and integration Preparation of materials for Updates and of the firms across Atkins bidding parties feedback provided international locations Number of parties reduced to members of the Appropriate team based on objective review of Committee at regular structure with the right PQQ responses: request for intervals throughout experience, commitment proposal issued to remaining and enthusiasm the process bidding parties Clarity of approach Structured management meetings with bidding parties Use of technology and innovation Presentations from final bidding parties to selection panel Our experience with the potential firms Our relevance and Decision Feedback importance as a client to March 2016 the various firms March 2016 Recommendation proposed Total cost of auditing Shareholder letters to the Committee and then services Shareholder meetings the Board where requested Final decision taken by the Announcement of decision Board to shareholders WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 78 Audit Committee report continued Legislation due to come into effect on 17 June 2016 stipulates that two candidates should be recommended for the position of independent auditor following a competitive tender process, with a clear preference indicated for one of those two candidates.
Given the appointment of KPMG will be for the financial year ending 31 March 2018 and will not be proposed to shareholders until the AGM in 2017, this legislation applies to our recommendation.
As required, we therefore recommended two candidates to the Board, clearly stating a preference that KPMG be appointed as the independent auditor for the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
Our decision was made without any influence from a third party and the Company was not subject to any contractual provision that restricted its choice of independent auditor.
The Committee confirms that the Company complied with the provision of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
Auditor independence The Committee recognises that there are occasions where work of a non-audit nature may be best undertaken by the independent auditor as a result of its unique position and knowledge of key areas of the Company.
Our approach is intended to preserve the independence and objectivity of the independent auditor and is reviewed and approved annually by the Committee.
Details of our processes for considering and approving such work, prior to it commencing, are summarised in table 2.
In April 2016, the FRC issued a final draft of its proposed Ethical Standard for Auditors the ESA, which will implement new restrictions on the supply of non-audit services, required by EU legislation.
The restrictions will apply from our financial year commencing 1 April 2017.
In light of the ESA, ahead of the next financial year, we intend to review our existing approach to using the independent auditor for non-audit engagements.
Table 2: Current approach adopted regarding non-audit services provided by the independent auditor Work performed by the independent auditor as a result Audit related of its unique position and services knowledge of the Company Other work circumstances Prohibited work Examples Regulatory work Taxation advice including compliance Provision of non-material systems or project Book-keeping of types services under the control of a Group project services Reporting Assisting and working with the of work manager accountants to a internal audit function Other services share or bond issue Secondment of staff other than to prepare deemed to be Internal audit services under the or other shareholder accounting records or financial statements incompatible instruction of the internal audit circulars with auditor function Systems recommendation and independence Auditing of share implementation Valuation services not material by professional schemes to the financial statements and Employment of former partners and nonor governmental Independent review where there is not a high degree partners of independent auditor regulations of the half yearly of subjectivity report Due diligence on large scale acquisition opportunities Approval Executive management via the Group finance director Management must identify independent n a required and company secretary has delegated authority to use the auditor as the best supplier in a specific field independent auditor without prior consultation with the and believe assignment will not prejudice Committee auditor independence Chairman of the Committee consulted where executive Evaluated request made to the Committee management has concerns over auditor independence Appointments for non-material fee levels Nature of, and fees associated with, that work regularly may be approved by Group finance director reported to the Committee or company secretary in his absence Executive management via Group finance director and company secretary has delegated authority to approve working with the independent auditor on commercial arrangements contracts with third parties up to a specified value, above which the approval of the Committee chairman is required Policy of not employing a former partner within two years of audit involvement Committee and Group finance director will consider employment of non-partners on an individual basis Independent auditor must approve any such engagement before it can proceed WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Audit Committee report 79 Figure 3: Fees for audit and non-audit work paid to the independent auditor 32.64% 34.11% 33.25% 2016 38.91% 26.62% 31.62% 2.85% 2015 m 0 1 2 3 4 5 Audit and audit related services Services in connection with an unsuccessful acquisition pursuit Taxation compliance services Other non-audit services Taxation advisory services Figure 3 and note 5 to the Financial Statements page 141 set out the fees paid to the independent auditor for audit and non-audit work.
Management and the Committee considered carefully which advisors were best-placed to provide taxation compliance and advisory services to the Group in light of the audit tender conducted during the year and in anticipation that these restrictions would exclude the provision of tax services by the new auditor.
In choosing advisors, we sought to ensure that: our choice of independent auditor was not restricted, and the independence of other audit firms was not compromised, during the final stages of the audit tender the chosen advisor was able to support the full international scope of the services we required any appointment could be made for the medium to long term.
We therefore considered it appropriate to engage PwC to provide taxation compliance and advisory services in light of its: global reach in countries where the Group has existing operations and where it plans further expansion detailed understanding of the Group specialist expertise in these areas likely resignation as independent auditor after the conclusion of the audit for the year ending 31 March 2017, given its long tenure.
Approximately 64% of the taxation compliance services was provided by PwC in relation to our internationally mobile employees.
This work supports our drive to increase the mobility and international experience of our people and grow our business outside the UK.
PwC's appointment was made following a competitive tender process.
Advice provided by PwC in connection with successful acquisition pursuits represented approximately 47% of the taxation advisory services fees.
We carefully considered our own approach to ensuring PwCs independence, as set out in table 2 page 78, before proceeding with the appointment for non-audit services.
In addition, we also sought PwCs own determination of its independence, including the safeguards in place.
We concluded that the non-audit services provided by PwC did not have any impact on its independence.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allister Langlands Chairman of the Audit Committee 15 June 2016 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
