Governance Corporate governance report 61 Corporate governance report Letter from the Chairman For more information about our governance framework, visit: www.
com investors governance Allan Cook Chairman Shareholder engagement Dear Shareholder Figure 1: Matters reserved We have undertaken a number of It is with great pleasure that I present for the Board include: consultation exercises with our major the Boards annual report on corporate consideration and approval of shareholders as part of our continuing governance.
This review, together with strategy commitment to an open and transparent the reports of the Nomination, Audit and dialogue.
These have included discussions general oversight of the Groups Remuneration Committees which follow, regarding the Audit Committees operations summarises our activities in this area over independent audit tender page 77 and the past year.
approval of major project bids and the Remuneration Committees proposed contracts UK Corporate Governance Code changes to remuneration policy page 82. the Groups capital, corporate, The 2014 edition of the UK Corporate management and control structures Once again I look forward to meeting Governance Code the Code has applied shareholders at our forthcoming annual approval of financial statements to the Company since 1 April 2015.
In general meeting AGM where I will be and shareholder communications response, the Board has looked in detail happy to answer any further questions you at the evolving expectations surrounding approval of dividend policy and may have.
risk management and reporting and, for interim dividends the first time, has produced a viability approval of Group policies and the Yours faithfully statement page 37.
Group code of conduct implementation and monitoring Board performance evaluation of internal control and risk The Board continually strives to improve its Allan Cook management systems performance and welcomed the findings of Chairman approval of significant acquisitions the externally facilitated board performance 15 June 2016 and disposals evaluation during the year.
We are already implementing the agreed actions and I look material changes to the Groups forward to concluding these successfully in pension schemes.
Board membership The Board welcomed Catherine Bradley and Gretchen Watkins as independent non-executive directors during the year, bringing wide ranging skills and expertise to our discussions.
The tenure of Fiona Clutterbuck, our senior independent director, has been extended until 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
Fiona has served diligently for over nine years and the Board believes that she remains strongly independent in character and judgement, as demonstrated in the recent, independently facilitated, evaluation of her performance.
Further detail on the Nomination Committees recommendation to the Board regarding the extension of Fionas tenure is contained in its report page 71.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 62 Corporate governance report continued 1 Table 1: Board membership and Board and committee meeting attendance during the year Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Allan Cook Chairman 10 10 3 3 James Cullens Group HR director 10 10 2 Heath Drewett Group finance director 9 10 Uwe Krueger CEO 10 10 Fiona Clutterbuck Senior independent director 10 10 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 Catherine Bradley Independent non-executive director 9 9 3 3 2 2 4 5 Allister Langlands Independent non-executive director 9 10 4 4 2 2 3 3 Thomas Leppert Independent non-executive director 10 10 4 4 3 3 Raj Rajagopal Independent non-executive director 10 10 4 4 4 4 3 3 6 Gretchen Watkins Independent non-executive director 6 6 1 1 1.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Heath Drewett was unable to attend one short meeting due to a personal commitment having given his comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Catherine Bradley was appointed as a non-executive director on 9 June 2015 and became a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees on 1 July 2015.
Allister Langlands was unable to attend one short meeting due to illness.
Allister Langlands was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2015.
Gretchen Watkins was appointed as a non-executive director and a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 August 2015.
Statement of compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2016 the Company complied with all of the provisions of the Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2014, except the provision which requires all directors to attend the Company's AGM and for the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to be available to answer questions at the meeting.
Unfortunately Raj Rajagopal, chairman of our Remuneration Committee, was unwell on the day of last year's AGM and was unable to attend.
A copy of the Code is available on the FRCs website: www.
The disclosures that follow mirror the five sections of the Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
Full details of the Groups governance framework are available on its website: www.
Leadership The Board is responsible for ensuring the long-term success of the Company.
It does so by determining the Companys long-term direction and strategic aims within a framework of appropriate and robust controls.
A key principle of our governance framework is the delegation of operational management to the CEO, with a matrix of authorities setting out how this is further delegated through the businesses.
This enables the efficient and effective day to day operation of the Groups different businesses.
Further details on the roles of the chairman, CEO and senior independent director can be found on the Groups website: www.
The CEO has established two teams to enable him to discharge his responsibilities effectively: the senior leadership team SLT and the operational leadership team OLT.
The SLT has wider participation and is more focused on communication and coordination while the OLT concentrates on strategy and its implementation, together with operational matters.
The OLT provides a forum for the regional, Advisory, Energy and Faithful Gould CEOs to focus on performance and to share best practice and knowledge.
The Board has reserved a number of matters for its sole consideration.
These are summarised in figure 1 page 61.
While the Board has specific responsibility for the matters reserved for its consideration, in certain areas specific responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The activities of these committees are discussed in more detail in the Nomination Committee report pages 69 to 72, the Audit Committee report pages 73 to 79 and the Remuneration report pages 80 to 111.
The committee terms of reference are available on the Groups website or on request from the company secretary.
In addition, the Board may delegate authority to a standing committee, consisting of any two directors, to provide final sign off for an agreed course of action within predefined parameters.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Corporate governance report 63 The key agenda items discussed by the Board during the year included: Theme Agenda items Performance Approval of trading updates reporting Approval of the full year results, 2015 AGM notice of meeting and associated documentation for the year ended 31March2015 Approval of the half yearly results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2015 Dividend recommendation and approval as appropriate Quarterly performance updates and business reviews including human resources HR and quality, safety, security and environment QSSE Strategy Annual review of strategy Acquisitions of Howard Humphreys East Africa Limited and the projects, products and technology business of EnergySolutions Post-acquisition review of Terramar AS Operations Significant project approvals and reviews The Groups banking facilities including a new revolving credit facility Review of the Group risk log Budget Budget for the Group for the year ending 31 March 2017 Business Asia Pacific presentations Energy and, in particular, the nuclear business Faithful Gould Global design centre, India Middle East North America UK and Europe, including the strategy for the Epsom campus Atkins Acuity, the Group's new advisory business Governance Consideration of changes to risk management, risk appetite and reporting under the Code Governance framework review Review and revision of Group policies and Board committee terms of reference Directors conflicts of interest and annual review of authorised conflicts Appointment of the independent auditor and approval of its audit fee Shareholder Updates on the views of shareholders following the announcement of results, investor meetings and roadshows engagement Independent feedback from the Groups brokers following investor meetings Reports from the investor relations director Consideration of market reaction to key announcements Employees Review of the results of Viewpoint, the 2015 employee engagement survey Board Appointments of Catherine Bradley and Gretchen Watkins Appointment of chairman for a further three-year term 2015 16 Board evaluation Approval of non-executive directors fees The Board discussed the following matters following the conclusion of the financial year ended 31March2016 in respect of that year: review of risk management and internal controls approval of pre-close trading update approval of the full year results and associated documentation final dividend recommendation.
Board membership during the year is shown in table 1 page 62 along with a summary of attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees.
Biographies for each of the directors are provided separately in Our Board of Directors pages 52 to 55.
During the year, the independent non-executive directors also met regularly with the chairman.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 64 Corporate governance report continued Allan Cooks external commitments changed during the year following his appointment as the industry co-chair of the UKs Defence Growth Partnership and as a patron of Greenpower Education Trust.
He also stepped down from his position as deputy chairman of Marshalls of Cambridge Holdings Limited.
To enable him to carry out his responsibilities as chairman, he continues to spend at least three days per week with the Company.
Directors conflicts of interest Each director is required, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, to declare any interests that may give rise to a conflict of interest with the Company on appointment and subsequently as they arise.
Where such a conflict, or potential conflict, arises the Board is empowered under the Companys articles of association to consider and authorise such conflicts as appropriate.
In addition, the Company undertakes an annual review of all authorised conflicts to ensure such authorisation remains appropriate, the last such review having taken place in March 2016.
A more detailed statement regarding how the Board operates is available on the Groups website: www.
Effectiveness Nomination Committee Details of the work of the Nomination Committee can be found in the Nomination Committee report pages 69 to 72.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes a rigorous and formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and directors annually.
In line with the Code requirement, the Board believes that an external evaluation every three years brings further insight into its performance and processes.
The last externally facilitated evaluation of its performance took place in the year ended 31 March 2013 and so this year its annual review was once again facilitated by Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
Independent Board Evaluation has no other connection with the Company.
Each time it assesses its effectiveness, the Board: reflects on its past performance and the implementation of past actions considers its future training, skills, experience and diversity requirements identifies and implements actions to improve its performance.
The evaluation process adopted this year is set out in figure 2.
Figure 2: Board evaluation process June August September October November Inputs Observe Board One-to-one One-to-one 1 1 and committee interviews interviews meetings Outputs Draft reports Evaluation Action plan 3 compiled and outcome and agreed by Board 2 discussed with reports presented chairman 1.
O ne-to-one interviews were conducted with each of the directors, the company secretary, representatives of senior management both operational and functional leadership, and representatives of third parties who have regular contact with the Board brokers and independent auditor.
The overall report was presented to the Board, reports on the committees were presented to the respective committee chairmen, the report on the chairman was presented to the senior independent director, and the reports on each of the other directors were presented to the chairman.
The chairman met each director individually, and the senior independent director met the chairman, to provide feedback on their performance and suggestions for improvement.
The review explored a number of aspects of the performance of the Board, its committees and its directors.
In summary, the Board concluded that it remained effective, with its performance overall having improved when compared with previous evaluations.
However, the Board recognises the need to avoid complacency and continually strives to improve its performance, which led to the creation of an action plan to address those areas for development identified during the evaluation process.
A summary of the aspects of performance that were considered, along with the outcomes of the review of each aspect and details of actions identified, is set out in table 2.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Corporate governance report 65 Table 2: Aspects of performance considered, outcomes and actions Aspect Consideration Outcome summary Actions Role Objectives, focus and priorities Focus has improved although further work is 1.
A dditional updates on strategy to and remit needed to develop attention on the medium be scheduled throughout the year Strategy and long term Risk management 2.
Major project reporting Responsibilities between the Group Risk improvements to be implemented Governance and compliance Committee, Audit Committee and Board are Decision-making 3.
Non-executive directors to attend now clearer Group Risk Committee meetings Clear sense of direction with well-articulated where possible headline strategy, although more regular updates regarding progress should be given Major project reporting has further improved but additional evolution required Decision-making effective and supported by appropriate information Additions made to Board since 2012 have 4.
N omination Committee to Composition Skills and experience made a positive difference to the Boards continue to consider Group Diversity capability and diversity succession plan and talent in Succession planning and talent greaterdetail The ongoing need to address risk of losing key management Board members over next few years due to 5.
Nomination Committee to assess Selection longevity in post and length of tenure effectiveness of tailored induction Induction Desire to maintain current gender programmes representation Continued need to drive advisors to identify suitable, but perhaps less visible, candidates Rigour of recent Board inductions positive Relationships Culture Culture is open and collegiate 6.
D evelop more informal networking opportunities with Teamwork collegiality between Constructive relationship between executive senior management executive and non-executive and non-executive Board members Board members Good engagement with shareholders With shareholders Opportunities to meet high performers within With senior management the business requires further development Quality of external advice Business awareness of non-executive directors is continually improving in line with time served on the Board Quality of external advice varied across different disciplines Procedural Meeting frequency, quality and Meeting frequency has improved None matters duration Quality of supporting materials has improved Chairmanship of meetings although the level of detail provided remains, on occasion, too great Quality of supporting materials Board resources Individuals Quality of contribution Discussed with each director individually Agreed with each director individually Competence Skills and experience Time commitment Understanding of the business Preparedness for meetings Understanding of role WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 66 Corporate governance report continued The actions identified will be implemented in the current financial year and progress will be considered as part of the next evaluation of the Boards performance.
Commitment During the year all directors, including the independent non-executive directors, committed significant time to the Company, in accordance with the requirements stated in their letters of appointment and service contracts.
The Board considered details of the other significant commitments of Catherine Bradley and Gretchen Watkins prior to their appointment, to ensure that they each had sufficient time to undertake their role as non-executive directors.
Development, business awareness and induction The chairman reviews training requirements with each director in order to maximise the contribution of the directors.
The company secretary ensures suitable opportunities are identified and communicated to directors.
During the year, directors have undertaken training on matters including mandatory audit rotation, cyber security and executive remuneration.
The Board also receives regular updates from the company secretary on legal, regulatory and governance developments, which highlight any impact they may have on the Board and or the Group.
On joining the Board, directors take part in a formal induction process.
This includes the provision of past Board materials to provide background information on the Group, information on Board processes and governance, site visits and meetings with key employees.
The comprehensive, tailored induction programmes for Catherine Bradley and Gretchen Watkins included a series of meetings with members of the Groups operational and functional leadership and external advisors to ensure that they both obtained a detailed overview of the Group, its businesses and governance and the regulatory environment in which it operates.
Accountability Financial reporting Statements regarding directors responsibilities and the status of the business as a going concern are given in the Directors statement of responsibility page 60.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Groups governance framework and ensuring its adequacy and effectiveness.
A comprehensive review of the changes in this area following publication by the FRC in September 2014 of its Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting was undertaken during the year and a small number of enhancements were made to the Groups governance framework.
Our Group code of conduct, Behaving the Atkins way, sets out the standards and behaviours that all employees should consider when making decisions or taking actions.
The Group code of conduct is part of our corporate governance framework and is an important element of our corporate compliance programme.
The Groups governance framework is illustrated in figure 3 page 67.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 T G C R U O D U N P O C C O F D O E Governance Corporate governance report 67 Figure 3: Governance framework Regulation legislation Articles of association Matters reserved for the Board Committee terms of reference Board Quarterly business & financial reviews Approved strategy Internal audit Policy statements Independent Group authority GOVERNANCE audit Assurance Group matrix FRAMEWORK Risk reporting Service delivery process QSSE reporting Design principles Control self-assessment Regions Businesses Business management Local legislation systems Industry Win work requirements Deliver work Budgets Business operations Risk management People Our governance framework reflects the devolved and decentralised structure of the Group, which is considered a key part of our ability to deliver services to our clients.
Under this structure the Board has delegated operational responsibility to the CEO, who then delegates authority and control to the regional, Advisory, Energy and Faithful Gould CEOs who are all members of the SLT and OLT.
Authority is further delegated from them to the managing directors of the principal operations and then downward to business and project managers as appropriate.
This approach is reflected in our governance framework as follows: the Group's policy statements approved by the Board, available on our website: www.
com , set out clearly and succinctly our vision, commitment and arrangements, including: business conduct, risk management, employment, excellence in delivery, health, safety and security, sustainability and stakeholder communication Group controls set out mandatory activities and standards that are part of the overall Group processes and apply across the Group our Group code of conduct sets behavioural expectations for everyone who works for and represents Atkins, the purpose being to reinforce the controls and underpin the ethics and values that apply across the Group, thereby protecting the reputation of our business and maintaining our professional standing and brand a Group Business Management System BMS framework incorporates all Group controls and forms the basis of each segments BMS, each of which adds the regional and industry-specific controls it requires to deliver our four key business processes of win work, deliver work, people and business operations, providing a single source of information for employees that enables them to understand their responsibilities and comply with all Atkins requirements.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 E O D F O C C O P N U D O U R C T G GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 68 Corporate governance report continued The following principles are key to the successful operation of the framework: authority is delegated within clearly prescribed limits under the Groups authority matrix decisions are escalated where either project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority activity and performance are tracked through monthly and quarterly reports effectiveness is audited via internal audit and control self-assessment reviews.
Our governance framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve stated business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Joint ventures and other investments in which the Company does not have overall control are not covered by the Groups governance framework.
For these joint ventures and other investments, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the joint venture parties or by management, but as far as possible we seek compliance with our governance requirements as a minimum.
The Board monitored and reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance framework, including internal controls and risk management, on a continuous basis throughout the year ended 31 March 2016 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Support was provided by the Board's committees, the internal audit function and the Companys independent auditor.
Audit Committee Details of the work of the Audit Committee can be found in the Audit Committee report pages 73 to 79.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration report pages 80 to 111.
Relations with shareholders We seek to establish an early and effective dialogue with shareholders regarding significant changes that affect corporate governance.
This is in addition to ongoing engagement on more routine matters.
The primary means used by the Board for communicating with all Company shareholders are the Annual Report, preliminary statement of annual results, half yearly results and the AGM.
We also recognise the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively.
An investor relations section is provided on our website: www.
com investors to facilitate communications with institutional and private investors.
This includes material shared with fund managers and analysts at Company meetings.
Our shareholders play an important role in the Groups governance and their increasingly active engagement is welcomed.
The investor relations director, alongside the CEO, Group finance director and chairman, provides a focal point for communication with existing investors and is always keen to engage with, educate and inform potential new investors.
During the year Allister Langlands, chairman of our Audit Committee, led a consultation with major shareholders regarding the independent audit tender page 77 and Raj Rajagopal, the previous chairman of our Remuneration Committee, consulted on changes to remuneration policy page 82.
The CEO and Group finance director present the preliminary statement of annual results and half yearly results to institutional investors and analysts.
These presentations are also available via webcast and or teleconference.
An analyst event was held during the year to explain our work on Londons Crossrail project.
The CEO, Group finance director and investor relations director also regularly attend conferences and roadshows to give shareholders, and other potential investors, access to management.
The non-executive directors receive updates on the views of shareholders from the executive directors, following investor meetings.
The Groups brokers also provide updates to the Board on shareholder opinions and compile independent feedback from investor meetings twice a year.
The company secretary brings to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
Shareholders have the opportunity to attend our AGM, where all directors are expected to be available to answer questions.
The directors in appointment at the time, other than Raj Rajagopal, attended our AGM in July 2015 and were available to speak to shareholders.
Unfortunately Raj was unwell on the day of the meeting.
We intend to call a poll for all resolutions to be considered at the 2016 AGM.
This ensures the Company continues to follow best practice and allows all shareholders, present in person or by proxy, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their shareholding.
Details of the 2016 AGM are set out in the separate notice of meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allan Cook Chairman 15 June 2016 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016
