Governance Nomination Committee report 69 Nomination Committee report Letter from the Nomination Committee chairman Details of Committee meeting attendance Nomination Committee members can be found in table 1 of the Corporate governance report page 62.
Allan Cook 10 September 2009 to date chairman from 1 February 2010 For more information about the Nomination Committee including its terms of Catherine Bradley 1 July 2015 To date reference visit: Fiona Clutterbuck 25 June 2007 to date www.
com investors Allister Langlands 4 September 2013 to date effectiveness Thomas Leppert 1 October 2013 to date Raj Rajagopal 1 March 2009 to date Gretchen Watkins 1 August 2015 to date our work to manage succession for our Dear Shareholder Our responsibilities include: non-executive directors can be found in our I am very pleased to report on the work evaluating the composition, balance report page 71. of the Nomination Committee.
A brief of skills and membership of the summary of our activities during the last Group succession planning Board and its committees financial year is provided in figure 1 The Committee has continued its focus on succession planning for directors page 70. succession planning efforts being made and Board committees below the Board, seeking to identify talent New appointments reviewing succession plans for deeper within the Group and ensure that We were pleased that our search to augment senior management roles development gaps are addressed to provide the skills and experience on the Board leading the selection process for a solid pipeline of future leaders.
Following culminated in the appointment of Catherine Board appointments feedback from the recent independent Bradley on 9 June 2015 and Gretchen evaluation of the Committee, we will making recommendations to the Watkins on 1 August 2015.
Following these continue our focus on robust succession Board regarding director and appointments, 30% of our directors are planning in the current year.
female, exceeding the 25% target set by Lord Davies in his Women on Boards report.
Yours faithfully Non-executive director succession It is important for us to ensure an Allan Cook appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained on the Board and its Chairman of the Nomination Committee committees, while ensuring progressive 15 June 2016 refreshing with new and diverse talent.
Fiona Clutterbuck, as our senior independent director, has an important role to play in the search for our next nonexecutive director and as acting chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The search for a new non-executive director has already commenced.
The Board, following a recommendation by the Committee, believes that the extension of her tenure until our 2017 AGM will enable the search to be properly managed and concluded.
This will ensure that both Catherine and Gretchen are fully embedded in their new roles before we lose significant experience when Fiona ultimately steps down.
More details on WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 70 Nomination Committee report continued Figure 1: Committee activities During the year ended 31 March 2016, key matters considered included: Succession planning including Appointment of a non-executive director emergency succession plan Senior leadership team succession plan CEO succession planning October April Senior management development programme Committee activities Appointment of Gretchen Watkins Non-executive director search Appointment of chairman for a Election and re-election of directors further three-year term Board committee membership July June Chairman succession planning Board composition The Committee continues to focus on ensuring that the Board remains strong and effective.
It seeks to recruit directors with the skills and diversity of perspective, experience, thinking style, gender, ethnicity and nationality to provide effective leadership, insight and challenge to support the Groups continued development.
New Board appointments We recommended the appointments of Catherine Bradley and Gretchen Watkins as independent non-executive directors during the year ended 31 March 2016.
A detailed role specification was drawn up for each appointment and we mandated that gender-balanced shortlists were presented.
Consideration was given to the benefits of all aspects of diversity, including gender, during the selection process.
Short-listed candidates were chosen on merit and against objective criteria, which had been reviewed and approved by the Committee prior to the search commencing.
Particular consideration was given to the areas of expertise that would best benefit the Board and the continued development of the Group, including corporate finance and engineering.
The executive search firm Korn Ferry provided support to the Committee for both appointments.
It has signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms launched in July 2011 and, subsequently, the enhanced version launched in July 2014, which promotes gender diversity and best practice for corporate board search processes.
During the year, Korn Ferry did not provide any other services to the Group.
Chairman The Committee, chaired by Fiona Clutterbuck as senior independent director, recommended to the Board that Allan Cook be asked to serve for a further three-year term as chairman of the Company, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Committee also considered long-term succession planning for this position.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Nomination Committee report 71 Non-executive director succession Fiona Clutterbuck has served as an independent non-executive director since March 2007.
She has reached nine years service and it was anticipated that she would step down at the conclusion of this years AGM.
Raj Rajagopal will also reach nine years service as an independent non-executive director in 2017.
On their retirement the Board will lose significant UK listed company experience and knowledge of our business and the Committee has carefully considered the possible short-term impact of this on the Boards effectiveness.
The Committee considered Fionas and Rajs potential retirements in light of the experience and tenure of the Companys remaining non-executive directors.
Allister Langlands and Thomas Leppert are nearing three years service.
Catherine and Gretchen will each have around one years service at the time of our AGM.
The Committee was mindful that Rodney Slater and Jo Curin stepped down from the Board earlier than had been anticipated following three and five years service respectively.
This middle tier of independent non-executive director experience is, therefore, not as strong in the Boards current composition.
The Committee has sought to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board and its committees, while ensuring progressive refreshing with new talent.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that Fionas tenure be extended by up to a year to enable this process to be completed.
This will ensure that both Catherine and Gretchen are fully embedded before the Board loses her, and Rajs, significant experience.
Fiona, as senior independent director, also has an important role to play in the conclusion of the search for a further non-executive director to join the Board, in planning for the chairmans future succession and as acting chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The search for a new non-executive director has already commenced but is unlikely to be completed until later this financial year.
Fiona's tenure has been extended until 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
Fiona has served diligently for over nine years and the Board agreed with the Committee's recommendation that she remains strongly independent in character and judgement, as demonstrated in the recent, independently facilitated, evaluation of her performance.
Diversity and inclusion While we are just below our own target of one-third female directors, we are pleased that, following the appointment of Catherine and Gretchen, we have achieved Lord Davies target of 25%.
The Board is committed to increasing diversity and inclusion, supporting the development and promotion of talented individuals regardless of gender, sexuality, nationality and race or ethnic background.
Figure 2 page 72 provides an overview of the Boards diversity.
Through the Groups ongoing engagement with schools and colleges, we continue to remain focused on attracting students from diverse backgrounds into a career in engineering and also to support initiatives to promote career opportunities in STEM science, technology, engineering and maths subjects to female students.
We hope that these efforts will augment the pool of talented professionals to join our business in the future.
The Our people section page 45 and segmental performance reviews pages 25, 27, 29, 32 and 35 set out our commitment and approach to diversity, and highlight some of the initiatives being used to improve gender diversity.
Group succession planning The Committee undertook a detailed review of the Groups wider succession plan during the year.
The plan continues to focus on identifying a robust and diverse talent pipeline for key management and technical roles, identifying any skills gaps to ensure that individuals can be prepared to undertake the next step in their career when a vacancy arises.
Through our review of this succession plan and other Group development activities, the Committee monitors the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and nonexecutive, to ensure the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in its chosen markets.
An external, independently facilitated, evaluation of the Board and its committees was carried out during the year.
This evaluation highlighted, among other matters, the need for the Committee to seek to maintain the Boards current gender representation and to address the risk of losing several key Board members due to length of tenure.
More details regarding the evaluation are provided in our Corporate governance report pages 64 to 66.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 72 Nomination Committee report continued Figure 2: Board sector and jurisdictional experience, nationality and gender Primary sector experience Jurisdictional experience Nationality Gender Engineering 50% Global multinational boards 60% British 50% Female 30% Finance 30% Home market 40% British Indian 10% Male 70% HR 10% French 10% Advisory Consultancy 10% German 10% US 20% Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Allan Cook Chairman of the Nomination Committee 15 June 2016 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016
