Report of the Audit Committee Dear shareholders, I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee report for 2016.
This has been our first full year as a listed company.
With the appointment of two further Independent Non-Executive Directors to the Committee, and the departure of Tom Hall, who was one of the Directors nominated by Apax Shareholders, I can report that the composition of the Audit Committee is now compliant with the David Keens UK Corporate Governance Code.
Chairman of the Audit Committee With the assistance of management and the external auditors, the Committee has considered the main financial reporting issues, estimates and judgements, and we believe that the information in Composed of three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
this Annual Report is fair, balanced, understandable and clearly David Keens is considered by the Board to have recent and explains progress against our strategic and operating objectives.
Other members have a wide range of business experience.
We believe that rigorous internal controls and robust risk management At least three meetings held per year.
processes are an essential part of delivering shareholder value.
The Meetings are attended by the Finance Director, Chief Executive, Committee has assisted the Board in performing a review of effectiveness internal auditors and external auditors by invitation.
of the processes and systems in place.
This includes the appointment of For more information on the Committees terms of Deloitte LLP as our outsourced internal audit function, who are delivering reference visit about-us.
a programme of work focusing on the key areas of risk.
Three meetings were held during the year: One of the major decisions we took during the year, following a formal tender process, was the recommendation to appoint KPMG LLP as Meetings attended Percentage of Total meetings held meetings attended our external auditors with effect from the March 2017 audit subject to shareholder approval.
On behalf of the Committee and the Board, Current members I would like to record our thanks to PwC, which has been AutoTraders David Keens Chairman 3 3 100% auditor since 2004, and has provided valuable assistance, support joined 1 May 2015 and advice to the Committee during their tenure.
The transition Jill Easterbrook 2 2 100% process has already begun and we look forward to working with joined 1 July 2015 KPMG in the future.
Jeni Mundy 0 0 n a joined 1 March 2016 Previous members David Keens Tom Hall 1 1 100% Chairman of the Audit Committee left 1 July 2015 9 June 2016 Victor Chip Perry 3 3 100% left 7 March 2016 Our progress in 2016 Our 2017 priorities Annual Report and first PLC reporting cycle.
Transition from PwC to new external auditor.
Internal audit function and approved Continued focus on key areas of judgement, risk and controls.
Review of effectiveness of external auditors and internal audit External audit tender process and recommendation function.
54 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review and monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including annual and half-year reports, result announcements, dividend proposals and any other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance.
The Committee assessed the quality and appropriateness of the accounting principles and policies adopted, and whether management had made appropriate underlying estimates and judgements.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed management reports in respect of the main financial reporting issues and judgements made, together with reports prepared by the external auditor on the 2016 half-year statement and Annual Report 2016.
The Committee, with the assistance of management and PwC, identified areas of financial statement risk and judgement as described below: Description of focus area Audit Committee action Adjusted profit metric The Group highlights non-underlying items in the income statement to The Committee considered managements paper explaining the show the impact of one-off and other discrete items and to allow better change in Adjusted profit metric and reviewed the timeline over which interpretation of the underlying performance of the business.
the transition from Adjusted underlying EBITDA to Underlying operating profit would be implemented.
Adjusted underlying EBITDA was previously used as it reflected both the impact of non-underlying items and the change in accounting for The Committee discussed with management the items considered to be technology development that was implemented in 2013.
This resulted non-underlying, particularly the inclusion of share-based payment charges.
in more of the Groups expenditure on internal development salaries being expensed as they did not meet the requirements for capitalisation.
The Committee considered PwCs view of the adjusted profit measure and consistency with other disclosures in the Annual Report.
In order to provide comparability of results from period to period, and with listed peer companies, the Directors now consider Underlying The Committee was satisfied that the disclosure was appropriate.
operating profit to be a more appropriate indicator of the performance of the business.
Underlying operating profit for the year and the comparative year is defined to be operating profit before exceptional items, share-based payments and management incentive plans.
In its first year as a listed company, the Board has implemented new employee share schemes.
As the Directors intend to make grants on an annual basis, the share-based payment charge is likely to increase significantly year-on-year until the third anniversary.
Therefore, the Directors consider it appropriate to identify IFRS 2 charges and the associated national insurance costs separately until 2018.
Share-based payments During the year the Company has implemented its first employee The Committee reviewed the assumptions made by management shareschemes.
and assessed the adequacy of the models themselves for pricing such equity instruments.
In April 2015, employees were invited to become shareholders by joining the all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP.
In June 2015, The Committee reviewed management forecasts for the number the Group implemented its first Performance Share Plan PSP for of options that were likely to vest under each scheme.
senior management and selected other individuals.
In September 2015 the Sharesave scheme SAYE was implemented.
The first The Committee discussed with management the consistency of grants under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, relating to assumptions used throughout the financial statements in determining the FY16 Annual Bonus, will be made in July 2016. the IFRS 2 charge, particularly in relation to profit forecasts that determine the proportion of shares granted under the PSP and DABP.
All such share-based payment arrangements are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The Committee reviewed PwCs report into the adequacy of the charge and satisfied itself that the share-based payment accounting The IFRS 2 charge has been determined using widely accepted is appropriate and in accordance with accounting standards.
55 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Report of the Audit Committee continued Description of focus area Audit Committee action Viability statement and going concern The Committee reviewed managements schedules supporting and The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups viability and confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that it will continue to explaining the inputs and process underpinning the going concern assessment and viability statements.
These included the Group operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due.
The period over which the Directors have determined is appropriate to assess the prospects medium-term plan and cash flow forecasts for the period to March 2019. of the Group has been defined as threeyears.
The Committee discussed with management as to whether a three-year In addition, the Directors must consider if the going concern assumption is appropriate.
If the financial statements do not appropriately reflect period was the most appropriate period to consider.
the conclusions on going concern, a significant number of accounts could be affected.
The Committee enquired as to the correlation between the principal risks and uncertainties as defined within the Groups risk register and disclosed on pages 36 and 37.
In particular, the feasibility of mitigating actions and the potential speed of implementation to achieve any flexibility required.
The Committee evaluated the conclusions over going concern and viability and the proposed disclosures in the financial statements and satisfied itself that the financial statements appropriately reflect the conclusions.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee has reviewed the content of the 2016 Annual Report and considered whether, taken as a whole, in its opinion it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was provided with a draft of the Annual Report in order to assess the strategic direction and key messages being communicated.
The Committee provided feedback highlighting any areas in which they felt that further clarity or information was required and this was then incorporated into the report provided for Audit Committee approval.
When forming its opinion the Committee considered: Is the report fair?
Is a complete picture presented and has any sensitive material been omitted that should have been included?
Are key messages in the narrative aligned with the KPIs and are they reflected in the financial reporting?
Are the revenue streams described in the narrative consistent with those used for financial reporting in the financial statements?
Is there a good level of consistency between the reports in the front and the reporting in the back of the Annual Report?
Do you get the same messages when reading the front end and the back end independently?
Is there an appropriate balance between statutory and adjusted measures and are any adjustments explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and significant issues reported in the Report of the Audit Committee consistent with disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
How do these compare with the risks that PwC are planning to include in their report?
Is the report Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report?
Are the important messages highlighted and appropriately themed throughout the document?
Is the report written in accessible language and are the messages clearly drawn out?
Following the Committees review, the Directors confirm that, in their opinion, the 2016 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
56 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management and internal control The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to risk management and internal controls is to review the effectiveness of risk management systems and related internal controls to ensure that any issues that have arisen are properly dealt with, and that going forward the systems are fit for purpose.
The Committee performs its duties by: reviewing annually the Groups system of internal control: receiving reports from the Groups internal audit function and ensuring any identified weaknesses are acted on by management: and reviewing reports from the external auditors on any issues identified in the course of their work, including an internal control report on control weaknesses, and ensuring that there is an appropriate response from management.
The Group has in place internal controls and risk management systems in relation to its financial reporting process and preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The internal control systems include: Component Approach Basis for assurance Risk management Risk register is maintained by the Operational Updated by the OLT and reviewed and approved Leadership Team OLT and reviewed and approved by the Board twice annually.
Financial reporting Consolidated Group reporting is performed on Results are reviewed each month by management, a monthly basis with a month-end pack being the OLT and the Board.
Results are compared produced that includes an income statement, against expectations and significant variances balance sheet and cash flow statement.
Budgeting and reforecasting The Group produces an annual budget and Performed using a bottom-up approach with reviews a half-year reforecast to which monthly results performed by the OLT and the Board.
Delegation of authority A documented structure of delegated authorities and Reviewed by an independent member of the finance and approval limits approval for transactions and commitments exists.
team and approval limits regarding customer discounts have been reviewed by the internal auditor.
Segregation of duties Procedures are well defined to segregate duties Reviewed by an independent member of the over significant transactions.
Key reconciliations are finance team.
reviewed periodically to ensure accurate reporting.
Whistleblowing A whistleblowing policy has been adopted which includes access to a whistleblowing telephone service run by an independent organisation, allowing employees to raise concerns on an entirely confidential basis.
The Committee receives regular reports on the use of the service, any significant reports that have been received, the investigations carried out and any actions arising as a result.
Internal audit The Committee appointed Deloitte as the Groups outsourced internal audit function during the year.
The internal audit function is accountable to the Audit Committee and uses a risk-based approach to provide independent assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment.
The internal audit work plan for 2016 was approved by the Audit Committee during the year and covers a broad range of core financial and operational processes and controls, focusing on specific risk areas as identified in the Groups risk register.
Management actions that are recommended following the audits are tracked to completion and reviewed by the Committee to ensure that identified risks are mitigated appropriately.
57 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Report of the Audit Committee continued External auditors One of the Committees roles is to oversee the relationship with the external auditor, PwC, and to evaluate the effectiveness of the service provided.
This assessment is achieved through various means, including approving audit plans, discussing materiality assessments in relation to the financial statements, reviewing the auditors reports and seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the findings of the external auditor in respect of both the financial statements for the six-month period ending 27 September 2015 and for the year ended 27 March 2016.
The Committee met with representatives from PwC without management present and with management without representatives of PwC present, to ensure that there were no issues in the relationship between management and the external auditor which it should address.
The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that the external auditor maintains its independence and objectivity.
It has therefore reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of PwC as the external auditor.
Non-audit services provided by the external auditors The external auditors are primarily engaged to carry out statutory audit work.
There may be other services where the external auditors are considered to be the most suitable supplier by reference to their skills and experience.
It is the Groups practice that it will seek quotes from several firms, which may include PwC, before engagements for non-audit projects are awarded.
Contracts are awarded based on individual merits.
A formal policy is in place for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Audit-related services directly related to the audit: for example, Considered to be approved by the Committee to a level of 100,000 the review of interim financial statements: compliance certificates and for each individual engagement, and to a maximum aggregate of reports to regulators.
Acceptable non-audit services: including but not limited to Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted tax compliance and advisory services: work related to mergers, services over these limits is subject to the specific approval of acquisition, disposals, joint ventures, or circulars: benchmarking the Audit Committee.
services: and corporate governance advice.
Prohibited services: where the auditors objectivity and Prohibited.
independence may be compromised by the threat of self-interest, self-review, management, advocacy, familiarity or intimidation for example, accounting services, internal audit services, valuation services and financial systems consultancy.
co. uk investors for full details of the policy.
During the year, PwC charged the Group 0.1m 2015: 2.6m, which included matters relating to the listing on the London Stock Exchange for non-audit services, as outlined in note 4 to the financial statements.
58 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements External audit tender process A formal tender process was undertaken during 2016, in relation to the audit for the year to March 2017.
The Committee has a formal policy to tender at least once every 10 years.
PwC has been the Groups auditor since 2004.
The Committee considered the need to undertake a tender process in 2015 and concluded that, given the short length of time from the IPO, it was appropriate to retain PwC for the 2016 financial year end at least.
The tender process has since been completed, led by the Committee, with a selection panel appointed to undertake much of the detailed work.
Three audit firms, including the incumbent auditor, were invited to tender.
During the process, the tendering firms met with key personnel within the Group and were provided with detailed information about the Groups operations.
The process culminated in written proposals being submitted and presented to the selection panel.
The panel and the Committee assessed the proposals against the following pre-defined selection criteria: Skills, experience and commitment.
Quality of interactions and proposal.
Service approach and value add.
The Committees recommendation to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed as external auditor for the financial year ending March 2017 was accepted, and a resolution to propose the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors will be put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 statement of compliance The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review, other than in the timing of the audit tender process which was discussed with the Authority at the time of the Companys IPO.
David Keens Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 June 2016 59 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
