Report of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholders, I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nomination Committee for 2016.
Role of the Committee The Committee has responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates for appointment as Directors for approval by the Board.
Ed Williams Chairman of The Committee will also make recommendations to the Board the Nomination concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director as Committee he or she reaches the end of the period of their initial appointment three years, and on the annual election and re-election of any Composed of the Chairman and three Independent Director by shareholders after evaluating the balance of skills, Non-Executive Directors.
knowledge and experience of each Director.
At least two meetings held per year.
Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive Activities during the year and other relevant attendees by invitation.
In our first full year as a listed Company and a member of the FTSE For more information on the Committees terms of 250, the Committee successfully identified and nominated three reference visit about-us.
candidates to be appointed as Independent Non-Executive Directors, bringing our Board composition and Committee membership into line Four meetings were held during the year: with the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Meetings attended Percentage of The process for identifying candidates was led by the Committee.
Total meetings held meetings attended Current members Comprehensive candidate search briefs were agreed, including the required industry and public company skills, knowledge and Ed Williams Chairman 4 4 100% experience required for new Non-Executive Directors.
David Keens 3 3 100% joined 1 May 2015 An external executive recruitment consultant, JCA Partners LLP, Jill Easterbrook 2 2 100% was engaged, with whom the Group has no other relationship.
joined 1 July 2015 The shortlisted candidates each met with members of the Board on Jeni Mundy 1 1 100% a one-on-one basis before the Committee made its recommendation joined 1 March 2016 of the preferred candidates to the Board.
Previous members Tom Hall 3 3 100% A formal internal evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual left 7 March 2016 Directors took place during the year, led by the Committee.
The process Victor Chip Perry 3 3 100% and the outcomes of this are summarised in the Corporate Governance left 7 March 2016 statement on page 51.
Our progress in 2016 Our 2017 priorities Selection process and recommendation to the Board Follow up on Board evaluation actions.
to appoint three new Non-Executive Directors.
Focus on diversity at senior management level and deeper into Oversaw the first internal Board evaluation.
Reviewed succession planning for the Board, Executive Directors Keep the Board and Committee membership under review and the senior management team.
to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience.
52 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee also carried out an extensive succession planning Board composition review, covering the Chairman, members of the Board, Executive As at 27 March 2016 Directors and the Senior Management team, and various actions are being taken to ensure that robust plans are in place.
3 Policy on appointments to the Board 2 The most important priority of the Committee has been, and will continue to be, ensuring that members of the Board should collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and industry knowledge, 1 and business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
Chairman Appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria and with Independent Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Committee takes account of a variety of factors before recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge and diversity.
Board diversity As at 27 March 2016 AutoTrader endeavours to achieve appropriate diversity, including gender diversity, throughout the Company and concurs with the recommendations of Lord Davies review.
We have adopted the 2 recommended target of female representation on our Board of 25%, and we have met this target, as two of our six Board members are female.
These appointments were made based on merit, against 4 objective criteria, to ensure we appointed the best individual for each role.
Male I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work Female of the Committee.
Ed Williams Chairman of the Nomination Committee 9 June 2016 53 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
