Board of Directors David Keens Jill Easterbrook Trevor Mather Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive David was appointed as a Non-Executive Jill was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Trevor joined AutoTrader as Chief Executive Director on 1 May 2015.
David was to the Board on 1 July 2015.
Jill was previously in June 2013.
Previously, Trevor was President previously Group Finance Director of NEXT plc amember of the executive committee at Tesco and CEO of ThoughtWorks, a global IT and 1991 to 2015 and its Group Treasurer 1986 PLC where she was most recently the Group software consulting company.
Previous management experience Business Transformation Director.
She joined ThoughtWorks in 2001, to kick-start the includes nine years in the UK and overseas Tesco in 2001 and held a variety of strategic UK branch of the company and then took operations of multinational food manufacturer and operational leadership roles.
She has responsibility for all international operations Nabisco 1977 to 1986 and prior to that seven run a number of multichannel businesses before becoming CEO in 2007.
He helped years in the accountancy profession.
within Tesco including UK and ROI Clothing oversee the business grow from a 300 person and the Developing Businesses division.
North American company to a 2,200 person Appointed to Board: May 2015.
Jill started her career at Marks & Spencer global business with operations in 29 cities in buying and merchandising and also spent around the world with a particular personal Independent: Yes.
time as a management consultant with focus on helping businesses become truly digital.
Before his time at ThoughtWorks, Trevor spent almost 10 years at Andersen Consulting now Committee memberships: Appointed to Board: July 2015.
Accenture focusing on e-business solutions.
Trevor holds an MEng in Aeronautics and Independent: Yes.
Committee memberships: Independent: N A. Remuneration Chairman, Nomination, Audit.
46 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Jeni Mundy Sean Glithero Ed Williams Independent Non-Executive Director Finance Director and Company Secretary Chairman Jeni was appointed as a Non-Executive Director After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Ed has been a Non-Executive Director of on 1 March 2016.
Jeni is the Enterprise Product Ernst & Young, working within both the audit and AutoTrader since November 2010 and Chairman Management Director for Vodafone Group and is corporate finance departments, Sean worked since March 2014.
He was the founding Chief responsible for the strategy, delivery and lifecycle in the telecoms industry and for the FTSE 100 Executive of Rightmove plc, serving in that management of the product portfolio worldwide.
company BPB plc, before joining AutoTrader capacity from November 2000 until his retirement Jeni started her career as a Radio Engineer with as Group Financial Controller in 2006.
He has from the business in April 2013.
Rightmove plc BellSouth in New Zealand and has been with since held various group and divisional roles was floated on the London Stock Exchange Vodafone since 1998.
Her roles have included in the business, helping the business reshape in February 2006.
Prior to Rightmove, Ed spent five years as Chief Technology Officer CTO through acquisitions and disposals as well as the majority of his career as a management in New Zealand managing IT and the mobile aiding the transition online through restructuring consultant with Accenture and McKinsey & Co. network, five years as the Vodafone UK CTO and and realignment programmes.
Sean was Ed holds an MA in Philosophy, Politics and a year leading the Northern Europe Sales team appointed Finance Director in September Economics from St Annes College, Oxford.
Jeni holds an MSc 2012 and has led two major re-financings and Appointed to Board: November 2010. in Electronic Engineering from University ofWales.
also has responsibility for customer security, legal services and procurement.
Sean holds a Independent on appointment: Yes.
BA Hons in Accountancy from Exeter University.
Committee memberships: External appointments: None.
The dates of appointment shown are the dates on which the Directors were first appointed to the Board of AutoTrader Group plc or the Groups previous parent company, AutoTrader Holding Limited.
47 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
