Corporate governance statement Introduction This corporate governance statement This statement also includes items required by the Listing Rules explains key features of the Companys and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is available governance structure and how it complies on the Financial Reporting Council website at frc.
with the UK Corporate Governance Compliance with the 2014 Code Code published in 2014 by the Financial As at the date of this report, the Company is in full compliance with Reporting Council.
the provisions of the 2014 Corporate Governance Code.
However, the Company did not comply with all the provisions for the whole period as explained below.
The Board is satisfied that, despite the non-compliance with these provisions for part of the period, no individual dominated its decision-taking, no undue reliance was placed on particular individuals, there was sufficient challenge of executive management in meetings of the Board or relevant Committee, and the Board and relevant Committees operated effectively throughout the whole period.
Code provision Detail Explanation of non-compliance B.
1.2 Until 1 March 2016, less than half of the Board, For FTSE 350 Index companies, at least half the Board, excluding the excluding the Chairman, were Independent Chairman, should comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company became a member of the FTSE 350 Index during the reporting period.
The Company appointed three additional Independent Non-Executive Directors during the period on 1 May 2015 David Keens, 1 July 2015 Jill Easterbrook and 1 March 2016 Jeni Mundy, bringing the Board into full compliance with this provision from that date.
Furthermore, the two Non-Executive Directors who were not considered to be independent Tom Hall and Nick Hartman resigned from the Board on 7 March 2016.
C. 3.1 Until 1 July 2015, the Audit Committee Until 1 May 2015, the Audit Committee was chaired by Tom Hall did not comprise three Independent Non-Executive Director and its members were Ed Williams Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman and Chip Perry Independent Non-Executive Director.
On 1 May 2015, David Keens was appointed as Audit Committee Chairman, Tom Hall became a Committee Member and Ed Williams stepped down as a member of the Committee.
Jill Easterbrook joined the Committee on 1 July 2015, and Tom Hall stepped down as a member of the Committee, and so with effect from that date, the composition of the Audit Committee was in full compliance with the Code.
Until 1 July 2015, the Remuneration Committee Until 1 July 2015, the Remuneration Committee was chaired by did not comprise three Independent NonEd Williams Chairman and its other member was Chip Perry Executive Directors.
David Keens joined the Remuneration Committee on his appointment on 1 May 2015.
On 1 July 2015, Jill Easterbrook was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman, and Ed Williams stepped down from the Remuneration Committee, and so with effect from that date, the composition of the Remuneration Committee was in full compliance with the Code.
48 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board and Committee meetings and attendance Chairman Leadership and governance of the Board.
Board meetings are scheduled to coincide with key events in the Ensuring its effectiveness by creating and corporate calendar including the interim and final results and the managing constructive relationships between Annual General Meeting AGM.
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Ensuring ongoing and effective communication between the Board and its All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers key shareholders.
circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the Setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that meetings.
There is also a monthly financial update call at which the adequate time is available for discussions.
Board discusses results with operational management.
A two-day Ensuring the Board receives sufficient, strategy meeting is also held each year.
pertinent, timely and clear information.
Chief Responsible for the day-to-day operations Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive and results of the Group.
Number of Developing the Groups objectives and scheduled strategy and, following Board approval, meetings held 9 3 4 4 the successful execution of strategy.
Director Responsible for the effective and ongoing Ed Williams 9 9 n a 2 2 4 4 communication with shareholders.
Delegates authority for the day-to-day Trevor Mather 9 9 n a n a n a management of the business to the Sean Glithero 9 9 n a n a n a Operational Leadership Team comprising 1 Tom Hall 7 8 1 1 n a 3 3 the Executive Directors and senior 2 Nick Hartman 8 8 n a n a n a management who have responsibility 2 for all areas of the business.
Victor Chip Perry 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 David Keens 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 NonScrutinise and monitor the performance 4 Jill Easterbrook 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Executive of management.
5 Directors Constructively challenge the Jeni Mundy 1 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 Executive Directors.
1 S tepped down from the Audit Committee on 1 July 2015 and resigned from the Monitor the integrity of financial information, Board on 7March 2016. financial controls and systems 2 Resigned on 7 March 2016. of risk management.
Senior Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman.
Independent Available to shareholders if they have Director concerns which the normal channels through Board roles the Chairman, Chief Executive or other The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are not exercised by Directors have failed to resolve.
the same person, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head Meets with the other Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between without Executive Directors present.
Leads the annual evaluation of the the Chairman, Ed Williams, and the Chief Executive, Trevor Mather, Chairmans performance.
have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing.
Company Available to all Directors to provide advice David Keens replaced Chip Perry as the Senior Independent Director Secretary and assistance.
Responsible for providing governance advice.
on joining the Board on 1 May 2015.
Ensures compliance with the Boards procedures, and with applicable rules All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company and regulations.
Secretary, Sean Glithero, who is also the Finance Director.
Acts as secretary to the Board and all Committees.
Board composition At the date of this report, the Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, three Independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 46 and 47.
In accordance with main principle B.
1 of the Code, the Board and its Committees have an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
49 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Corporate governance statement continued Board balance and independence Letters of appointment At 27 March 2016 and to the date of this report, the Company is The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of compliant with the Code provision that at least half the Board, appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office excluding the Chairman, should comprise Independent Non-Executive of the Company during normal business hours and at the place of the Directors.
The Company became compliant with this provision on AGM from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
1 March 2016 with Jeni Mundys appointment to the Board.
Induction and development All of the current Non-Executive Directors David Keens, Jill Easterbrook and All newly appointed Directors receive an induction briefing on their Jeni Mundy, are considered to be independent in character and judgement, duties and responsibilities as Directors of a publicly quoted company, and free of any business or other relationship which could materially and meet with key members of senior management in order to influence their judgement.
Chip Perry, who resigned from the Board on familiarise themselves with the Group and its activities.
All Directors 7 March 2016, was also considered to be independent for the same are offered the opportunity to meet with customers and take part in reasons.
Ed Williams was considered to be independent on appointment.
sales calls to understand the business from a customers perspective.
The Board as a whole is updated, as necessary, in light of any The Chairmans fees and the Non-Executive Directors fees are governance developments as and when they occur.
Specific disclosed on page 62, and they received no additional remuneration business-related presentations are given to the Board by senior from the Company during the year.
management and external advisors when appropriate.
Until 7 March 2016, the Company had a relationship agreement As part of the Board evaluation, the Chairman met with each Director the Relationship Agreement in place with its principal shareholders, to discuss any individual training and development needs.
funds advised by Apax the Apax Shareholders.
While the Relationship Agreement was in force, the Apax Shareholders were entitled to appoint During 2015 16 the Board learned more about: two Non-Executive Directors, providing they and any of their respective audience and brand: display advertising market: associates, when taken together held voting rights over 20% or more competitive position: network effects and pricing of the Companys issued share capital, and one Non-Executive Director regulatory environment: in two-sided markets: providing they and any of their respective associates, when taken technology: new product together held voting rights over 10% or more of the Companys business continuity planning: development: and issued share capital.
The two Non-Executive Directors appointed by, cyber security: our customers viewpoint.
and representing the Apax Shareholders were Tom Hall and Nick Hartman, and they were therefore not considered to be independent.
Information and support available to Directors On 26 February 2016, the Apax Shareholders disposed of shares Full and timely access to all relevant information is given to the Board.
such that their combined holding fell below 10% of the Companys For Board meetings, this consists of a formal agenda, minutes of issued share capital.
Tom Hall and Nick Hartman subsequently resigned previous meetings and a comprehensive set of papers including from the Board with effect from 7 March 2016, and therefore the regular business progress reports, provided to Directors in a timely Relationship Agreement was terminated from that date.
manner in advance of meetings.
Appointments to the Board All the Directors have the right to have their opposition to, or concerns Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for an initial term of up to over, any Board decision noted in the minutes.
Directors are entitled three years.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve two to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense three-year terms, although the Board may invite the Director to serve for in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary.
Refer to the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 52 for more information on the appointment process.
Election of Directors The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a External directorships vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so Any external appointments or other significant commitments of appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next AGM the Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
Neither of and shall then be eligible for election by the shareholders.
the Executive Directors have any external directorships as at the date of this report.
During the year, Ed Williams was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Idealista S. A.
The Board is comfortable that external appointments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not impact on the time that any Director devotes to the Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare conflicts of interests and for such conflicts to be considered for authorisation.
50 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board evaluation and effectiveness Relations with shareholders A formal internal evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual The Company recognises the importance of communicating with Directors has taken place during the year.
This included the completion its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are of a detailed questionnaire by each of the Board Directors, covering understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
the Boards role, knowledge and skills, Board meetings and information flows, Board composition, succession planning, risk management, The Company formally updates the market on its financial performance relations with shareholders and each of the Board Committees.
at least twice a year, at the half year and full year in November and The results were reviewed by the Chairman and the principal findings June respectively.
These updates are posted on the Groups website were fed back to the Board in March 2016.
In addition, an assessment and are available to all shareholders.
These are accompanied by of the Chairmans performance was carried out, led by the Senior formal investor roadshows in the UK and overseas.
There is also an Independent Director, and feedback was provided to him individually.
ongoing programme of meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts and conferences, covering a wide range of issues within the constraints of publicly available information, including Areas of focus for the coming year include: strategy, performance and governance.
reviewing the level of information presented in Board papers: increasing exposure between Board members and operational The Board is aware that institutional shareholders may be in more management outside Board meetings: regular contact with the Company than other shareholders, but care is formalising the induction process and setting in place formal exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all Board training and development plans: and shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time, in accordance continuing to increase the Boards understanding of the views with the Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
Questions from of major shareholders.
individual shareholders are generally dealt with by the Executive Directors.
Risk management All announcements, investor presentations and the Annual Report are The Company does not have a separate Risk Committee: the Board on the Companys website about-us.
is collectively responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price, The processes in place for assessment, management and monitoring trading activity and movements in institutional investor shareholdings.
of risks are described in a separate section on pages 33 to 34.
The Board is also provided with current analyst opinions, forecasts and feedback from its joint corporate brokers, Bank of America, Internal control framework Merrill Lynch and Numis, on the views of institutional investors on a The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and non-attributed and attributed basis.
Any major shareholders concerns maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it receives are communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors.
regular reports from management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal controls is designed The Senior Independent Director, David Keens, and other Non-Executive to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Directors are available to meet with shareholders and are offered the objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
Arrangements against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the can be made to meet with them through the Company Secretary.
system of internal controls through reports received from management, along with others from internal and external auditors.
Management Annual General Meeting continues to focus on how internal control and risk management can The AGM of the Company will take place at 10.00 am on Thursday be further embedded into the operations of the business and on how 22 September 2016 at the Companys registered office at 1 Tony Wilson to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of Place, Fourth Floor, Manchester, M15 4FN.
All shareholders have the management and the Board.
opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has carried out a review All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any ended 27 March 2016 and for the period up to the date of approval votes withheld, are indicated.
At the meeting itself, voting on all the of the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual proposed resolutions is conducted on a poll rather than a show of Report.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, hands, in line with recommended best practice.
The Chairman, the operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Chair of each of the Committees and both Executive Directors are The Board considered the weaknesses identified and reviewed present at the AGM and available to answer shareholders questions.
the developing actions, plans and programmes that it considered necessary.
The Board confirms that no significant weaknesses The Notice of the AGM can be found in a booklet which is being or failings were identified as a result of the review of effectiveness.
mailed out at the same time as this Report.
The Notice of the AGM sets out the business of the meeting and an explanatory note on all resolutions.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
Results of resolutions proposed at the AGM will be published on the Companys website about-us.
co. uk investors following the AGM.
51 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
