AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Audit Committee report THE BOARD PLACES A VERY HIGH PRIORITY ON THE INTEGRITY OF THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, THEQUALITY AND TRANSPARENCY OF ITS FINANCIAL REPORTING AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF AVEVAS RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ASSISTS THE BOARD IN ITS OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNANCE OF THESE CRITICAL AREAS positions in my career, the most relevant of which being the Chief Financial Officer of ARM Holdings plc between 1995 and 2002.
ARM is a major global technology company as well as having a similar software licensing business model to AVEVA.
Philip Dayer and Jennifer Allerton After nine years on the made up the other two members of the Board, I will be resigning Audit Committee.
Brief biographical details for all the members of the committee this year.
I will stay until are included on pages 44 and 45.
November to effect Information flows to the Audit Committee asmooth handover The Audit Committee meets at least tothe new Audit four times per annum.
Chairman and CFO are invited to attend all meetings.
The external auditor and Jonathan Brooks the Groups Head of Finance are also invited to attend.
Members of senior Audit Committee Chairman management are invited from time to 24 May 2016 time to make presentations such as the committees agenda necessitates.
The committee meets quarterly with the auditor without any members of the executive management team being present.
I also meet with the external auditor from time to time away from the Companys offices.
Risk and internal controls Having joined the Board in the summer standards and the Listing, Disclosure The key elements of the Groups internal of 2007, this will be my ninth and final and Transparency Rules of the Financial control framework and procedures report as Chair of the Audit Committee.
Conduct Authority and also reviews any are set out on page 48.
The principal At the time of writing we are in the proposed change in accounting policies risks the Group faces are set out on final stages of appointing a new Audit and any recommendations from the pages 34 and 35.
Annually, the Audit Committee Chair and in order to ensure Groups auditor regarding improvements Committee considers the Group risk a period of continuity and handover, to internal controls and the adequacy register and related management Ihave agreed to continue to chairthe of resources within the Groups finance controls.
Throughout the process, committee until the publication of the function.
The committee also assesses the Board or the Audit Committee: interim results in November 2016 at the process that has been established which point I intend to resign from both to ensure that the Annual Report is Gives consideration to whether areas the Audit Committee and the Board.
fair, balanced and understandable, should be looked at more closely reporting to the Board on their findings.
through specific control reviews: Audit Committee terms of reference Identifies areas where enhancement The Audit Committee monitors the A full copy of the committees Terms of internal controls is required: and integrity of the financial statements of of Reference, is available from the Agrees action plans to deliver the Group and the committee members Companys website at www.
the necessary or recommended as part of the full Board review all enhancements.
proposed announcements to be made Committee membership by the Group and consideration is given During the financial year, the committee to any significant financial reporting comprised three independent Nonjudgements contained in them.
As Chairman of the committee, I was deemed by the Board The committee considers the to have recent and relevant financial effectiveness of financial reporting experience.
I am a Fellow of the Chartered and internal controls, compliance Institute of Management Accountants and with legal requirements, accounting I have held a number of senior financial 46 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview of the years activities In addition to its prescribed duties the Audit Committee undertook several additional projects during the year.
Topic Activity in the year Proposed AVEVA-Schneider The committee spent considerable time on various aspects of the proposed  Schneider transaction.
There were a number of items which had to be addressed during the year, including resolving potential differences in accounting policies between the two companies, particularly those concerning revenue recognition, as well as assessing the impact of the complex structuring of the proposed transaction on goodwill and intangible assets.
In addition, all adviser fees had to be approved by the committee.
Revenue recognition The committee received regular updates from management as to its consideration of implications of the new accounting standard for revenue recognition IFRS 15.
The Company is currently targeting to be IFRS 15 ready by 1 April 2017 and to this end, managements conclusions from a preliminary impact assessment were presented to the committee in March 2016.
Viability statement and establishment The committee reviewed the work done to justify the proposed period for the new of a risk committee viability statement to be included in the 2016 Annual Report, deciding that a three-year viability period was the most appropriate given this is the Groups usual business planning horizon and also given the fast-changing nature of the software industry.
In light of the recent changes in corporate governance to enhance the overall level of Risk Reporting, the committee also established a separate risk committee, comprising staff from each business function, chaired by the Executive Vice President of Regional Operations and tasked with the ongoing review and identification of risks faced by the Group prior to periodic reviews first by the Audit Committee and subsequently by the main Board.
Risks and internal controls In May 2015, the committee received a report covering managements annual cybersecurity review and following this, cyber-security was discussed at two out of the three subsequent meetings held, reflecting its growing significance as a risk.
Separately, a series of simulated phishing attacks were conducted during the year, targeted at different users and functions within the Company, from which many useful lessons were learned.
In March 2016, the committee received, reviewed and discussed the findings of the extended external audit procedures conducted in India, which also included a visit to the Groups Indian offices by the Groups Head of Finance and the external Audit Partner.
Generally controls were considered to be good with only some minor opportunities for improvement in credit control being identified.
In March 2016, management presented a Group taxation update and assessment of current risks for the Group, particularly in India, as well as its annual treasury review.
External audit The committees intention had been to conduct an audit tender in the summer of 2015 but this became impracticable due to the talks with Schneider Electric.
Initially the intention was to defer the tender process to the autumn of 2015 but it quickly became clear this was not possible.
The tender process will now be conducted in 2016 17, following the appointment of the new Audit Committee Chair.
Assessment of AVEVA E3D pricing The committee conducted a review of the pricing discipline and penetration of AVEVA E3D since its launch in April 2013.
The review established that the licensing of AVEVA E3D had resulted in an overall price uplift of the order of 15% when compared to the previous PDMS licences, with little evidence of discounting outside of agreed parameters.
47 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Audit Committee report CONTINUED There is a formal whistle-blowing A risk assessment performed by for subsidiaries of the Group and some other statutory filing work.
In light of policy which has been communicated operational management and the Board to employees.
This policy provides to identify key areas for assurance.
expected regulation and developing practice, the Audit Committee considers information on the process to follow Peer and head office reviews of key in the event that any employee feels risk areas of financial internal control, that any permitted non-audit work should not exceed 70% of the audit fee, except it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
although it should be noted that The Audit Committee is satisfied that the enormous volume of additional with the possible exception of reporting accountants work, which would have to the process is effective and reviews accounting and due diligence work key issues which are reported.
done on the proposed AVEVAbe approved by the committee as do any projects over 50,000.
The Group Schneider transaction effectively Key estimates and judgments curtailed any new projects in this area.
engages other independent firms of accountants to perform tax consulting The Audit Committee discusses with The use of qualified third parties management and the auditor the approach to undertake specialist reviews work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of that has been taken in assessing all in more technical areas.
These include revenue 2015 16 third-party technical the auditor is not compromised.
recognition, provisions for impairment reviews were undertaken on tax of receivables, the valuation of risks in India and cyber-security.
Audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement of independence retirement benefit obligations and the An extension of the external auditors uncertainty of tax treatments in certain work in certain areas and geographies is received from the auditor each year.
The Board and the Audit Committee jurisdictions.
Annually, the committee to cover other key financial risks, such considers the going concern principle as operations in fast growth areas are satisfied that the independence of the auditor has been maintained.
The upon which the financial statements as well as new taxation risks arising are prepared and this year for the first from trading in emerging markets.
current audit partner, Marcus Butler, will complete his first year with the Group time the committee considered the During 2015 16 extended external Groups viability statement disclosures.
audit procedures were undertaken this year, having taken over from Bob Forsyth who stepped down in 2015 in India, following similar exercises in Internal audit recent years in France, Japan, Brazil, following completion of his fifth year.
The Group does not maintain a separate South Korea, China and Russia.
internal audit function, however during An annual assessment by the At the May 2016 meeting, the committee Audit Committee of the whole assessed the effectiveness of the external the past year a new role within the Groups finance function was created system of internal financial auditor.
This assessment was based and operational controls.
upon feedback from key members of the with approximately one half of this role being dedicated to internal audit activities Groups finance team as well as from the External audit Audit Committee members.
The overall and to the monitoring of risk and internal controls.
The holder of this new role The Audit Committee advises the Board conclusion was that while the audit on the appointment of the external auditor process was effective, some areas of undertook the AVEVA E3D review that was conducted during the year, which the and on its remuneration both for audit potential improvement were identified.
and non-audit work and discusses the Every second year a more detailed exercise committee found valuable and insightful.
nature, scope and results of the audit is conducted across key units of the Group.
The committee The Groups operations are geographically widely spread which means that in keeps under review the cost effectiveness Audit planning and main audit issues and the independence and objectivity of At the November 2015 meeting of the many instances where assurance over the operation of internal control is the external auditor.
Controls in place to committee the auditor presented their ensure this include: strict controls over audit plan for 2015 16.
This included a considered valuable, there is a clear advantage in such reviews of controls the extent and nature of non-audit work summary of the proposed audit scopes performed by the auditor: semi-annual for the year for each of the Groups being undertaken by teams with specific local regulatory knowledge and without review of audit independence by the subsidiaries and a summary of what committee: and an annual assessment of the auditor considered to be the most any local language barrier.
Further, the committee believes that such instances the quality of the audit service.
An analysis significant financial reporting risks of audit and non-audit fees is provided facing the Group together with the favour the provision of assurance from external sources, which is considered in note 6 to the financial statements.
auditors proposed audit approach to these significant risk areas.
The main to be both more efficient and effective than having its own central internal audit The Audit Committee monitors fees paid areas of audit focus for the year were to the auditor for non-audit work and the significant judgements surrounding team.
However, the Audit Committee does review the need to have its own delegates the authority for approval of revenue recognition and the auditor such work to the Chief Financial Officer extended the scope of its analysis separate internal audit function each year.
where the level of fees involved are while also bringing more of the smaller insignificant.
During the year the auditor entities in the Group into a full scope The Audit Committee has developed a framework to gain assurance over did perform permitted non-audit work audit.
The Audit Committee was in which mainly consisted of transaction agreement with both enhancements.
the system of internal financial and operational controls.
This comprises: support services, tax compliance work 48
