AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate governance THE COMPANY IS COMMITTED TO ROBUST PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT the diversity of background, skills and experience.
The committee oversees the 2015 16 proved to be an nomination, selection and appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors eventful year for the Board and monitors succession planning for with six months of Board and senior management roles.
discussions between The Chairman of the Nominations AVEVA and Schneider Committee and the remainder of the Electric.
Whilst ultimately Board considered the independence of Philip Dayer and Jonathan Brooks now no agreement was that both are in their third term of office.
reached, the Board was It was concluded that both remained involved closely with the independent and continued to contribute to the operation of the Board.
Jonathan transaction and discussed Brooks will stand for re-election to the at length key elements of Board at the Annual General Meeting AGM on the basis that he will resign from the proposed transaction the Board in November 2016.
The intent and associated risks.
would be to allow a transition to a newly appointed Non-Executive Director during Philip Aiken this time frame.
Philip Dayer will not stand Chairman for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
On this 24 May 2016 basis, and after considering a number of search firms, the Chairman has retained Spencer Stuart to find two new NEDs over the next 12-18 months.
The first search to replace Jonathan Brooks is well advanced with a long list of candidates screened by the Chairman: shortlisted candidates have been interviewed by the Composition of the Board Introduction Chairman and Audit Committee Chairman Throughout the year the Board I am pleased to introduce the 2016 and, at the time of writing, the leading comprised the Chairman, three NonCorporate Governance statement.
The candidates are being interviewed by the Executive Directors including the Senior Company is committed to the principles Executive Directors.
An appointment is Independent Director and two Executive of Corporate Governance contained in the expected to be made prior to the AGM.
Directors being the Chief Executive UK Corporate Governance Code provided and the Chief Financial Officer.
by the Financial Reporting Council and Operation of the Board for which the Board is accountable The Chairman, along with the Executive Brief biographical details of all Board to shareholders.
The Company has Directors and Company Secretary, members are set out on pages 44 complied with the provisions of the UK ensures that the Board functions and 45.
The membership of all Board Corporate Governance Code throughout effectively and has established Board Committees is set out on page 42. the year and to the date of this report.
processes designed to maximise its Further explanation of how the principles performance and effectiveness.
Key Board changes have been applied is set out below aspects of these processes are: The Nominations Committee has and, in connection with Directors responsibility for Board and committee remuneration, in the Remuneration The AVEVA Group Board meets composition, particularly in relation to Committee report on pages 49 to 63. regularly in combination with the Board of AVEVA Solutions Limited, the main operating company in the Group Board tenure Board composition which owns all of the Groups trading subsidiaries.
The AVEVA Solutions Limited Board includes as members the Chief Technical Officer and Head of 03 years 17% Chairman 17% Solutions & Technology and the Chief 36 years 33% Executive Directors 33% Operations Officer as well as all the 7 years 50% Non-Executive Directors 50% members of the Group Board.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This ensures that the AVEVA GROUP STRUCTURE 2016 Group Board is well informed on technical and market factors driving the Groups performance The Board as well as on financial outcomes.
The Board had seven scheduled meetings during the year.
These meetings, together with any Committee meetings, are generally Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors held at the Groups Head Office in Cambridge or in our London office and are approximately one day in Richard Longdon Philip Aiken Chairman duration.
In addition, nine unscheduled James Kidd Jonathan Brooks meetings of the Board took place Philip Dayer predominantly to deal with matters Jennifer Allerton arising related to the proposed transaction with Schneider Electric.
Each scheduled Board meeting has anover-arching theme.
These include annual technology review, business Executive team plan strategy day, succession planning, annual budget, presentations from Executive management and interim andfinal results.
The Board aims that Directors visit an AVEVA office outside the UK at least once per year and in September Chief Executive 2015 the entire Board travelled to the Groups office in Frankfurt and held a Board meeting, as well as meetings with staff and customers.
Chief Operations Officer Chief Financial Officer In addition, in September 2015 one Non-Executive Director travelled to China to meet with management and Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President staff in Shanghai to review operations.
Head of Solutions & Technology Business Strategy In addition, the Board holds a full-day strategy meeting every year at which Executive Directors and members of Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Global Sales the senior management team make Regional Operations presentations covering progress against current strategy and objectives and ideas for future investment.
Executive Vice President The Board delegates the day-toHuman Resources day responsibility for managing the Group to the Executive Directors.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors usually four working days in advance of Board and Committee meetings.
A monthly reporting pack containing management accounts with commentary and reports from each Executive is distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
41 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate governance CONTINUED Overall, the review concluded that Board Nominations Remuneration Audit meetings Committee Committee Committee the Board and its committees had demonstrated a high degree of Meetings scheduled: 7 2 6 4 effectiveness.
The Board is considered to Meetings attended: be of the right size and has appropriate Philip Aiken 7 2 6 n a skills representation.
The 2016 review Jonathan Brooks 7 2 6 4 identified three priorities in the form of the development of strategy, the Philip Dayer 7 2 6 4 monitoring of risks and succession Jennifer Allerton 7 2 6 4 planning which the Board is addressing.
Richard Longdon 7 n a n a n a James Kidd 7 n a n a n a Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and Meetings were held between the sufficient calibre to bring independent for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, Chairman and the Non-Executive judgement on issues of strategy, such a system is designed to manage Directors during the year, without the performance, resources and standards rather than eliminate the risk of failure Executives being present, to discuss of conduct which is vital to the Group.
and by its very nature can only provide appropriate matters as necessary.
reasonable and not absolute assurance The Chairman ensures that the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief against material misstatement or loss.
Directors take independent professional Executive are distinct and the division of The principal risks and uncertainties advice where they judge it necessary responsibility between these roles has the Group faces are set out on pages to discharge their responsibilities as been clearly established, set out in writing 34 and 35.
There were no significant Directors at the Groups expense.
All and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman control failures during the year.
members of the Board have access to is responsible for the effectiveness of the advice of the Company Secretary.
the Board and ensuring that it meets its The Board has established a continuous Non-Executive Directors and obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief process for identifying, evaluating Executive Directors are encouraged Executive is responsible to the Board and managing the significant risks annually to undertake training in for the day-to-day management of the the Group faces.
The Board regularly furtherance of their specific roles business, leadership of the executive team reviews the effectiveness of the Groups and general duties as a director.
and execution of the Groups strategic internal controls, which have been in and operating plans.
The Chairman and place from the start of the year to the Matters reserved for the Board Chief Executive meet regularly to discuss date of approval of this report, and The Board is responsible to shareholders any issues pertaining to the Companys believes that it is in accordance with for the proper management of the performance, reputation and organisation.
the Internal Control: Revised Guidance Group.
There is a formal schedule of for Directors on the Combined Code.
matters specifically reserved for the Committees of the Board Boards decision that covers key areas The Board has three committees: The key elements of the system of of the Groups affairs, which include: Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
internal controls currently include: In accordance with the UK Corporate overall responsibility for the strategy Governance Code, the duties of the each member of the Executive team committees are set out in formal terms ofthe Group: has responsibility for specific aspects corporate governance: of reference.
They are available on of the Groups operations.
They meet request from the Companys registered review of trading performance and on a regular basis and are responsible forecasts: office during normal business hours for the operational strategy, reviewing and are available on the Companys risk management: operating results, identification and Board membership: website at www.
mitigation of risks and communication communications with shareholders: and application of the Groups policies approval of major transactions, Details of the main responsibilities and and procedures.
Where appropriate, activities during the year of the Audit including mergers and acquisitions: and matters are reported to the Board: approval of the financial statements Committee are included on pages regular reports to the Board 46 to 48 and for the Remuneration and annual operating and capital from the Executive team on key expenditure budgets.
Committee on pages 49 to 63. developments, financial performance and operational issues in the business: Independence of Non-Executive Directors Performance evaluation operational and financial controls The Board undertakes a formal and and segregation of duties and procedures which include The Board has considered the rigorous review of its performance and authorisation limits for expenditure, that of its committees and Directors each independence of the Chairman and the sales contracts and capital expenditure, Non-Executive Directors and believes financial year.
In 2014, an extensive review signing authorities, IT application was externally facilitated by Armstrong that all are currently independent of controls, organisation structure, management and free from any material Bonham Carter LLP, the independent Group policies, segregation of duties board performance consultants.
The most and reviews by management: business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the recent review carried out in March 2016 led an annual budget process which by the Chairman and conducted following is reviewed, monitored and exercise of their independent judgement.
Their biographies on pages 44 and 45 one-on-one interviews with each Director.
approved by the Board: demonstrate a range of experience and 42 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS regular meetings between the Policy on appointment and to enable all Directors to understand shareholder views.
In addition, when Executive team, sales area managers reappointment and line of business managers to In accordance with the Articles of necessary, the Group consults with shareholders in respect of proposals for discuss actual performance against Association, all Directors are required forecast, budget and prior years.
to retire and submit themselves the remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive The operating results are reported for re-election at least every three on a monthly basis to the Board and years by rotation and also following Director, Philip Dayer, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which compared to the budget and the their appointment.
In addition, as latest forecast as appropriate: in the prior year and in accordance contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief targeted internal audit reviews and with the UK Corporate Governance extended external audits which Code, all of the Board members are Financial Officer has failed to resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate.
focus on confirming the operation offering themselves for re-election ofcontrols in key process areas: and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman, Senior Independent and Non-Executive Directors are available for maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas of On appointment, all Directors are asked dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend together with the other members the Group based on the scale to confirm that they have sufficient time of the risk and availability of the to devote to the role, which is confirmed of the Board the Annual General Meeting, but are not routinely involved in investor cover in the external market.
together with details of their duties in the letter of appointment.
All Directors relations or shareholder communications.
Corporate information is also available on The Boards monitoring covers all material undergo an induction as soon as practical controls, including financial, non-financial, following their appointment.
As part of the the Companys website, www.
operational and compliance controls and induction process, Directors are provided risk management.
It is based principally with background information on the Group Constructive use of the Annual GeneralMeeting on reviewing reports from management and attend the Groups headquarters in to consider whether significant risks Cambridge for meetings and presentations The Board seeks to use the Annual General from senior management.
In addition, Meeting to communicate with investors are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant where appropriate, meetings are also and all shareholders are encouraged to arranged with the Groups advisers.
The Chairmen of the Audit, weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive Remuneration and the Nominations Non-Executive Directors are appointed Committees will be available at the Annual monitoring.
The Board periodically carries out visits to the Groups subsidiaries for a term of three years.
The terms General Meeting to answer any questions.
and conditions of appointment of and receives presentations from local management on their operations.
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys The Board has also performed a specific registered office during normal business hours and will be available assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This involved reviewing for inspection on the day of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Groups risk matrix that had been reviewed updated by a newly formed Risk Dialogue with institutional shareholders Committee, with representatives involved from the Executive team and senior Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the Board.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Relations have meetings necessary for the Company to successfully carry out the key business strategies of with representatives of institutional shareholders and hold analyst briefings the Group together with more generic inherent risks of the Groups operations.
at least twice a year, following the announcement of the interim and full year The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
results, but also at other times during the year as necessary.
Senior managers from Indemnities to Directors Product Development, Business Strategy and Finance also attended analyst and In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are granted shareholder meetings during the year.
All of these meetings seek to build a mutual an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect understanding of objectives with major shareholders by discussing long-term of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their duties in their strategy and obtaining feedback.
The Board also receives formal feedback from capacity as Directors to the Company.
The indemnity would not provide any analysts and institutional shareholders through the Companys financial PR coverage to the extent the Director is proven to have acted fraudulently adviser and financial advisers.
The Board is appraised of discussions with major or dishonestly.
The Company has maintained Directors and officers liability shareholders to ensure that Executive and Non-Executive Directors consider insurance cover throughout the year.
any matter raised by shareholders and 43
