Board of Directors: Biographies 76 Our Board of Directors bring a wealth of industryexperience Sir Adrian Montague, CBE Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Andy Briggs Position: Chairman Position: Group Chief Position: Chief Financial Position: Chief Executive Executive officer officer officer, UK Insurance Nationality: British Nationality: New Zealander Nationality: American Nationality: British Committee membership: Nomination Committee Committee Membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Chair N A N A N A Tenure: 4 years 2 months.
Appointed to the Board as Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board a Non-Executive Director in December 2012 and as and as Chief Financial and as Executive Director in January 2013, as Senior Group Chief Executive officer in April 2014 April 2015 Independent Director in officer CEO in January Qualications: BA Qualications: Fellow of May 2013, and as Chairman 2013 Economics Swarthmore the Institute of Actuaries in April 2015 Qualications: MSc College : Juris Doctor Skills and Experience: Andy Qualications: MA, Law Management Studies University of Chicago Law 1 became CEO UK Insurance Cambridge : Qualied Waikato University School in 2017 and is responsible Solicitor Skills and Experience: Mark Skills and Experience: Toms for all Avivas insurance Skills and Experience: Sir is an inspirational CEO with financial expertise and businesses in the UK, Adrian is an experienced exceptional business strategic decision-making further strengthening chairman with extensive acumen and he has skills play a fundamental Avivas position in the UK leadership skills and a extensive experience of role in driving Avivas market.
His strategic insight wealth of knowledge of leading major international strategy and he has and business the financial services insurance companies, in continued to deliver Avivas transformation skills are industry, government both mature and growth investment thesis of cash supported by his extensive affairs and regulatory markets.
His diverse skill-set A dynamic leader and Tom has a strong track experience gained over and strategic awareness effective communicator, record of leading the more than 25 years in the facilitate open discussion Mark has enabled the finance function of Aviva insurance industry.
and challenge in the successful transfer and including successfully Previously CEO of the Boardroom.
integration of the Friends steering the Group through Friends Life business, Sir Adrian has led the Life companies and the implementation of Andys knowledge and Board in discussions on continues to develop the Solvency II.
experience of the UK Life corporate culture and Companys strategy and Prior to joining Aviva, sector is invaluable to the ethics and is an active embed its core values, Tom worked primarily as an Board.
advocate for these whilst delivering strong investment banker and has Additionally, his throughout the Group.
held senior positions in position as chairman of the is also a champion for the Mark is a champion for highly respected US rms, Association of British Aviva Community Fund, sustainable business and is including Blackstone Insurers ABI gives him a creating legacy and a key commentator on the Advisory Partners LP, where unique perspective of the supporting the role of business in society, he was responsible for UK insurance and communities in the markets particularly in creating successfully driving regulatory environment.
sustainable, long-term Blackstones business External Appointments: investment.
He is also an advising banks, insurers External Appointments: Chairman of the ABI and on advocate of championing and other financial Chairman of The the Board of Trustees of the consumer interests, institutions globally on Manchester Airports Group NSPCC.
Andy is also the particularly in the motor mergers and acquisitions plc and The Point of Care Governments Business insurance industry.
Foundation and a nonChampion for Older executive director of External Appointments: External Appointments: Workers.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Board of Directors: Biographies 77 Sir Malcolm Williamson Claudia Arney Glyn Barker Patricia Cross Position: Senior Position: Independent Position: Independent Position: Independent Independent NonNon-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: Australian Nationality: British Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Governance Committee Audit Committee Chair, Remuneration Committee Audit Committee, Chair, Nomination Nomination Committee, Chair, Audit Committee, Governance Committee, Committee, Remuneration Risk Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee, Committee, Risk Tenure: 5 years 1 month.
Remuneration Committee Committee Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Tenure: 1 year 11 months.
February 2012 December 2013 Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board in Qualications: Fellow of Qualications: BSc Hons, and as Senior Independent February 2016 the Institute of Chartered International Economics Director in April 2015 Qualications: MBA Accountants of England Georgetown University Qualications: Fellow of INSEAD and Wales: BSc Economics Skills and Experience: the Institute of Bankers and Accounting Bristol Skills and Experience: Patricia has diverse Skills and Experience: Sir Claudia brings a broad Skills and Experience: Glyn international expertise, Malcolm brings over 50 range of skills to the Board, possesses a deep gained from more than 30 years leadership notably, extensive expertise understanding of years of executive and experience in the insurance of building digital accounting and regulatory non-executive experience and banking sectors and an businesses, strategy issues together with in financial services, other in-depth knowledge of the formulation, business in-depth transactional and regulated industries and UK life insurance market to transformation and financial services government in the United the Board.
He has States, Europe and comprehensive Additionally, as Chair of the extensive experience as a Australia.
understanding of the Governance Committee, business leader and as a She brings strategic regulated financial services Claudia brings challenge trusted adviser to FTSE 100 financial capability, and a environment and thought and a fresh perspective to companies and their boards deep knowledge of leadership facilitates customer, conduct and on a wide variety of international capital constructive challenge in governance issues.
corporate and finance markets and financial risk the Boardroom and assists She has considerable issues.
Glyn has extensive management to the Board.
him with his duties in his experience, both executive knowledge of the Aviva Patricia is also a role as a non-executive and non-executive, across a Group which gives him a recipient of the Australian director.
number of sectors including balanced understanding of Centenary Medal for Sir Malcolm has been financial services, the issues and concerns of service to Australian society vital in overseeing the publishing, digital and shareholders, allowing him through the finance successful integration of government.
to support the Chairman industry.
the Friends Life business, In her executive career, and the Board in instilling External Appointments: having previously been Claudia was group the appropriate culture, Chairman of the Chairman of the Friends managing director of Emap values and behaviours in Commonwealth Life Board.
and was responsible for the Boardroom.
Superannuation transforming the Formerly, Glyn was vice External Appointments: Corporation, a nonpredominantly print trade chairman of Chairman of Cass Business executive director of publishing business into a  Schools Strategy and Macquarie Group Limited digital data and LLP PwC with Development Board, the and Macquarie Bank information business.
This responsibility for leading Board of Trustees of Youth Limited.
She is an experience positions her the strategy and business Business International ambassador for the well in her role as a development for Europe, Limited, the Governing Australian Indigenous non-executive director of the Middle East, Africa and Council of the Centre for Education Foundation.
the Study of Financial Innovation and NewDay External Appointments: External Appointments: Group Limited.
Non-executive director of Chairman of Irwin Mitchell, Derwent London plc, and Interserve plc, and a Halfords Group plc and the non-executive director of Premier League.
Berkeley Group Holdings plc and Transocean Limited.
Executive Non-Executive Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Board of Directors: Biographies continued 78 Michael Hawker, AM Michael Mire Beln Romana Garca Bob Stein Position: Independent Position: Independent Position: Independent Position: Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality: Australian Nationality: British Nationality: Spanish Nationality: American Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Risk Committee Chair, Governance Committee, Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee, Risk Committee Remuneration Committee, Risk Committee Risk Committee Tenure: 7 years 2 months.
Appointed to the Board in Tenure: 3 years 6 months.
Appointed to the Board in Tenure: 4 years 2 months.
January 2010 Appointed to the Board in June 2015 Appointed to the Board in September 2013 January 2013 Qualications: Fellow of Qualications: BSc, the Financial Services Qualications: MBA, Business and Economics Qualications: Certied Institute of Australia Harvard Universidad Autonomo fide Public Accountant, Fellow Madrid of the Society of Actuaries Skills and Experience: Skills and Experience: and a member of the Michael brings to the Board Michael has a detailed Skills and Experience: Beln American Institute of his comprehensive understanding of the has a wealth of Certied Accountants and knowledge and experience financial services sector and government and regulatory the American Academy of of the financial services extensive experience of experience and possesses a Actuaries industry, broad strategic advising companies on, and detailed knowledge of the insight and a deep in implementing financial services industry, Skills and Experience: Bob knowledge of the Company transformation particularly, insurance and has a deep knowledge of and its businesses.
European regulation, which accounting and actuarial brings continuity to the Formerly a senior is valuable in the Boards practices, and the insurance Board and his experience at partner at McKinsey & decision-making process.
and broader financial Aviva makes him well Company, where he In addition to her services sector.
placed in determining the focused on the strategies non-executive director His background as a nature and extent of the for retail and financial experience in financial former global managing potential risks in achieving services companies, and services and other partner for actuarial the Companys strategic having gained regulated industries, as a services at Ernst & Young objectives.
governmental experience former Spanish civil and in the various Michaels long career at the Central Policy Review servant, Beln has held leadership roles he held in and leadership positions in Staff now the Number 10 senior positions at the the rms actuarial and the banking and insurance Policy Unit, Michael brings Spanish Treasury and insurance practice allow industries, in both a unique perspective and represented the Spanish him to effectively challenge executive and noninsight to the Board.
Government at the and determine the risks executive roles across Organisation for Economic facing the Group and the External Appointments: Europe, Asia and Australia, Co-operation and successful execution of its Chairman of the Land enable his constructive Development and serves on strategy.
He brings to the Registry and senior challenge to discussion in various EU Committees.
Board a deep and broad independent director at the Boardroom and also in knowledge of the global the Care Quality External Appointments: maintaining sound risk life insurance industry and Commission.
Independent non-executive management and internal of dealing with regulators director of Banco controls.
External Appointments: External Appointments: Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Macquarie Group Ltd, Assurant, Inc.
US speciality Macquarie Bank Ltd, insurance, director of Washington H Soul Resolution Life Holdings, Pattinson Pty and Company Inc. and a trustee emeritus Ltd investment and Rugby of the Board of Trustees of World Cup Limited.
the US Actuarial Michaelis also chairman Foundation.
ofThe George Institute forGlobal Health.
Non-Executive Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Scott Wheway retired from the Board as at 31 December 2016.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Board of Directors: Biographies continued 79 OUR GROUP EXECUTIVES Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Group Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Andy Briggs Kirstine Cooper Chief Executive officer, Group General Counsel Keith Williams Kirstine Cooper UKInsurance andCompany Secretary Position: Independent Position: Group General Non-Executive Director Counsel and Company Secretary Nationality: British Nationality: British Committee membership: Audit Committee, Committee membership: Governance Committee, N A Nomination Committee Tenure: 6 years 3 months.
Appointed as Company Appointed to the Board in Secretary in December 2010 August 2016 Qualications: Bachelor of Qualications: Associate laws degree Glasgow and member of the Institute of qualied solicitor.
Graduate Chartered Accountants of the general manager programme INSEAD Skills and Experience: Keith Nick Amin Angela Darlington has extensive financial Skills and Experience: Group Chief Operations Group Chief Risk officer experience including a Kirstine has over 25 years of and IT officer detailed knowledge of experience at Aviva and is business planning, capital an experienced and trusted projects and project adviser to the Board.
finance gained in a number Previously Kirstine was the of industries and over 10 Deputy Group Company years of executive Secretary and Legal experience as chief Counsel and her experience financial officer at British as a lawyer together with Airways Plc.
the various senior Keith also brings to the management roles she has Board his broad experience held within Aviva make her of leading transformation well qualied to advise the and implementing Board on governance issues Sarah Morris Euan Munro technology, particularly and the regulatory agenda.
Chief Executive officer, through his role as She has significant Chief People officer chairman of British Airways experience of managing Aviva Investors where he transformed the legal risk in connection company into a customer with corporate acquisitions focused organisation.
and disposals, partnerships, His previous roles joint ventures and agency provide him with an relations, financial understanding of the transactions and litigation.
challenges and Kirstine established the opportunities faced by an legal and secretarial international business with function as a global team a multi-channel distribution and is responsible for the strategy.
provision of legal services to the Group, legal risk External appointments: management, regulatory Non-executive deputy Monique Shivanandan Maurice Tulloch compliance, public policy chairman of John Lewis and Group Chief Technologist and Chief Executive officer, and corporate member of the Audit Chief Information officer International Insurance responsibility.
Committee of the British Museum.
External appointments: Trustee of the Royal Opera House and Commissioner on the Cabinet Ofces Dormant Assets Commission.
Chris Wei For a more detailed Executive Chairman, Asia & FPI biography of eachof and Global Chairman, our Group Executive AvivaDigital pleasego to: www.
com ge Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
