Directors and corporate governance report 80 Directors and corporate governance report This report sets out the role and THE DIRECTORS EVOLUTION OF THE activities of the Board and explains Biographical details of current directors are SKILLSMATRIX how the Group is governed.
set out in their biographies on pages 76 to 79, and details of those directors seeking THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE election re-election are contained within Experience & skills CODE the Notice of the 2017 Annual General Insurance 3 4 As a UK premium listed company, Aviva Meeting Notice of AGM and on the Banking & 3 8 has adopted a governance structure based Companys website.
accounting Actuarial on the principles of the UK Corporate 3 8 Transformation Governance Code the Code.
The 2016 2016 - 2017 Board changes Law 2 5 version of the Code applies to financial As at the date of this report the Board Government 2 7 periods beginning on or after 17 June comprises the Chairman, three Executive 3 7 Customer 2016, however the Company felt it was Directors and nine Independent Non- 2 5 IT Digital best practice to adopt the 2016 Code early.
Strategy 3 8 Further details of how the Company has Claudia Arney was appointed to the applied the Code principles and complied Board as a NED on 8 February 2016 and brings a wide range of skills and experience with its provisions, are set out in this report Executive Non-Executive and the directors remuneration report.
notably in building digital strategies, Individual Directors may fall into one business transformation and customer The Board can confirm that the or more categories Company was compliant throughout the focus.
Keith Williams was appointed to the Board as a NED on 1 August 2016 and financial year under review with both the The Board recognises the role it 2014 and 2016 versions of the Code.
brings a strong financial background, plays in demonstrating effective detailed knowledge of business planning Further information on the Code can be leadership and in building Avivas found on the Financial Reporting Councils and capital projects, and experience culture.
The Board requires a broad working in the technology sector.
range of skills to ensure balanced Scott Wheway retired on and effective decision making.
To 31 December 2016, after serving nine THE BOARD support this, our skills matrix has The role of the Board and its committees is years on the Board.
In 2017 we announced been developed to meet the that Sir Malcolm Williamson and Bob Stein set out on page 82 of this report.
evolving needs of the Company, A strong system of governance would not seek re-election at the 2017 enabling us to map the current skills Annual General Meeting AGM.
Glyn throughout the Group aids effective and experience of the Board and to decision-making and supports the Barker will become Senior Independent link these to our strategy.
Director SID, and following achievement of the Groups objectives for The skills matrix will continue to the benefit of customers and shareholders announcement of the half year results in support our approach to succession August 2017 will step down as Chair of the planning in the future, providing an whilst in compliance with regulations.
The objective assessment of the Boards duties of the Board and of each of its Audit Committee but remain as a skills and experience, and what member, with Keith Williams becoming committees are set out in their respective additional elements may be required Terms of Reference.
The committee Terms the Audit Committee Chair, subject to to support the Companys strategic regulatory approval.
of Reference can be found on the objectives.
This will make any future Companys website at search process more focused and Board diversity www.
com committees and are also ensure the continuing strategic available from the Group Company The diversity charts in the Chairmans context in all Board appointments.
Governance Letter show that we have a Secretary.
The Terms of Reference list both matters that are specically reserved for Board with a sound balance of skills and experience.
The Nomination Committee decision by the Board and those matters that must be reported to the Board.
The report sets out the Boards approach to diversity, which is not just limited to gender Board delegates clearly dened responsibilities to various committees and but diversity in its widest sense.
reports from the Audit, Governance, Nomination and Risk Committees are Board appointments The Board appoints NEDs who can apply contained in this report.
A report from the Remuneration Committee is included in their wider business skills, knowledge and experience to the oversight of the Group, the directors remuneration report.
and input and challenge in the boardroom Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 33 Governance Directors and corporate governance report 81 BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES AND ALLOC ATION OF AGENDA TIME Group strategy and business significant transactions and plans 35% expenditure 6% 6 Sets the Groups strategy against which Considers, reviews and approves updates performance is monitored, andassesses ontransactions and expenditure.
progress against the business plan.
20 Financial reporting and controls, 35 Oversight of risk and risk capital structure and dividend policy management16% 20% Sets the Groups risk appetite and risk Reviews and assesses the Groups financial management framework, and monitors performance.
14 compliance with internal controls and People, culture, succession planning business standards.
and Board effectiveness 14% 16 9 Corporate governance 9% Ensures adequate succession planning, Reviews and approves all significant taking into consideration the talent pipeline shareholder communications and monitors and sets and embeds the Groups culture developments to legislation and regulation and values.
AC TIVITIES DURING 2016 Group strategy and business plans ` Continued focus on the governance framework for the Groups ` Approved the 2017-2019 Group Plan and received presentations subsidiaries and supported the roll out of the Subsidiary and reports from business units in respect of strategy execution Governance Principles and performance against the Group Plan ` Approved the redemption of its 8.25% capital securities which ` Reviewed and constructively challenged reports from the Group were redeemed on 1 December 2016, the voluntary delisting of Chief Executive officer Group CEO and Chief Financial officer its American Depositary Shares ADS from the New York Stock CFO containing updates on the Groups financial performance: Exchange, and the deregistration of the ADS and the underlying any proposed significant transactions: changes in senior ordinary shares under the US Securities Exchange Act 1934 the management: regulatory developments: and the control Exchange Act, to move to a Level 1 sponsored programme environment, together with progress against the Group Plan and significant transactions and expenditure the Groups strategy ` Approved financial matters in line with the Group Funding Plan, ` Received regular reports from the Chairman comprising updates and also strengthening of our capital position through debt on Board matters for which he is responsible such as Board raising issues composition ` Approved external and inter-group nancing ` Critically reviewed updates from the business on the integration of the Friends Life Group following the 2015 acquisition Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and ` Held an annual two-day Board strategy meeting in June 2016, dividend policy and a further meeting in November 2016, to review and agree ` Reviewed the Companys financial performance, financial results, the Groups strategy and dividend payments ` Visited the leadership teams of technology companies, further ` Assessed the Group capital and liquidity requirements including details on which can be found later in this report the Solvency II position, arising from the Companys strategy and Group Plan ` Regularly discussed topical issues as they became prevalent: during 2016 two Board meetings were called to assess the ` Reviewed reports provided by its committees on key matters of Groups position with regard to Brexit financial reporting discussed at committee meetings, providing the opportunity for the Board to input and challenge where Oversight of risk and risk management necessary ` Received reports from the Chief Risk officer CRO, and assessed the Groups significant risks and regulatory issues: approved the People, culture, succession planning and Board effectiveness Groups risk appetite: approved the Group risk policies which ` significant focus was given to succession planning.
Further provide the risk framework for managing risk across the Group: details are provided in the Nomination Committee report and received updates on the Groups capital and liquidity position ` Undertook an internal evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, the effectiveness of each committee and individual directors.
Corporate governance Further details are included later in this report ` Reviewed regular updates from its committees and management ` Reviewed the results of the 2016 Voice of Aviva survey, and on legislation and proposed consultations that may affect the discussed the organisational results in respect of culture Companys legal and regulatory obligations, including proposals to reform Corporate Governance ` Regularly discussed the current Group culture and its alignment with strategy, and initiated a project to review the culture in the ` Received assurance that governance structures remained Group and the metrics on which it could be measured appropriate for the businesses and the global markets in which we operate, while supporting the overall strategy and culture ` In addition the Board met for a half day strategic culture review Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 82 BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE STRUC TURE Aviva plc Board Collectively responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Company and for setting the Groups strategy, against which managements performance is monitored.
It sets the Groups risk appetite and satisfies itself that financial controls and risk management systems are robust, whilst ensuring the Group is adequately resourced.
It is also responsible for setting the values and supporting the culture of the Group, and ensures appropriate dialogue with shareholders on strategy and remuneration.
Audit Governance Nomination Risk Remuneration Responsible for monitoring Responsible for the Responsible for Responsible for assisting Responsible for making the integrity of the consistency of, and monitoring the balance of the Board in its oversight recommendations to the Companys financial compliance with, skills, knowledge, and management of risk, Board regarding the statements, the adequacy governance and regulatory experience and diversity and reviews the Groups remuneration policy of the and effectiveness of the requirements across the on the Board.
It makes risk appetite and risk Group and, in compliance systems of internal control Group.
In addition, the recommendations for prole in relation to capital with policy, recommending including whistleblowing Committee provides Board and committee and liquidity.
It works with the remuneration packages procedures, and the oversight of conduct, appointments and is the Remuneration of the Chairman, the effectiveness and customer outcomes, responsible for monitoring Committee to ensure risk Executive Directors and independence of the internal financial crime, corporate the succession plans of the management is considered other members of the and external auditors.
responsibility and the executive directors and when setting remuneration Group Executive.
Executive director Boards view that the majority of our NEDs Mike, Scott or Beln.
appointments are made to ensure that the should have a sound understanding of the appropriate business focus is represented financial services industry so as to be able Time commitment Each NED must be able to devote sufficient on the Board to support effective to evaluate the information they receive implementation of the Board strategy.
The and for them to provide appropriate time to the role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
The Board regularly reviews and refreshes the challenge.
The majority of the NEDs at the skills of Board members, identifying any date of this report have this experience.
Chairman assesses the time commitment of the NEDs as part of the annual review of areas of skills, experience and knowledge that we can further strengthen.
As Board independence their effectiveness, and the SID reviews the time commitment of the Chairman.
This outlined opposite, in the second half of The Nomination Committee, having 2016, we rolled out a refreshed version of considered the matter carefully, is of the assessment takes into account the number of external commitments each director has the Board skills matrix, which will be used opinion that the current NEDs remain to further promote a sound balance of independent, in line with the denition set and that each director has demonstrated that they have sufficient time to devote to Board skills, experience and knowledge.
out in the Code, and are free from any More information on the skills matrix can relationship or circumstances that could their present role within Aviva including under potential periods of particular stress, be found in the Nomination Committee affect, or appear to affect, their report, which also sets out the work independent judgement.
Over half of the for example during a significant business transaction.
Under the Boards policy on carried out during the year in respect of Board members, excluding the Chairman, Board and committee succession planning.
Scott Wheway had this matter, executive directors may hold one external directorship and must obtain Director appointments are made by served on the Board since his appointment the Board and are subject to a formal, in December 2007, and Mike Hawker has the prior consent of the Board before served since his appointment in January accepting a non-executive directorship in rigorous, and transparent process and to the appropriate regulatory approvals.
Accordingly, in early 2016 their any other company.
Executive directors performance, including their may retain the fees from any external Nomination Committee report sets out the steps taken to identify and appoint new independence, was the subject of a directorship.
No such positions are particularly rigorous review pursuant to the currently held.
NEDs, which includes consideration of diversity criteria.
Executive director recommendations of the Code, both having been on the Board for longer than Independent advice appointments follow the executive succession planning process that ensures six years.
The Board remained satisfied that All directors have access to the advice and both Scott and Mike were independent services of the Group Company Secretary there is a pipeline of executive talent available.
All Board appointments are also and would continue to make a valuable and directors wishing to do so in contribution during the year.
Scott retired furtherance of their duties may take subject to continued satisfactory performance following the Boards annual from the Board on 31 December 2016, independent professional advice at the having served just over nine years.
No such requests effectiveness review, and the Companys articles of association, which prescribe that review of the directors other interests were made during 2016. included the cross directorships of Patricia The Company arranges appropriate all serving directors will retire and stand for election or re-election at each AGM.
The Cross and Mike Hawker who are both insurance cover in respect of legal actions directors at Macquarie Group and Beln against its directors.
The Company has also NEDs also assist management in the development of the Companys strategy, Romana Garca and Scott Wheway as entered into indemnities with its directors directors of companies within the as described on page 102. which is set by the Board, so it is important that they have experience of strategy Santander group.
The Nomination Committee was satisfied this did not affect formulation, business planning and transformation.
To be effective, it is the the judgement or independence of Patricia, Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 83 BOARD MEETINGS AND AC TIVITIES IN 2016 D D O B O B D D BU B B B B S B B B B S B B BU S Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Aviva Visited the Strategy Session on UK General Investors BU BUs and offsite culture and Insurance BU presentation technology organisational presentation companies in design Strategy Singapore, update Brand & Digital BU China and Visited technology presentation Hong Kong companies in Silicon Valley UK Life BU USA presentation KEY B Board meeting D Deep dive S Strategy meeting O Offsites BU Business Unit visits THE CHAIRMAN AND GROUP CHIEF from time to time, providing a forum in materials, which include: the current strategic and operational plan: recent EXECUTIVE OFFICER which they can raise matters.
Sir Malcolm Consistent with the Board Terms of will not seek re-election as a NED at the Board and committee minutes and meeting packs: organisation structure Reference, and separately the Senior 2017 AGM on 10 May 2017 and Glyn Insurance Managers Regime SIMR, role Barker will become SID on that date.
Glyn charts: role proles: a history of the Group: and relevant policies, procedures and proles are in place for the Chairman and will remain Chair of the Audit Committee the Group Chief Executive officer Group until the half year results in August 2017, governance material.
Any knowledge or skill enhancements identied during the CEO which set out the duties of each role: following which he will step down as the Chairmans priority is to lead the Board Committee Chair but remain a member.
directors regulatory application process, are also addressed through their induction and ensure its effectiveness and the Group Role proles for the Chairman, SID, CEOs priority is the management of the Group CEO and NEDs are on the Companys programme.
Claudia Arney and Keith Williams commenced induction Group.
The Board has delegated the website at www.
day-to-day running of the Group to the programmes following their appointment and during the year Beln Romana Garca Group CEO within certain limits, above INDUCTION, TRAINING AND which matters must be escalated to the DEVELOPMENT completed her programme.
The Board believe strongly in the development of the directors and the BOARD CALENDAR During 2016, 12 Board meetings were SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR SID Groups employees.
It is a Company The SIDs role is to act as a sounding board requirement that each director commits to held, of which nine were scheduled meetings and three were additional for the Chairman, to serve as an continuing their professional development.
intermediary for the other directors where During the year, the directors attended meetings called at short notice.
In addition, the Board delegated responsibility for necessary and to be available to a number of internal training sessions on shareholders should they have concerns topics including Solvency II SII with certain items to specially created Board committees, which met nine times.
they have been unable to resolve through particular focus on the reporting normal channels, or when such channels requirements, directors duties with regard The Group Company Secretary assisted the Chairman of the Board and committee would be inappropriate.
During the year to the impact of SII and SIMR, and matters the NEDs, led by Sir Malcolm Williamson, affecting our IT architecture and related chairs in planning for each meeting and ensuring that Board and committee met to discuss the executives performance technical platforms.
An independent IT and also met once without the Chairman adviser to the Board was retained to members received information and papers in a timely manner.
Members of senior present to consider the Chairmans provide bespoke training and a holistic performance.
Sir Malcolm meets each NED view on technological developments and management regularly attend Board meetings to present items of business.
the cyber security environment in the context of the Companys strategic The Board visits different business units TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT objectives.
Training sessions have been whenever it can and during 2016, two built into the Board and committees plans Board meetings were held at Aviva ofces for 2017 and are scheduled to include SII in Singapore and Norwich.
This gave the ` Internal training sessions benchmarking, areas of regulatory focus Board the opportunity to meet the senior ` Deep Dives: In-depth sessions on and International Financial Reporting management teams and to gain a deeper particular areas and Business Unit visits Standard 17, regarding the accounting of understanding of the operations and ` An induction programme including: insurance contracts.
performance of each of the businesses.
Meetings with each director The Chairman ensures all new directors The Board also held two strategy meetings Presentations from senior receive a comprehensive induction offsite in the UK to set, and monitor management programme over a number of months, progress against, the Groups strategy.
Visits to the Groups main operating tailored to their particular needs.
Elements During 2016 significant progress was made businesses of the programme are detailed in the on our Digital First strategy, and in support Meetings with the External Auditor Training and Development section to the of this the Board held two additional and some of the Companys advisors left.
All new directors receive induction offsite sessions to meet with the leadership Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 84 BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS AT TENDANCE DURING 2016 Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Company to effectively perform their duties.
Directors receive relevant papers in advance of meetings and any director unable to attend can raise any issues and give comments to the Board or relevant committee chair in advance of the meeting.
All meetings were attended unless stated in the footnotes below the table.
Details of each committee are contained in each of the committee reports.
Audit Governance Nomination Remuneration Risk 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 12 10 6 4 5 7 Chairman Sir Adrian Montague 12 12 4 4 Executive directors Mark Wilson 12 12 Tom Stoddard 12 12 Andy Briggs 12 12 Non-executive directors Glyn Barker 12 12 10 10 4 4 7 7 2 Patricia Cross 12 12 8 10 4 4 5 5 Beln Romana Garca 12 12 6 6 4 4 7 7 Michael Hawker 12 12 10 10 4 4 7 7 Michael Mire 12 12 6 6 4 4 5 5 7 7 7 Bob Stein 12 12 10 10 4 4 5 5 7 7 3 Scott Wheway 11 12 6 6 4 4 7 7 6, 7 Sir Malcolm Williamson 12 12 9 10 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 Claudia Arney 10 11 3 3 3 3 2 2 5 Keith Williams 5 5 3 3 3 3 1 During the year there were 12 Board meetings, of which nine were scheduled meetings, and three were called at short notice.
2 Patricia Cross missed two Audit Committee meetings on 19 February 2016 and 29 March 2016 respectively due to personal commitments.
3 Scott Wheway missed one Board meeting which was called at short notice on 30 September 2016 due to a personal commitment.
Scott retired as a NED, as Governance Committee Chair, and as a member of the Nomination Committee and Risk Committee with effect from 31 December 2016.
4 Claudia Arney was appointed as a NED and as a member of the Nomination Committee on 8 February 2016, and as a member of the Remuneration Committee and Governance Committee on 1 June 2016.
Claudia missed a Board meeting that was called at short notice on 15 July 2016 due to a personal commitment.
5 Keith Williams was appointed as a NED and as a member of the Audit Committee, Governance Committee and Nomination Committee on 1 August 2016.
6 Sir Malcolm Williamson missed one Audit Committee meeting on 16 December 2016 due to a personal commitment.
7 Bob Stein and Sir Malcolm Williamson will not seek re-election at the AGM on 10 May 2017. teams of technology companies enabling operated effectively during the year.
by providing a single point of contact for them to discuss business models, customer customers no matter what product they focus, culture, and the general approach to BOARD PRIORITIES FOR 2017 hold.
The first of these was held The Board has made considerable progress The Audit, Governance and Risk in Asia, visiting technology companies in during 2016 on the objectives set at the Committees will continue to consider the Singapore, China and Hong Kong, which beginning of the year.
This included opportunities and risks associated with also aligned with a Board meeting and a progressing our Digital First strategy each business area and the Remuneration visit to the Asian Business Units, and the through MyAviva by focusing on our True Committee will assess any consequential second was held in Silicon Valley.
Following Customer Composite model, continuing to impact on reward decisions.
The Board will this, an action plan was devised to reect monitor customer outcomes and conduct maintain oversight and challenge the learnings obtained and to implement risk, and the Groups adoption of SII to management in its execution of the these within the Group.
During 2017, it is ensure we were well prepared to meet our 2017-2019 plan.
As the culture programme planned that the Board will visit the new reporting obligations.
These areas of progresses, the Board will remain close to Groups business in France.
focus were in addition to the Boards the annual all-employee survey results, routine matters, including financial Voice of Aviva.
Succession planning and CONFLICTS OF INTEREST reporting and strategic planning.
continued development of the talent In accordance with the Companies Act During 2017, IT and cyber security will pipeline will continue to be a focus for the 2006, the Companys articles of association remain on the Boards agenda, as controls Board and Nomination Committee.
allow the Board to authorise potential continue to advance in line with everconicts of interest that may arise and to evolving technological capability, so that BOARD EVALUATION impose such limits or conditions as it thinks the Company is prepared for new threats The effectiveness of the Board is vital to t. The decision to authorise a conict of and opportunities as and when they arise.
The Board has a interest can only be made by non-conicted Offsite strategy days are used to set, rigorous evaluation process each year to directors those who have no interest in the and reect on progress with the assess how it, its committees and matter being considered and in making Companys strategy.
In these sessions the individual directors are performing.
The such a decision the directors must act in a Board also discuss the strategic priorities normal process is to undertake an way they consider, in good faith, will be for the year ahead and set the three year evaluation by way of internal most likely to promote the Companys strategic plan.
In line with the 2017-2019 questionnaire, supported by discussions success for the benefit of its shareholders as plan, priorities for the Boards 2017 agenda with the Chairman, with an external a whole.
The Boards procedure is to review will be further increasing value for evaluation being conducted every third and approve actual and potential conicts shareholders and strengthening year.
However, in light of major events of interest as they arise.
This procedure relationships with customers, for example such as the Friends Life acquisition, the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 85 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION AND EFFECTIVENESS 2015 2017 EVALUATION PROCESS YEAR1 YEAR2 YEAR3 2015 2016 2017 Externally facilitated Internal questionnaire Externally facilitated Board effectiveness with supplementary Board effectiveness review and action questions review and action plan.
2016 Process Brieng Evaluation Review Output Internal Internal Internal Recommendations questionnaires questionnaire and questionnaire results considered by the developed.
supplementary and final report to the Board and each Independent Comprehensive brieng questions by IBE Board and each committee and an BoardEvaluation IBE is by the Chairman to IBE circulated.
action plan for areas an external Board to address themes Feedback analysed by offocus was agreed.
IBE raised in previous the Chairman and These will be have no other review.
assessed in 2017. connection with Aviva.
OUTCOMES AND STEPS TAKEN IN 2016 Focus area Theme Feedback Actions Board debate Operation of the ` Continue to operate to a high level, work effectively and demonstrate full commitment to their Board, respective duties.
The review found that directors are able to participate fully in and effectively committees and challenge discussion, facilitated by the Chairmans positive leadership and the culture of directors openness that permeates the Board.
Boardroom Quality and ` New board reporting templates continue to be embedded with training provided across the information detail of board Group to establish best practice reporting and inform good decision making.
There has been a papers noted improvement in the quality of information presented to the Board, allowing more time for discussion and debate.
This will continue to be a focus going forward.
Committee Overlap ` The responsibilities of the Board and its committees have been claried and efforts have been responsibilities between the made not to duplicate reporting, whilst appreciating that in some areas appropriate overlap is Board and beneficial.
Enhanced communication between committees is facilitated by detailed agenda committees planning, committee cross-membership and a summary of activities being presented by committee chairs at each Board meeting.
Board Commitment to ` In order to support the Boards commitment to having a strong and appropriate membership composition diversity which is diverse in terms of skills, experience, background and gender, the role of the Nomination Committee has been further strengthened and the Board skills matrix has been enhanced by broadening its oversight of executive succession.
Succession Board and ` This remains a continual focus as evidenced, at Board level, by the appointments of Claudia planning executive level Arney and Keith Williams in 2016.
A dedicated IT Advisor to the Board was also retained in succession order to provide further independent insight and expertise in the execution of the Companys planning Digital First strategy.
The Nomination Committee gave particular focus during the year to executive succession and contingency planning.
Customer Customer ` Customer experience, product design, customer outcome and brand identity have been a focus propositions and focus of the Governance Committees discussions and the Committee has received products management update reports at each meeting.
Going forward, and given the importance of this area, it is intended that the strategic direction of the customer experience will be a matter for the Board as a whole, with oversight of compliance with this policy and any associated management actions being the responsibility of the Governance Committee.
Shareholder Visibility of ` The Company continues to engage regularly with its shareholders and the Chairman and engagement shareholder Group CEO are particularly active in this area.
The corporate brokers are invited to attend views Board meetings when appropriate and provide an update on shareholder views which assists with this engagement.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 86 Chairmans succession and SII readiness a Governance and Risk Committees which established framework of financial reporting controls in place at the time of decision was taken to hold an external report regularly to the Board.
However, the evaluation in 2015 and conduct the 2016 Board retains ultimate responsibility for the acquisition in 2015 and work to align this with the Groups FRCF methodology was review using an internal questionnaire with Groups systems of internal control and risk supplementary questions by IBE.
Further management and has reviewed their completed in 2016.
A Major Control Improvement Topic details can be found on page 85. effectiveness for the year.
A robust assessment was conducted by programme is also in place, designed to focus attention on enhancing our control FRAMEWORKS FOR RISK the Board of the principal risks facing the MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL Company, including those that would environment around six focus areas identied by management.
Further CONTROL threaten its business model, future The Board is responsible for promoting the performance, solvency and liquidity.
During information can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 94. long-term success of the Company for the 2016 these included Brexit and cyber benefit of shareholders, as well as taking security.
Further information is contained FIRST LINE account of other stakeholders including in the Risk Committee report on page 91. employees and customers.
This includes The frameworks for risk management The Group Executive members and each business unit chief executive officer are ensuring that an appropriate system of risk and internal control play a key role in the governance is in place throughout the management of risks that may impact the responsible for the implementation of Group strategies, plans and policies, the Group.
To discharge this responsibility, the fullment of the Boards objectives.
They Board has established frameworks for risk are designed to identify and manage, monitoring of operational and financial performance, the assessment and control management and internal control using a rather than eliminate, the risk of Aviva three lines of defence model and reserves failing to achieve business objectives and of financial, business and operational risks and the maintenance and ongoing for itself the setting of the Groups risk can only provide reasonable and not appetite.
Further details are contained on absolute assurance against material development of a robust control framework and environment in their areas pages 68 to 71. misstatement or losses.
These frameworks In-depth monitoring of the were in place for the financial year under of responsibility.
Chaired by the Chief Risk officer CRO during 2016, the Asset establishment and operation of prudent review and up to the date of this report.
and effective controls in order to assess and They are regularly reviewed by the Board Liability Committee ALCO assists the Chief Financial officer CFO with manage risks associated with the Groups and comply with the Financial Reporting operations is delegated to the Audit, Councils FRC updated guidance on Risk discharging his responsibilities in relation tomanagement of the Groups balance Management, Internal Controls and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
sheet within risk appetite and provides THREE LINES OF DEFENCE financial and insurance risk management RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK oversight.
From January 2017, the ALCO has been chaired by the Chief Capital The Risk Management Framework RMF is FIRST LINE designed to identify, measure, manage, officer CCO.
Management monitoring The Operational Risk Committee is monitor and report the principal risks to the Group of achieving its business chaired by the CRO.
It supports the first Management are responsible for objectives and is embedded throughout line owners of key operations and franchise the application of the RMF, for the Group.
The RMF has been in place for risks in the discharge of their implementing and monitoring the year under review and up to the date responsibilities in relation to operational the operation of the system ofinternal control and for of the approval of the annual report and risk management.
providing assurance to the accounts.
It is codified through risk policies The Disclosure Committee minutes are Audit, Governance and Risk and business standards which set out the sent to the Audit Committee.
It oversees Committees and the Board.
risk strategy, appetite, framework and the design and effectiveness of the minimum requirements for the Groups Groups disclosure controls, for financial worldwide operations.
Further detail is set and non-financial information, evaluates SECOND LINE out in note 56. the Groups disclosure controls and reviews Risk Management, Compliance and endorses the Groups key periodic and Actuarial functions INTERNAL CONTROLS external reports, including the consolidated Internal controls facilitate effective and financial statements.
The Risk Management function is efficient operations, the development of accountable for the quantitative robust and reliable internal reporting and SECOND LINE and qualitative oversight and challenge of the identication, compliance with laws and regulations.
As the business responds to changing measurement, monitoring and Group reporting manuals in relation to market conditions and customer needs, the reporting of principal risks and IFRS, Solvency II reporting requirements Risk Management function regularly for developing the RMF.
and a Financial Reporting Control monitors the appropriateness of the Framework FRCF are in place across the Companys risk policies and the RMF to Group.
FRCF relates to the preparation of ensure they remain up to date.
THIRD LINE reliable financial reporting, covering both The Actuarial function is accountable Internal Audit IFRS and Solvency II reporting activity.
The for Group wide actuarial methodology, This function provides FRCF process follows a risk-based reporting to the relevant governing body independent and objective approach, with management identication, on the adequacy of reserves and capital assessment on the robustness of assessment documentation and testing, requirements, as well as underwriting and the RMF and the appropriateness remediation as required, reporting and reinsurance arrangements.
The Compliance and effectiveness of internal certication over key financial reportingfunction supports and advises the business control to the Audit, Governance related controls.
Management regularly on the identication, measurement and and Risk Committees, business undertakes quality assurance procedures management of its regulatory, financial unit audit committees and over the application of the FRCF process crime and conduct risks.
Friends Life had an for maintaining the compliance standards Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 87 THE PRINCIPAL COMMIT TEES THAT OVERSEE RISK MANAGEMENT ARE AS FOLLOWS THE AUDIT COMMIT TEE THE GOVERNANCE COMMIT TEE THE RISK COMMIT TEE Works closely with the Risk Works closely with the Risk Committee Assists the Board in its oversight of Committee and is responsible for and is responsible for assisting the risk and risk management across the assisting the Board in discharging its Board in its oversight of operational Group and makes recommendations responsibilities for the integrity of the risk across the Group, particularly in on risk appetite to the Board.
Reviews Companys financial statements, the respect of the risk of not delivering the effectiveness of the RMF, and the effectiveness of the system of internal good customer outcomes.
methodology in determining the financial controls and for monitoring Groups capital and liquidity the effectiveness, performance and requirements.
Ensures that risk objectivity of the internal and management is properly considered in external auditors.
and framework within which the Group the business unit chief executive ofcers COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS operates, and monitoring and reporting on assessment: and its compliance risk prole.
no material gaps exist in the RMF as it The Company places considerable importance on communication with applies to their Business Unit.
The directors have an ongoing dialogue and a programme of The third line of defence is Internal Audit.
Any material risks not previously identied, Further information can be found in the control weaknesses or non-compliance meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts which are managed Three Lines of Defence section opposite, with the Groups risk policies and business and within the Audit Committee report on standards or local delegations of authority, by the Companys Investor Relations function.
The Chairman met a number of page 94. must be highlighted as part of this process.
This is supplemented by investigations the Companys major shareholders during 2016.
At these meetings a range of issues BOARD OVERSIGHT carried out at Group level and a Group The Board has delegated responsibilities to CEO and CRO certication for Aviva plc.
are discussed including strategy, financial performance, management, remuneration various committees to assist in its oversight The effectiveness assessment also of risk management and the approach to draws on the regular cycle of assurance and governance, within the constraints of information already made public, to internal controls are set out in the chart activity carried out during the year, as well above.
There is a good working practice as the results of the certication process.
understand any issues of concern.
Shareholders views are regularly shared between each committee and they provide For 2016, this has been enhanced by the regular reports to the Board on their Groups Integrated Assurance with the Board through the Group CEOs and CFOs reports and periodic briengs activities and escalate significant matters Implementation programme IAI, which where appropriate.
The responsibilities and has helped integrate the results of from the corporate brokers, especially around report publications.
The SID was activities of each Board committee are set identication of operational risks and out in the committee reports.
Further assurance activity across the three lines of available to meet with major investors to discuss any concerns that could not be details on the management of risk defence.
Certication process results and operated by the Group are in note 56. details of key failings or weaknesses are resolved through normal channels.
reported to the Audit Committee and the ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS Board annually to enable them to carry out 2017 AGM The 2017 AGM will be held on Wednesday To support an assessment of the an effectiveness assessment.
effectiveness of the Groups governance, The Audit Committee, working closely 10 May 2017 and the Notice of AGM and related papers will, unless otherwise noted, internal control and risk management with the Risk Committee, on behalf of the requirements, the chief executive officer of Board, last carried out a full review of the be sent to shareholders at least 20 working effectiveness of the systems of internal days before the meeting.
The AGM each business unit must certify that: control and risk management in March provides a valuable opportunity for the 2017 covering all material controls, Board to communicate with private there are sound risk management and internal control systems, which are including financial, operational and shareholders.
All directors normally attend compliance controls and the RMF.
The the Companys AGM and all were in effective and t for purpose in place across the business: and review identied a number of areas for attendance for the 2016 AGM.
improvement and clear action plans are in There is a dedicated email address material existing or emerging risks within the business have been identied and place to address these, which will be aviva.
The committee reports shareholders to ask questions on the assessed and the business operates in a manner which conforms to the minimum refer to these areas and the mitigating business of the AGM.
A presentation on the Groups requirements outlined in Group risk policies and business standards.
The risk management framework of a performance will be given at the AGM and small number of our joint ventures and made available on the Companys website The chief risk officer of each business unit strategic equity holdings differs from after the meeting at www.
Avivas RMF outlined in this report.
We Shareholders are invited to ask must certify that: work with these entities to understand questions related to the business of the how their risks are managed and to align meeting at the AGM and have an the risk function has reviewed and challenged the process supporting the them, where possible, with our framework.
opportunity to meet with the directors following the conclusion of the meeting.
business unit chief executive ofcers certication and is satisfied that it can Further details on the AGM are provided in the Shareholder Services section.
provide reasonable assurance of the material accuracy and completeness of Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 88 Nomination Committee report I am pleased to present the 2016 we needed to identify a suitable Nomination Committees report for candidate to Chair the Governance the year ended 31 December 2016.
Through Committee discussions we identied the skills and The Committee continues to review the experiences we were looking for and we composition of the Board and succession were able to work efficiently with planning for executive management.
More executive search consultants, JCA Group recently the Committee has broadened its who had no other connection with remit and now has responsibility for talent Aviva, to identify suitable candidates.
This development within the wider Aviva led to the appointments of Claudia Arney Group.
Keiths strong I am confident we During 2016, we welcomed Claudia financial background make him an Arney and Keith Williams to the excellent successor to Glyn Barker as Audit have the Committee.
Scott Wheway retired from Committee Chair and following Scotts the Committee and the Board on retirement Claudia has now transitioned to appropriate 31December 2016.
I am grateful to all be Chair of the Governance Committee.
members for their support and dedication balance of skills The Committee has also spent a substantial during the year.
amount of time reviewing senior executive and experience on development and succession planning and What is the main function of the this will continue during 2017.
Q the Board Nomination Committee and how has the Committees role developed How do you ensure you have the Q Sir Adrian Montague AM Nomination during the year?
right balance of skills on the Committee Chair The main function of the Committee Board and that directors can devote AM is to monitor the balance of skills, sufficient time to their role?
This is something we regularly assess AM as a Committee and as a Board.
To knowledge, experience and diversity on assist with these discussions we have COMMIT TEE MEMBERSHIP the Board and lead succession planning for recently enhanced our skills matrix and appointments to the Board and the senior now Board members are asked, via an executive team.
online questionnaire, to self-assess their Years Recently, the Committees remit has experience and skills each year.
This matrix Member on the evolved with respect to the people agenda.
is reviewed by myself, as Group Chairman, since: Committee Responsibility for talent development for and forms the basis for succession plans for 06 03 2013 4 Sir Adrian the wider Group has been transferred from the Board.
Montague the Governance Committee and now sits In addition, the independence, 08 02 2016 1 Claudia Arney with the Committee to align with the role it effectiveness and time commitment of each 01 07 2012 4 Glyn Barker plays in the succession of senior executives.
Non-Executive Director NED is reviewed 01 12 2013 3 Patricia Cross We believe this gives a more holistic individually both by myself, as Group 26 06 2015 1 Beln Romana approach to talent development throughout Chairman, and by the Committee.
A Garca the Company, from succession planning at particularly rigorous review was conducted 01 07 2012 4 Michael Hawker the most senior level to ensuring a future in respect of both Scott Wheway, who had 12 09 2013 3 talent pipeline.
The Committees Terms of been appointed to the Board in December Michael Mire Reference have been updated to reect this.
2007, and Mike Hawker, who had served on 06 03 2013 4 Bob Stein the Board for just over six years.
As part of Scott Wheway 01 07 2012 4 What has been the Committees this review the Committee considers closely Q 14 05 2015 1 Sir Malcolm main focus in 2016?
whether directors with other external Williamson Board succession planning continues commitments have sufficient capacity to AM 01 08 2016 1 Keith Williams to be a focus for the Committee.
We devote the necessary time to the Company.
Chair identied some time ago that there was a The Committee has again undertaken this Retired on 31 December 2016 need to further strengthen the Board with review in 2017 and remains satisfied that all Will retire from the conclusion of the 2017 more experience and capability in the directors are fully able to commit to their Annual General Meeting digital area.
Also, with Scott Wheways role and accordingly all current directors, retirement from the Board in December with the exception of Sir Malcolm Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 89 CL AUDIA ARNEY SUCCESSION PL ANNING IN AC TION JUNE JUNE 2015 2015 Ongoing Q4 2015 Q1 2016 Executive search succession planning Candidates were Regulatory approval consultancy rm, JCA identied a need for a interviewed by the sought - appointment to Group, appointed to NED with specic Chairman and other the Board and the assist with the search attributes, such as NEDs Nomination Committee and a shortlist of customer focus and announced candidates digital experience identied 1 JANUARY JUNE 2016 MARCH 2016 2017 Claudia appointed as Claudia commenced a Succeeds Scott Wheway a member of the bespoke induction as Governance Remuneration and programme Committee Chair, Governance Committees appointed to Risk Committee and UK Digital board Williamson and Bob Stein will stand for contingency, including arrangements for complex roles.
election re-election at the 2017 Annual key personnel loss.
A programme has been This investment has helped the General Meeting AGM.
designed to provide succession and development of a strong pipeline of talent We are conscious of the value of having development insight to the Group within the Group.
a Board that is diverse in its make-up not Executive members which will continue to only in respect of gender but diversity in its run and be reviewed during 2017.
What are the Committees Q widest sense to include age, experience, forward looking priorities in ethnicity, geographical expertise and How does the Committee ensure 2017?
We have an efficient pipeline of talent We will continue to retain our focus AM continued our commitment to improving throughout the Group?
on succession planning and the representation of women on the Board In 2016, Aviva made significant developing our people, while ensuring that AM and in supporting women to advance into investment in talent development our Board and senior management team senior roles with 23% of the Board currently programmes, as part of our systematic remain diverse in the widest sense.
female, rising to 27% following the approach to creating legacy by improving conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
In terms diversity and strengthening the pipeline for Sir Adrian Montague CBE ofour senior management, 36% of senior roles.
The Committee has had Chair of the Nomination Committee ourGroup Executive is comprised of regular updates on the progress of the 8 March 2017 femalemembership.
I am confident we have the appropriate We launched our Executive and Future balance of skills and experience on the Leaders Programme and created detailed Board, but we will keep this under review succession and development plans based as the business and industry evolves.
on the assessment of potential.
We plan to extend this programme in 2017.
We also How do you deal with Board and launched our first Global Graduate Q executive succession planning?
This We use a number of measures to programme will build our long-term AM assess whether we have the right leadership capability, creating a high skills and experience on the Board, and the performing pipeline, to meet our future updated skills matrix will support this needs at director level.
In addition, in 2017 I plan to hold a Myself and the Group Chief Executive Nomination Committee meeting following officer Group CEO are active members of the Board strategy meeting to ensure the the FTSE 100 30% Club and are skills and experience in the Boardroom committed to improving diversity at senior andour succession plan for the Board levels.
In November 2016, we launched our remain aligned to the strategic direction female Accelerating Leadership from the ofthe Group.
Inside Out programme, to give In respect of executive directors, the participants the opportunity to build the Board focused and invested extensively skills and organisational awareness needed during the year on succession planning and to be successful in broader and more Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 90 NOMINATION COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND ALLOC ATION OF AGENDA TIME Evaluation and annual Succession planning and Board assessment 14% pipeline 53% 14 Reviews the results of the annual Board Monitors the development and succession and committee performance evaluation plans for senior executives and identies and undertakes an assessment of suitable talent for appointment to the Board.
, conicts of interest, time commitment, effectiveness and overall contribution.
53 Board composition and diversity 33% 33 Evaluates and monitors the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, taking into account the Companys risk prole and strategy.
Leads on searches for suitable Board members when appropriate.
AC TIVITIES DURING 2016 Evaluation and annual assessment Succession planning and Board pipeline ` Considered and recommended to the Board the election ` Continued to focus on succession planning arrangements at re-election of each continuing director ahead of their election both the Board and executive level, against a specication for re-election by shareholders at the AGM the role and capabilities required for the position and the composition of the Board ` Reviewed and made recommendations to the Board in respectof each directors actual, potential or perceived conicts ` Considered plans for succession for each Group Executive of interests member, including talent development below Group Executivelevel Board composition and diversity ` Reviewed the composition of the Board and in particular, whether the Board required additional skills and experience which would complement those of the existing members and the Companys risk prole and strategy ` Ensured that the Audit Committee has members with recent and relevant financial experience and who met US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC requirements during the year ` Engaged in a thorough search and interview process with the intention to strengthen the composition of the Board with additional NEDs.
The Committee identied and endorsed the appointments of Claudia Arney in February 2016 and Keith Williams in August 2016 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 91 Risk Committee report As Chair of the Risk Committee, I am transactions as part of due diligence pleased to present the Committees appraisals.
It also monitors changes to the report for the year ended prudential regulations applicable to the 31December 2016.
Group and how the Group responds to them, a significant activity due to our The Companys approach to risk and risk designation as a Global Systemically management together with the principal Important Insurer G-SII.
risks that face the Group are explained on Work is also undertaken with the pages 68 to 71.
Remuneration Committee to ensure risk 2016 has been a year of market management is properly considered in uncertainty with Brexit, the national setting remuneration policy.
The Group is well election in America and the start of elections across Europe, which will What has been the Committees equipped to Q continue in 2017.
The Committees agenda main focus in 2016?
has evolved in line with the external Brexit and the geopolitical risks more manage risk and MH environment to ensure the Group is well generally, the global economic equipped to manage risk and retain a retain a strong outlook, and the low interest rate strong capital and liquidity position.
environment, have been a major focus capital and Committee members are shown below during 2016.
The Committee assessed and and their experience, qualications and continues to monitor the impact of these liquidity position attendance at Committee meetings during on the Groups asset mix and investment 2016 are detailed on page 84, and return.
In light of these challenges focus Michael Hawker MH Risk Committee Chair directors biographies on page 76.
The continued on the Groups capital resilience, Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive balance sheet strength and liquidity, as officer, Chief Audit officer CAO, Chief well as concentrations of risk and Financial officer, Chief Risk officer CRO, from the Committee at the conclusion of diversication.
and additional attendees as appropriate, the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
I would Additionally, legislative change regularly attended Committee meetings by like to thank Scott and Bob for their continues within Financial Services, invitation to present reports.
particularly in relation to regulatory capital On 1 January 2017, we welcomed and the pensions and savings markets Claudia Arney to the Committee following What is the main function of the across Europe.
The strategic and Q Scott Wheways retirement on Committee?
Bob Stein will retire The Committee oversees all aspects these changes have also been an area of MH of risk management in the Group, focus for the Committee.
The Committee save for compliance, conduct and has monitored the implementation and reputational risk, responsibility for which usage of the new Solvency II SII partial COMMIT TEE MEMBERSHIP lay with the Governance Committee internal model and oversaw further during2016.
expansion of the internal model to three of Years Member on the The principal purpose of the the Groups subsidiaries.
The Committee since: Committee Committee is to assist the Board in its has continued to oversee developments in Michael Hawker 01 01 2010 7 oversight of risk within the Group, with the Groups internal reinsurance vehicle, 02 05 2012 4 particular focus on the Groups risk given its signicance in enabling the Glyn Barker appetite and risk prole in relation to fungibility and transferability of SII capital 26 06 2015 1 Beln Romana capital, liquidity and franchise value.
The impact of IT Garca Committee annually reviews the changes on the Group in terms of cost 12 09 2013 3 Michael Mire effectiveness of the Groups risk base, customer interaction and security, 06 03 2013 4 Bob Stein management framework and the including the cyber threat environment, 01 01 2017 1 Claudia Arney performance of the CRO and overall Risk was also looked at by the Committee.
It reviews the risks inherent in the The Committee has responsibility for Groups investment portfolios, and in the three Major Control Improvement Topics Chair Retired on 31 December 2016 products it offers our customers, in MCITs, Cyber Security, Outsourcing and Will retire from the conclusion of the 2017 addition to monitoring the Groups overall Disaster Recovery, as part of the MCIT Annual General Meeting operational risks.
The Committee assesses programme overseen by the Audit the risks of strategic and material Committee.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 92 business unit performance against the goal for the previous year.
This assessment considers how effectively business units have embedded the risk management framework, which includes promoting a risk aware culture, for example in rolling out the Groups Good Decisions initiative.
The assessment of risk culture includes an analysis of risk related questions and responses from the Group-wide employee survey, Voice of Aviva.
How is risk appropriately Q managed across the various ASSESSING THE IMPAC TS OF, committees?
AND PREPARING FOR, BREXIT The Committee acts independently MH of management and works closely In March 2016 the market reaction to a the Group and its with the Governance, Remuneration and Committee reviewed leave vote.
Following subsidiaries are Audit Committees.
There is crossa detailed analysis the referendum, the capitalised membership between each committee outlining the risks Committee assessed appropriately, and ensuring risk issues are appropriately that Brexit would management plans the regulated managed and considered in the decisions pose for the Group.
and the progress in structure limits any of each.
An update followed managing the operational impact.
During 2016, Glyn Barker and I were from management on operational impacts The Committee also members of the Audit Committee contingency plans to that would arise in continues to be address operational the event of a provided with regular Glyn as Chair, ensuring efficient and and financial market hard-Brexit, with updates from the complete coverage of the effectiveness of impacts in the event particular emphasis CRO, enabling it to the systems of internal control and risk of a leave vote.
This on the loss of monitor the potential management across both committees.
Attendance by Committee members to analysis of a mediumWhilst uncertainty subsidiary risk committee meetings is severe financial continues into 2017, encouraged, and during 2016 I attended an Aviva Investors audit committee meeting and a UK Life risk committee meeting, and both Glyn and I attended an Aviva Investors risk committee meeting.
What market challenges did the with the changing external environment, to I also speak with the chairs of each major Q Committee face during 2016?
deliver all planned risk reduction activities.
subsidiary risk committee and local CROs Following the referendum bond twice a year to maintain linkage to the MH yields fell to record lows and the How does the Committee matters considered at subsidiary level.
Q Committee discussed the strategic monitor the Companys adoption implications of the resulting financial of, and compliance with, SII?
What are the Committees Q market distortions and the appropriateness SII remains in focus as it moves to forward looking priorities MH of the Groups asset mix.
Towards the end business as usual, as we ensure that in2017?
of the year, these were also discussed in it is satisfying the governance requirements Focus will continue on plans in MH the context of the business plan.
Further, it with regards to the internal model and that preparation for Brexit as more considered how low interest rates have it feeds into the business strategy, planning information becomes known.
We expect impacted our exposure to other risks, and wider decisions.
The Committee also financial markets to remain volatile with namely credit, longevity, commercial reviewed and approved SII risk appetites, diverging monetary policy between the US mortgages and property price risks, both overarching and by risk type.
The and Europe, and further national elections revisiting the Groups risk appetites by type Committee receives regular updates on the in Europe.
The resilience of the Groups and counterparty credit limits.
Groups SII capital position against the balance sheet to market shocks, the projected risk appetite, on the resilience of Groups hedging strategy and contingency Cyber security was a key focus of the SII capital position through stress and plans, will continue to be reviewed.
Q the Committee during the year.
scenario testing, and contingent The Committee will also focus on How has it managed this risk?
management actions identied in the G-SII diversifying further the asset mix.
It will In the last few years there have been Group Recovery Plan.
manage the risks inherent in moving the MH a number of high prole cyber Company into the digital age and to a True security breaches at other UK corporates, How does the Committee assess Customer Composite, specically with Q so this has been an area of focus for the the risk culture in the regard to IT infrastructure, durability, and Committee, particularly given the organisation?
security, against an ever changing cyber importance of digital to our strategy.
We Since 2013, Aviva has set a common threat environment.
MH have received regular updates from the risk and control performance goal Chief Information officer on cyber security for all senior colleagues affecting their Michael Hawker risk, progress on the Cyber Security MCIT remuneration to help promote the right Chair of the Risk Committee and the contingency plans which seek to risk culture and behaviours in the business.
The Cyber Security MCIT aims to The Committee review and approve the improve the quality of controls, and ensure goal for the coming year and receive an these are embedded and continue to adapt assessment from the Risk function of Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 93 RISK COMMIT TEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND ALLOC ATION OF AGENDA TIME Risk Appetite, Risk Management, and Solvency II 13% Risk Reporting 17% Ensures that the Solvency II partial internal 13 Reviews and robustly assesses the design model meets required regulations, and 17 and effectiveness of the risk management reviews and approves Solvency II risk framework, and recommends updated risk appetites, to which it monitors the appetites to the Board.
It also ensures risk Solvency II capital position against.
management is considered when setting External Factors 28% the Companys remuneration policy.
Reviews the external risk environment, the 21 28 Group Capital and Liquidity, Financial impact of this on the Companys risk prole Plan, and Stress Testing 21% and assesses how risks are managed and Reviews and monitors the risks to, and mitigated.
arising from, the Companys strategy, 21 Regulatory, Governance and Internal business plan and major transactions and Audit 21% any impact on the Groups capital, and Reviews developments in the prudential liquidity position.
regulatory environment, the Groups external risk and capital disclosures, and assesses internal control.
AC TIVITIES DURING 2016 Risk Appetite, Risk Management and Risk Reporting External Factors ` Reviewed reports from the CRO which included updates on ` Reviewed regular updates on the performance of the Groups significant risks facing the Group, the Groups capital and investment portfolios and on the external economic liquidity position, the control environment, emerging risks and environment, and assessed the implications on the Groups risk prole, and operational, regulatory and conduct risk assetportfolio ` Approved the Groups risk policies for recommendation to ` Monitored the risk of cyber security, the progress against theBoard mitigating cyber risks, and reviewed the results of simulation cyber security attacks against the Group Group Capital and Liquidity, Financial Plan, and Stress ` Monitored the risk of Brexit ahead of, and after the European Testing Union referendum, regularly reviewed updates regarding the ` Approved the 2016 Group Capital and Liquidity Plan and potential impact on capital and liquidity, approved Brexit subsequent updates communications, and oversaw Brexit scenario planning ` Assessed and monitored the IT risk in respect of the Companys including, operational and contingency planning Digital First strategy Regulatory, Governance and Internal Audit ` Reviewed capital and liquidity projections including the Groups ` Monitored an internal audit review of the Groups outsourcing Shareholder cover ratio and liquidity cover ratio control framework ` Reviewed updates on credit risk, assessed scenarios to outline ` Reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control the Companys exposure and reviewed mitigating actions and risk management ` Approved the key principles for the 2016 G-SII Group Recovery ` Reviewed updates on the outsourcing, cyber security and Plan for managing its capital and liquidity in stress scenarios and disaster recovery MCITs, and monitored and challenged progress received updates on the Plan by management ` Oversaw the 2016 Group-wide Stress and Scenario ` Assessed the performance of all Group Business Units against testingexercise the 2016 Group risk and control goal ` Oversaw the Groups internal reinsurance mixer model ` Reviewed the adequacy and quality of the Risk Management ` Reviewed the Companys employee pension schemes function fundingposition ` Received quarterly reports from the CAO on internal audit which included progress on improving the control environment, Solvency II progress on MCITs, and the review of the Internal Audit function ` Undertook reviews of components of the key internal model, reviewed changes to the model, and reviewed independent ` Reviewed the results of the 2016 Committee effectiveness internal model validation reports and associated assurance review provided by the External Auditor ` Reviewed the Group Own Risk Solvency Assessment Supervisory ` Reviewed risk identication reports, ensured material Report and approved its submission quantiable risks were captured by the internal model, and that material non-quantiable risks were managed appropriately ` Approved the SII risk appetite ` Approved for recommendation to the Board updates to the SII Business Standards Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 94 Audit Committee report I am pleased to present the Audit judgements of management and the Committees report for the year ended methodology and assumptions used in 31 December 2016. relation to the Companys financial statements: assessing the adequacy and Accurate and informative financial effectiveness of internal controls and of the reporting, and an effective control Internal Audit function: and reviewing the environment are of critical importance to effectiveness, performance and objectivity the Board and our shareholders.
The of the External Auditor and of the external Committee continued to review the audit process.
It is also responsible for embedding of the Solvency II SII regime, establishing and overseeing the our control environment and the effectiveness of the Groups We have development and strengthening of the whistleblowing procedures.
internal control framework, including The Committee acts independently of successfully overseeing the Major Control Improvement management and works closely with the Topics MCITs on Cyber Security, Governance, Remuneration and Risk embedded Compliance Effectiveness, Data Committees.
There is cross-membership Governance, Disaster Recovery, Solvency II between each committee which provides a Outsourcing and Fraud Management.
The better understanding and more efficient reporting during MCIT programme is designed to focus communication of each committees work.
attention on enhancing our control the year environment around six key areas identied How does the Committee assess Q by management.
Glyn Barker GB Audit Committee Chair encourages the mobilisation of resources in The Committee annually undertakes GB a targeted way to deliver the desired a rigorous review of its effectiveness, control improvements.
Once the MCIT which for the 2016 year was conducted closure criteria have been attained these alongside the evaluations of the Board and control topics will be managed on a other committees by way of an internal business as usual basis.
questionnaire, completed by every In August 2016, we welcomed Keith the Committee at the conclusion of the Committee member.
Keith brings Annual General Meeting.
I will become The review highlighted that the extensive financial expertise including a Senior Independent Director at that date, Committees structure and delegation detailed knowledge of business planning and accordingly I will step down as from, and reporting to the Board, were all and capital projects.
Sir Malcolm Committee Chair following announcement appropriate.
Areas that were identied for Williamson and Bob Stein will retire from of the half year results, with Keith improvement were discussed with the becoming Chair.
I will remain a member of Committee and included the duplication of the Committee to maintain continuity of papers between the Committee, the Risk membership.
I am grateful to all members Committee, and the Board, and the need COMMIT TEE MEMBERSHIP of the Committee for their support in for clearer and more concise summaries in 2016.
The members of the Committee are papers.
The Committees workplan for shown in the table to the left and details of 2017 will address these areas.
Years their experience, qualications and Member on the attendance at Committee meetings during What significant issues has the since: Committee Q the year are shown earlier in the report on Committee considered in 08 08 2012 4 Glyn Barker pages 76 and 84. relation to the financial statements?
01 12 2013 3 Patricia Cross Committee time is divided between GB 01 09 2011 5 Michael Hawker What is the main function of the regular items relating to the Q 14 05 2015 1 Bob Stein Committee?
Companys financial statements, 14 05 2015 1 The Committees principal function is accounting policies, financial risks, internal Sir Malcolm GB Williamson to assist the Board in discharging its control matters and, internal and external 01 08 2016 1 responsibilities for monitoring the integrity audit issues.
Keith Williams of the Companys financial statements and The Committee is in addition Chair reviewing announcements relating to the responsible for assessing and Will retire from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting Companys financial performance: recommending to the Board that the reviewing the significant estimates and annual report and accounts, taken as a Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 95 SIGNIFIC ANT ISSUES Areas of focus Actions taken by the Committee Solvency II SII disclosures ` Following the introduction of SII, the Committee has reviewed the proposed approach to the SII reporting structure and approved the judgements and disclosure options.
Key issues and judgements ` Challenged estimates and judgements for International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and SII reporting bases.
IFRS judgements covered goodwill and intangible assets, restructuring provisions and reserving for insurance contracts, including the impact of Brexit on property growth assumptions and the valuation of unquoted investments.
SII judgements focused on the valuation of own funds and capital.
Friends Life integration ` Considered the impact on the internal control environment of the increased scale and complexity of the enlarged Group following the acquisition of Friends Life.
The Committee reviewed specic reports from Internal Audit to assess and monitor the effectiveness of integration planning.
UK Life and General ` Approved IFRS and SII key issues and judgements.
For the UK Life business the Committee assessed Insurance GI reserving the assumptions in respect of credit default, mortality, expenses and persistency.
GI reserving issues were based around best estimate reserves and the level of margin for uncertainty to be retained, in particular the increased reserves, following changes to the Ogden rate on bodily injury claims.
MCITs ` The Committee led the oversight of the overall progress of the MCIT programme, receiving regular reports from management, particularly on the Fraud MCIT, of which the Committee has ownership.
QRT submissions and SFCR ` Reviewed the development of the Group Solvency and Financial Condition Report SFCR and the RSR Regulatory Supervisory Report RSR that will be led for the first time by 1 July 2017.
The Committee also provided input to the development of Quantitative Reporting Templates QRT submitted to the regulator.
whole, are fair, balanced and How does the Committee COMMIT TEE OVERSIGHT Q understandable in line with the UK monitor the control environment OF SOLVENC Y II Corporate Governance Code the Code.
It is also responsible for reviewing and The Committee is responsible for GB We must comply with the new challenging the actions and judgements of supporting the Board in ensuring a SII reporting requirements for management in relation to the financial robust system of internal control.
the first time following their statements, including the accounting The Committee reviews quarterly implementation in January 2016. policies used and their consistent updates on the effectiveness of the We have met the new application.
The significant issues assessed Financial Reporting Control Framework requirements through a by the Committee during the year are set FRCF.
During 2016 this included updates coordinated approach across out in the table above.
on the progress to align financial reporting ourBoard committees.
The Risk controls processes within the heritageCommittee monitored the How does the Committee satisfy Friends Life businesses with the FRCF construction of the partial Q itself that its members meet the methodology.
In addition, it receives internal model, the Audit Committee focused on the new requirements of the Code, the regular reports on the status of the control reporting requirements of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency environment, reports on the Groups publically led SFCR and the Rules DTR and US requirements for MCITs, and updates on progress to embed privately led RSR.
the new approach to managing Committee provided oversight An annual exercise is undertaken to operational risks and controls under our GB to a series of tests on the assess how the Committees Integrated Assurance Implementation capability of our reporting members meet the expertise criteria of the programme IAI.
IAI embeds and aligns systems in preparation for the Code, the DTR, and US requirements.
ownership of risk management with first first live SFCR submission in 2017.
Following the review in respect of line management and claries risk SII introduces complex capital 2016, a recommendation was made to the ownership with the business while reporting requirements and the Board, which confirmed that I, as ensuring proper separation of disclosure of information that Committee Chair fullled each of the accountability from the second and third will be prepared and made requirements for relevant financial line functions.
public for the first time, and experience and competence in accounting The Committee also receives quarterly there is a challenge to make this and auditing as did Bob Stein, Sir Malcolm control reports from the Internal Audit disclosure useful and meaningful Williamson and Keith Williams.
Patricia function and reviews and challenges for users of the SFCR.
When Cross and Michael Hawker have confirmed management on the actions being taken making decisions, the Board they meet the Code requirement for recent to improve the quality of the overall control now has to consider the impact and relevant financial experience.
All environment and the control culture across of SII requirements and the Committee members, other than Patricia the Group.
combined work of the Board committees has helped to Cross, also met the US requirements to be The Committee reviews and approves ensure we are well prepared an audit committee financial expert.
The the bi-annual Internal Audit Plan and forthe new SII reporting Committee as a whole has competence conducts an annual review of the Internal obligations.
relevant to both the insurance and financial Audit function to assess its effectiveness services industry.
and to satisfy itself that the quality, experience and expertise of the Internal Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 96 Audit function is appropriate for the and Prudential Regulation Authoritys not be used: and iii other non-audit business.
This is carried out by reviewing whistleblowing services, in which to raise services where the Auditor may be used reports issued by Internal Audit and the concerns.
The Board will annually receive a which include non-recurring internal output of an annual stakeholder formal report in respect of whistleblowing controls and risk management reviews effectiveness survey.
This formal process is activity and compliance in line with excluding outsourcing of internal audit supplemented by regular private updated regulatory requirements.
work, advice on financial reporting and discussions with both executive Regular reports are also provided to regulatory matters, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals project management and the External Auditor.
The the Committee through the Groups Committee concluded that for 2016 the malpractice reporting service and the assurance and advice.
In 2016 the Group paid PwC 23.9 function was performing well and it Committee was satisfied that none of the continued to deliver an objective and reports received in 2016 made allegations million 2015: 19.3 million for audit and audit-related assurance services, with the independent service.
For the financial period under review, overall increase due to the fee for the auditof the Groups SII regulatory lings the Company met the relevant provisions How does the Committee satisfy Q of the Code relating to internal controls itself that the External Auditor now being part of audit related assuranceservices.
and the Financial Reporting Councils 2014 remains independent, effective and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal objective?
In addition, PwC were paid 9.4 million 2015: 15.2 million for other Control and Related Financial and  LLP PwC GB BusinessReporting.
was appointed as the Groups services, including 8.1 million 2015: 13.3 million for other assurance services, giving The Committee Chair is the External Auditor Auditor in 2012 whistleblowers champion for the Group following a formal tender process.
The a total fee to PwC of 33.3 million 2015: 34.5 million.
This included 7.7 million and has responsibility to oversee the external audit contract will be put out to integrity, independence and effectiveness tender at least every ten years.
relating to the SII internal model independent validation and SII balance of the Groups policies.
The Committee as The external audit is led by the PwC a whole is responsible for establishing and audit partner, Marcus Hine, who has held sheet assurance fees.
SII implementation is a major project requiring substantial model overseeing the effectiveness of controls the role for the Group for two years.
put in place in accordance with regulatory An annual review of the Auditor was validation assurance that the Company believes is most appropriately performed requirements in respect of whistleblowing.
undertaken through completion of a This involves ensuring that internal questionnaire by the Committee, senior by the prinicpal auditor.
In view of the signicance and scale of this work, the arrangements are in place within the management, and members of the Group for individuals, not just employees, Groups finance community.
Following Committee specically assessed the suitability of PwC to provide this service.
to raise concerns not just limited to review of output from questionnaires, the accounting, accounting controls and Committee concluded that PwC continued In line with the Standard, the Committee satisfied itself that for all auditing matters.
The Committee receives to perform effectively and is recommended assurance that all UK based employees are to shareholders for reappointment at the non-audit engagements, robust controls were in place through a quarterly review aware of the Financial Conduct Authority 2017 AGM.
The Company has complied with the process for audit related and non-audit services provided, to ensure that PwCs Statutory Audit Services for Large INTERNAL CONTROL Companies Market Investigation objectivity and independence were safeguarded, and concluded that it was Mandatory Uses of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee inthe interests of the Company to The Committee is responsible for purchase these services from PwC Responsibilities Order 2014 during the supporting the Board in ensuring financial year under review and up to the duetotheir specic expertise.
Further there is a robust system of internal detailsare provided in note 12 of the date of this report.
control and risk management in The Company has an External Auditor financial statements.
The system of internal Business Standard Standard in place controls and risk management is which is aimed at safeguarding and What are the Committees comprised of the following: Q supporting the independence and forward-looking priorities ` IAI to embed management of objectivity of the Auditor.
operational risk with First Line compliant with all UK and International In addition to carrying out its management GB Federation of Accountants rules and takes principal function the Committee ` bi-annual sign off by senior into account the Financial Reporting will continue to monitor the embedding of management conrming that Councils Revised Ethical Standard 2016 SII as the regime becomes more mature, they have tested the controls and the EU Audit Directive that became and will oversee the delivery of the MCITs within their business applicable to Aviva from 1 January 2017. and the development and embedding of responsibility and whether The Standard regulates the IAI.
theyhave operated effectively appointment of former audit employees to ` MCIT programme with senior finance positions in the Group and Glyn Barker significant progress made sets out the approach to be taken by the Chair of the Audit Committee during2016 on issues identied Group when using the non-audit services 8 March 2017 ` An Internal Audit function, of the Auditor.
thatis assessed annually The Standard distinguishes between i ` Risk management function and those services where an independent view adoption of the three lines of is required and services that should be defence Risk Management performed by the Auditor such as Framework statutory and non-statutory audit and ` the FRCF assurance work : ii prohibited services where the independence of the Auditor could be threatened and the Auditor must Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 97 AUDIT COMMIT TEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND ALLOC ATION OF AGENDA TIME Financial Statements and accounting Auditors plans and reports on the Groups policies 42% financial statements.
Assesses and reviews the significant issues and judgements of, and methodology and 24 Internal Audit 24% assumptions used by management in Approves and monitors the application relation to the Groups financial statements of the Internal Audit Charter and and formal announcements.
Business Standard, reviews control issues 42 identied by Internal Audit and assesses External Audit, auditor engagement the effectiveness of the Internal Audit 11 and policy 23% function.
Considers and recommends to the Board the appointment, reappointment, dismissal Internal Controls, including the or resignation of the External Auditor, financial reporting control framework 23 assesses their effectiveness, independence and financial reporting developments and objectivity, agrees their remuneration, 11% and monitors the application and Assesses the effectiveness of the Groups appropriateness of the External Auditor systems of internal control and risk Business Standard.
AC TIVITIES DURING 2016 Financial Statements and accounting policies Internal Audit ` Considered and continued to monitor the impact of the ` Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Charter and Business acquisition of the General Insurance GI business of the Royal Standard Bank of Canada, which completed on 1 July 2016, on the 2016 ` Assessed the performance of the Internal Audit function and half year and full year results concluded it was performing well, was sufciently resourced and ` Following assessment, recommended to the Board for approval had demonstrated continued improvement the SII First Opening Information Results ` Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Plan in July and ` Approved the IFRS and SII technical provisions within the 2016 November 2016 half and full year results ` Assessed the independence of the Chief Audit officer CAO ` Challenged and reviewed the reserve positions relating to the and concluded that this had been maintained and was satisfied UK Life and GI operations that his annual performance related bonus was unconnected to the Groups financial performance ` Reviewed and challenged the treatment and recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets ` Held private meetings with the CAO without management present to provide an appropriate forum for issues to be raised ` Reviewed the Chief Financial Ofcers reports which included the IFRS and SII key issues and judgements: changes to financial ` Reviewed reports from the CAO reporting disclosure requirements: and policies for materiality Internal controls, including financial reporting control and unadjusted differences framework and financial reporting developments ` Reviewed and challenged the going concern assumptions for ` Reviewed quarterly updates on the effectiveness of the FRCF 2016 and the principles underpinning the Longer Term Viability framework and rectification of controls Statement ` Oversaw the MCIT programme and monitored and challenged ` Reviewed the Group Risk Actuarys report on significant issues progress by management to address the Fraud Management related to technical provisions of SII and IFRS MCIT External Audit, auditor engagement and policy ` Reviewed the Internal Audit function report to ensure adequacy ` Reviewed the effectiveness of the External Auditor and was of the systems of internal control and risk management satisfied that the services it provided remained effective, ` Ensured an appropriate whilstleblowing framework to comply objective and t for purpose with the policy set out by the Financial Conduct Authority and ` Reviewed the External Auditors compliance with the Prudential Regulation Authority independence criteria set out in the Code ` Monitored compliance with the External Auditor Business Standard on a quarterly basis ` Refreshed the External Auditor Business Standard to reect new regulatory requirements ` Held private meetings with the External Auditor without management present to provide an appropriate forum for issues to be raised ` Reviewed reports from the External Auditor with regard to: the 2016 Audit Plan and progress against plan and reports on the audit of the 2016 half and full year results including key assumptions used and outcomes of the audit Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 98 Governance Committee report This is my first report to shareholders the customer experience will be a matter as Chair of the Governance Committee for the Board as a whole, with oversight of and I am pleased to report that during the customer policy and any associated 2016 the Committee continued to management actions being the focus on the oversight of conduct risk, responsibility of the Committee.
The Board customer outcomes and our subsidiary is confident that this gives the Committee governance framework.
the correct focus and, in line with our annual cycle, the Committees This year Keith Williams and I joined the responsibilities will be reviewed again Committee.
Scott Wheway, who had been in2017.
a director of Aviva plc since December Customers are at 2007, and Chair of the Governance The Committee has oversight for Q Committee since February 2014, retired the UKD business how does it the heart of from the Committee and the Aviva Board do this?
More recently we Digital First is a strategic priority of Avivas strategy CA announced that Sir Malcolm Williamson the Group, and the UKD business is would not seek re-election at the 2017 and the Committee crucial to achieving this ambition.
I am grateful to Committee has continued to take an has a central role all members of the Committee for their oversight role in supporting its support and contribution during 2016 but development and in monitoring the in ensuring that wish to express particular thanks to Sir customer and conduct risks of the Malcolm for his contribution and to Scott newbusiness.
they remain there for his dedication and excellent leadership The use of a Board committee in this of the Committee.
way enables the escalation of governance Claudia Arney CA Governance The members of the Committee are matters directly to the Group and provides CommitteeChair shown in the table below and details of speed and agility in decision-making members attendance at Committee andthe required oversight, in a fast meetings during the year are shown in the developing area.
table in the directors and corporate governance report on page 84.
As the new Chair of the Since the 2015 annual report and Q Q Committee, describe its role and accounts the Global Subsidiary how it has evolved since its creation.
Governance Principles the Principles The role of the Committee is to help have been rolled out.
How do you CA the Board drive consistency across think these have been received?
COMMIT TEE MEMBERSHIP the Aviva Group in respect of governance Feedback has been extremely CA and regulatory matters to ensure positive with constructive comments alignment with the Companys culture, received from directors and subsidiary Years values and strategic priorities.
The boards across the Group.
The Principles are Member on the Committee has traditionally overseen aligned to UK corporate governance since: Committee governance, conduct, reputation, financial standards, and therefore for some 01 06 2016 1 Claudia Arney crime and corporate responsibility matters jurisdictions these minimum requirements 26 06 2015 1 Beln Romana on behalf of the Board and has evolved to have meant raising the bar.
The roll out of Garca also have oversight of the conduct agenda the Principles has enhanced the Groups 12 09 2013 3 Michael Mire of the UK Digital UKD business.
The remit engagement with local boards and also 05 12 2007 9 Scott Wheway of the Committee is reviewed annually improved the level of consistency in 01 08 2016 1 Keith Williams given the constantly changing external practice across the organisation.
This is 14 05 2015 1 environment and recently the Committees reected in the Board evaluation process Sir Malcolm Williamson Terms of Reference were amended to conducted by subsidiaries across the reect the move of the people agenda to Group, the updated processes for Board Chair from 1 January 2017 Retired on 31 December 2016 the Nomination Committee.
In addition, appointments and the setting of executive Will retire from the conclusion of the 2017 given the importance of the customer remuneration.
The Principles were Annual General Meeting agenda this will be considered by both the refreshed at the beginning of 2017 and it is Committee and the Board going forward.
intended that they evolve over time within It is intended that the strategic direction of an established framework.
More Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 99 information about the work undertaken on Following the introduction of impact of combining the UK Life and Q the Principles can be found in the case Section 172 of the Companies General Insurance operations.
Act 2006, the duty to promote the The Committee will also continue to success of the Company, how does focus on the Groups conduct risk agenda, How has the Committees the Committee continue to shape and financial crime prevention processes, Q oversight of conduct risk been support the Groups wider corporate external regulatory developments and the exercised during the year?
relationship with various regulatory bodies, The oversight of conduct risk has The Committee was established in in particular the Financial Conduct CA CA remained a primary focus of the 2006 initially focused on corporate Authority FCA.
It will remain the first line Committee during 2016.
The Committee responsibility to support the Boards belief of oversight for conduct risk for the UKD receives a report from the Group that good governance and strong business and monitor the Groups CR Compliance Director at each meeting and responsible leadership is critical to creating agenda.
particular consideration was given during long-term shareholder value and business Customers are at the heart of Avivas the year to the rationale for the suspension success.
This continues to be the case and strategy and the Committee has a central of dealings in the Aviva Investors Property the Committee has played an important role in ensuring that they remain there.
The Committee has oversight for part in ensuring the robust oversight of the Compliance Effectiveness and Data governance across the Group.
Aviva has a Claudia Arney Governance Major Control Improvement responsibility to all its stakeholders and Chair of the Governance Committee Topics MCITs and where Business Units needs to play a positive role in society, 8 March 2017 BU have failed to achieve the necessary whilst addressing the rapid pace of change standards this has been reected in in technology and customer expectations.
remuneration decisions, as outlined in the The Committee has continued to support directors remuneration report.
the corporate responsibility CR agenda, The Groups BUs have an ongoing ensuring that it is reinforced throughout programme to continually reassess their the Group.
Further details can be found in conduct risk performance and conduct risk the Corporate Responsibility section of the framework and the Committee has Strategic Report and can be viewed at continued to actively review this.
2016 the chief executive ofcers from a number of BUs presented their detailed What are the Committees Q plans for conduct risk management to forward looking priorities in theCommittee.
In 2017 the Committee will focus CA even more strongly on our customers, ensuring that we treat customers fairly and that we focus on good customer outcomes.
The Committee will also give priority to enhancing the governance framework around the handling of customer data, and will have detailed oversight of the governance SUBSIDIARY GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES During 2016, the roll out of helped support adherence the Principles has been to the Principles progressed to provide a ` Communication between consistent framework for the Group and BUs has subsidiary governance.
been built upon, for Achievements have included: example the annual NEDs conference has been ` The completion of a global expanded to include all gap analysis against the NEDs in the Group and Principles.
This has helped provide a broader focus develop consistent ` The roll out of a suite of standards across the Group board committee templates ` Embedding procedures and training to BU report across the Group to assist writers to develop best with adherence to the practice in report writing Principles.
The use of across the Group technology including the on-going enhancement of the Group internal governance site and the development of a nonexecutive director NED Resource Centre have Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 100 GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND ALLOC ATION OF AGENDA TIME Customer and conduct risk 24% People - 5% Reviews the Groups risk prole and risk Approves the Business Ethics Code, reviews 5 management control framework as it the Groups policies on diversity and 24 relates to conduct, reputation and the employees and monitors talent Groups overall culture and values.
development programmes and the culture agenda.
This area has also been considered Corporate responsibility 4% 32 extensively by the Aviva Board.
Oversees and monitors the Groups CR 4 strategy, external developments and the Groups mandatory reporting requirements.
Regulatory and financial crime 32% Oversees the effectiveness of the Groups Governance 24% procedures and controls relating to the Monitors compliance with corporate 24 Groups conduct and financial crime agenda.
11 governance guidelines and promotes thePrinciples.
UK Digital 11% Provides governance and conduct oversight over UKD.
AC TIVITIES DURING 2016 Customer and conduct risk People ` Constructively challenged reports on conduct risk management ` Reviewed the progress of embedding Avivas values and the at each meeting to monitor compliance with regulatory standards wider cultural agenda ` Several BU chief executive ofcers attended meetings and ` Monitored the Groups diversity and inclusion strategy presented to assist the Committee in overseeing the embedding ` Reviewed and considered the talent development programmes of the conduct risk framework across the Group.
This included for leadership across the Group Aviva UK Life, UK General Insurance, UK Health, Aviva India, ` Approved the Business Ethics Code Aviva Asia, Aviva Ireland and Aviva Investors ` Received and considered reports detailing on-going and possible Regulatory and financial crime reputational, brand and franchise risks, including media and ` Regularly reviewed regulatory updates from the Group public policy issues Compliance Director ` significant focus was given to the customer agenda and ` Reviewed and constructively challenged managements view of regularupdates were received and progress monitored on emerging and potential financial crime risks and any actions customer metrics relating to sales, retention, claims experience required in response and complaints ` Monitored the Groups relationship and interaction with the FCA and other regulatory bodies and monitored the actions taken in Corporate responsibility respect of regulatory developments ` Continued to provide guidance and direction on the corporate ` Reviewed reports on the Groups financial crime prevention responsibility agenda and monitored compliance with the procedures and controls and any associated actions and the Groups CR strategy effectiveness of the anti-bribery controls ` Monitored external developments and monitored the Groups ` Monitored certain MCITs data governance and compliance mandatory reporting requirements effectiveness ` Received reports from management during the year on the Aviva ` Reviewed and challenged managements explanations and actions Community Fund and the Groups health and safety compliance in response to issues events.
For example, the suspension of ` Reviewed and approved the Aviva Investors Voting Policy and dealings in Aviva Investors Property Trusts Stewardship Statement ` Reviewed the Groups annual corporate responsibility reporting UK Digital and the Groups Corporate Responsibility, Environment and ` Received updates on UKD at each meeting and considered the Climate Change Business Standard conduct risk framework, the UKD licence application, its conduct and compliance strategy, data governance and security Governance ` Constructively challenged the UKD Board on matters in relation ` Considered regular updates from the Group Company Secretary to conduct, regulatory and financial crime risks and the risk on governance matters, legal and litigation risks which had the management control framework potential to impact the reputation of the Group ` Reviewed the Internal Audit Report on UKD ` Reviewed and where appropriate approved changes to the composition of the material subsidiary boards ` Monitored the roll out of the Principles and reviewed the output from the subsidiary board and committee effectiveness reviews ` Monitored the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and other areas of regulation and guidance Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 101 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The directors submit their annual report per ordinary share 2015: 14.05 pence Rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and and accounts for Aviva plc, together with Total ordinary dividend of 23.30 pence the consolidated financial statements of per ordinary share 2015: 20.80 pence, preference shares Rights and obligations together with the the Aviva group of companies, for the year Total cost of ordinary dividends paid in ended 31 December 2016.
2016 was 871 million 2015: powers of the Companys directors are set out in the Companys articles of association The directors report required under 635million the Companies Act 2006 comprises this the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House and the directors and corporate governance Subject to shareholder approval at the report: the directors remuneration report 2017 AGM, the final dividend for 2016 will Companys website at www.
com articles, or by writing to and the following disclosures in the become due and payable on 17 May 2017 strategic report: to all holders of ordinary shares on the the Group Company Secretary.
The powers of the Companys directors are subject to Register of Members at the close of Environment and climate change for business on 7 April 2017 payment date relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances including in relation to the disclosure of our greenhouse gas approximately five business days later for emissions holders of the Companys American issue or buying back by the Company of its shares, are subject to authority being Increasing diversity and inclusion for Depositary Shares ADS.
details of our policy on employment of Further details on the Companys given to the directors by shareholders in general meeting.
At the 2017 AGM, disabled persons dividend policy is set out on page 319 and Engaging with our people for details of details of any dividend waivers are shareholders will be asked to renew the directors authority to allot new securities.
employee involvement disclosed in note 32.
Likely future developments in the Details are contained in the Notice of 2017 Annual General Meeting Notice of AGM.
business of the Company Share class and listing All the Companys shares in issue are fully Restrictions on transfer of securities Details of significant post balance sheet paid up and the ordinary and preference events that have occurred subsequent to shares have a Premium and Standard listing With the exception of restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares under the 31 December 2016 are disclosed in notes respectively on the London Stock 3, 18, 40, 60 and 62.
On 1 December 2016, the Companys employee share incentive plans, Company announced that it had resolved whilst the shares are subject to the plan The management report required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule to voluntarily delist its ADS from the New rules, there are no restrictions on the York Stock Exchange and to terminate the voting rights attaching to the Companys 4.1.
5R comprises the strategic report, shareholder information which includes registration of its ADS and the underlying ordinary shares or the transfer of securities ordinary shares under the Securities in the Company.
the principal risks relating to our business, and details of material acquisitions and Exchange Act and to continue its ADS Where, under an employee share programme as a Level 1 sponsored incentive plan operated by the Company, disposals made by the Group during the year which are included in note 3.
This programme, which will enable investors to participants are the beneficial owners of trade ADS in the US over-the-counter shares but not the registered owners, the directors and corporate governance report fulls the requirements of the corporate market.
The last day of trading on the voting rights are normally exercised at the NYSE was 22 December 2016 and the discretion of the participants.
No person governance statement under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
Company expects the deregistration of its holds securities in the Company carrying ADS and the underlying ordinary shares to special rights with regard to control of the Our policy on hedging become effective on 22 March 2017.
The Company is not aware of Details of the Companys share capital and any agreements between holders of The hedging policy is disclosed in note 57 and details of likely future developments shares under option at 31 December 2016 securities that may result in restrictions on and shares issued during the year are given the transfer of securities or voting rights.
are set out in the strategic report.
in notes 30 to 33. significant agreements change Results The Groups results for the year are shown Share capital ofcontrol The issued ordinary share capital of the There are a number of agreements that in the consolidated income statement.
Company was increased by 13,074,033 take effect, alter or terminate upon a ordinary shares during the year which were change of control of the Company Related party transactions Related party transactions are disclosed in allotted to satisfy amounts under the following a takeover bid, such as Groups employee share and incentive commercial contracts and joint venture note 59 which is incorporated into this report by reference.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their potential 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM issued ordinary share capital totalled impact on the business of the Group as a 4,061,539,206 shares of 25 pence each whole.
All of the Companys employee Details are provided in the shareholder services section on page 354. issued preference share capital totalled share incentive plans contain provisions 200,000,000 shares of 1 each relating to a change of control.
Dividends Outstanding awards and options would Further details on the ordinary share normally vest and become exercisable on a Dividends for ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc are as follows: capital of the Company are shown in change of control, subject to the Note30.
satisfaction of any performance conditions Paid interim dividend of 7.42 pence per and pro-rata reduction as may be applicable under the rules of the employee ordinary share 2015: 6.75 pence Proposed final dividend of 15.88 pence share incentive plans.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued 102 Authority to purchase own shares The rules regarding the appointment and to make political donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are At the Companys 2016 AGM, removal of directors are contained in the shareholders renewed the Companys Companys Articles.
Under the Articles, the dened in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006, in each case in authorities to make market purchases of Board can appoint additional directors or up to 404 million ordinary shares, up to appoint a director to ll a casual vacancy.
amounts not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate.
As the authority granted will 100 million 8% preference shares and up The new director must retire at the first 3 to 100 million 8 8% preference shares.
AGM following their appointment and can expire at the 2017 AGM, renewal of this authority will be sought at this years AGM These authorities were not used during the only continue as a director if they are year or up to the date of this report.
At the elected by shareholders at the AGM.
up to a total aggregate limit of 100,000.
Further details are available in the Notice of 2017 AGM, shareholders will be asked to At no time during the year did any renew these authorities for another year director hold a material interest in any AGM.
It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to European Union EU and the resolution relating to ordinary contract of signicance with the Company shares will once again propose a maximum or any of its subsidiary undertakings other political organisations or to incur any other political expenditure.
However, denitions aggregate number of ordinary shares than an indemnity provision between each which the Company can purchase of less director and the Company and of political donations and political expenditure used in the Companies Act than 10% of the issued ordinary share employment contracts between each capital.
Details are contained in the Notice executive director and a Group company.
2006 are broad in nature and this authority is sought to ensure that any activities of AGM.
The Company held no treasury The Company has purchased and shares during the year or up to the date of maintained throughout the year directors undertaken throughout the Group, which could otherwise be construed to fall within this report.
and ofcers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and others.
The these provisions, can be undertaken without inadvertently infringing the rules.
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 Company has also executed deeds of DTR major shareholders indemnity for the benefit of each director Aviva did not make any political donations during 2016.
The table below shows the holdings of of the Company, and each person who major shareholders in the Companys was a director of the Company during the Disclosure of information to the issued ordinary share capital in accordance year, in respect of liabilities that may attach with the DTRs as at 31 December 2016 and to them in their capacity as directors of the auditor In accordance with section 418 of the 7 March 2017.
Company or of associated companies.
The Articles allow such indemnities to be Companies Act 2006, the directors in ofce at the date of approval of this report granted.
These indemnities were granted SHAREHOLDING at different times according to the law in confirm that, so far as they are each aware, INTEREST there is no relevant audit information of place at the time and where relevant are At 31 December At 7 March qualifying third-party indemnity provisions which the Companys External Auditor, 2016 2017  PwC, is as dened by section 234 of the Notified Nature of Notified Nature of Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities unaware and each director has taken all Shareholder holdings holding holdings holding reasonable steps that ought to have been were in force throughout the year and are BlackRock, Above Above 1 Inc 5% Indirect 5% Indirect currently in force.
Details of directors taken as a director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish remuneration, service contracts, employment contracts and interests in the that PwC is aware of that information.
1 Holding includes holdings of subsidiaries.
shares of the Company are set out in the Directors directors remuneration report.
Annual general meeting The 2017 AGM of the Company will be The directors as at the date of this report The Company has also granted are shown together with their biographical indemnities by way of a deed poll to the held on Wednesday, 10 May 2017 at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad details earlier in the report.
During the year directors of the Groups subsidiary and up to the date of this report, the companies, including former directors who Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11am.
The Notice of AGM convening following Board appointments, retired during the year and directors resignations and retirements occurred: appointed during the year, which is a the meeting describes the business to be conducted thereat.
Further details can be qualifying third party indemnity for the purposes of the applicable sections 309A found in the shareholder information APPOINTMENTS section of the Notice of AGM.
The deed poll indemnity was in force Director Position Effective Date Articles of association throughout the year and remains in force.
Unless expressly stated to the contrary in Claudia Arney Independent 08 02 2016 the Articles, the Companys Articles may Financial instruments Non-Executive Group companies use financial instruments only be amended by special resolution of Director the shareholders.
The Companys current Keith Williams Independent 01 08 2016 to manage certain types of risks, including Non-Executive those relating to credit, foreign currency articles were adopted on 29 April 2015.
Director exchange, cash ow, liquidity, interest rates, and equity and property prices.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together Details of the objectives and management RETIREMENT of these instruments are contained in the with the factors likely to affect its future RESIGNATION risk and capital management section, the development, performance and position shareholder information section and in are set out in the strategic report.
The Director Position Effective Date note 56 on risk management.
performance review includes the risk and Scott Wheway Independent 31 12 2016 capital management section.
In addition, Non-Executive Political donations the financial statements sections include Director At the 2016 AGM, shareholders passed a notes on the Groups borrowings note 49 : resolution, on a precautionary basis, to its contingent liabilities and other risk authorise the Company and its subsidiaries factors note 52 : its capital management Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Directors and corporate governance report continued 103 note 54 : management of its risks Fair, balanced and understandable judgements and accounting estimates To support the directors statement below state whether applicable IFRSs as including market, credit and liquidity risk note 56 : and derivative financial that the annual report and accounts, taken adopted by the EU and IFRSs issued by as a whole, is fair, balanced and IASB have been followed, subject to any instruments note 57.
The Group has considerable financial understandable, the Board considered the material departures disclosed and process followed to draft the annual report explained in the financial statements resources together with a diversied business model, with a spread of and accounts: prepare the financial statements on the each section of the annual report and going concern basis unless it is businesses and geographical reach.
The directors believe the Group is well placed accounts is prepared by a member of inappropriate to presume that the management with appropriate Company and the Group will continue to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors knowledge, seniority and experience.
Each preparer receives guidance on the The directors are responsible for keeping have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have requirement for content included in the adequate accounting records that are annual report and accounts to be fair, sufficient to show and explain the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of at balanced and understandable Companys transactions and disclose with the overall co-ordination of the reasonable accuracy at any time the least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For this reason, production of the annual report and financial position of the Company and the accounts is overseen by the Chief Group and enable them to ensure that the they continue to adopt, and to consider appropriate, the going concern basis in Accounting officer to ensure consistency financial statements and the directors across the document remuneration report comply with the preparing the financial statements.
an extensive verication process is Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the undertaken to ensure factual accuracy Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Longer-term viability statement It is fundamental to the Groups longercomprehensive reviews of drafts of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible annual report and accounts are for safeguarding the assets of the Group term strategy that the directors manage and monitor risk taking into account all key undertaken by members of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for Executive and, other members of senior the prevention and detection of fraud and risks the Group faces, including longer term insurance risks, so that it can continue management, and in relation to certain other irregularities.
parts of the report external legal advisers The directors are responsible for to meet its obligations to policyholders.
The Group is also subject to extensive and the External Auditor making, and continuing to make, the an advanced draft is considered and Companys annual report and accounts regulation and supervision including Solvency II from 1 January 2016, and as a reviewed by the Disclosure Committee available on the Companys website.
the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Legislation in the United Kingdom result of being designated a Global Systemically Important Insurer by the Committee prior to being considered by governing the preparation and the Board dissemination of financial statements may Financial Stability Board.
Against this background, the directors Board members receive drafts of the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
annual report and accounts for their The directors consider that the annual have assessed the prospects of the Group in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the review and input.
This includes the report and accounts, taken as a whole, is opportunity to discuss the drafts with fair, balanced and understandable and 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, with reference to the Groups current both management and the External provides the information necessary for Auditor, and challenging the disclosures shareholders to assess the Groups and the position and prospects, its strategy, risk appetite, and the potential impact of the where appropriate.
Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
principal risks and how these are managed as detailed on pages 68-71 of the strategic Directors responsibilities Each of the current directors, whose The directors are responsible for preparing names and functions are listed on pages report as well as note 56 of the IFRS financial statements.
the annual report and accounts, the 76 to 79 in the directors and corporate directors remuneration report and the governance report confirm that, to the The assessment of the Groups prospects by the directors covers the three financial statements in accordance with best of their knowledge: the Group applicable law and regulations.
financial statements, which have been years to 2019 and is underpinned by managements three year 2017-2019 Company law requires the directors to prepared in accordance with IFRSs as prepare financial statements for each adopted by the EU, give a true and fair business plan which includes projections of the Groups capital, liquidity and solvency.
Under that law the directors view of the assets, liabilities, financial have prepared the Group and parent position and profit of the Group: and the The Groups stress and scenario testing considers the Groups capacity to respond company financial statements in strategic report and the directors and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the corporate governance report in this annual to a series of relevant financial, insurance e. g. catastrophe or operational shocks EU.
In preparing these financial statements, report and accounts include a fair review the directors have also elected to comply of the development and performance of should future circumstances or events differ from the plan assumptions.
The with IFRSs, issued by the International the business and the position of the Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under Group, together with a description of the Group addresses the impacts of contingent management actions designed to maintain company law the directors must not principal risks and uncertainties that it approve the financial statements unless faces.
or restore key capital, liquidity and solvency metrics to within the Groups approved risk they are satisfied that they give a true and By order of the Board on appetites over the planning period.
fair view of the state of affairs of the 8March2017.
Based on this assessment, the directors Group and the Company and of the profit have a reasonable expectation that the or loss for that period.
In preparing these Group will be able to continue in operation financial statements, the directors are and meet its liabilities as they fall due over required to: the three year assessment period.
select suitable accounting policies and Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard then apply them consistently Group Chief Chief Financial officer make reasonable and prudent Executive officer Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
