Committee reports continued Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Membership of the Committee Role of the Committee The Audit and Risk Committee was during The principal responsibilities of the the year, and at the date of this report is, Audit and Risk Committee are to: made up entirely of independent Monitor the integrity of the full-year and Non-Executive Directors.
Committee half-year financial statements and any membership and attendance at its formal announcements relating to the meetings in the year are set out below.
Companys financial performance Unless otherwise stated, members were members throughout the year.
Make recommendations to the Board, Further details of the backgrounds and for it to put to the shareholders for their qualifications of the members of the approval in general meeting, in relation to Committee can be found on page 77. the appointment of the external auditor The Deputy General Counsel was Secretary to the Committee throughout Review and monitor at least once a year During the year, the the year.
He took on the role of Company the external auditors independence and Secretary on 1 April 2016. objectivity and the effectiveness of the Committee has continued audit process, taking into consideration to focus on providing The Board is satisfied that Ian Duncan, relevant UK professional and who has been Chairman of the  oversight and reassurance Committee since July 2011, has recent to the Board with regard and relevant financial experience and Develop and implement policy on the that the Committee complies with engagement of the external auditor to to the Companys Code provision C3.1.
Ian is a Chartered supply non-audit services, taking into riskmanagement.
He is currently Chairman account relevant ethical guidance of the Audit Committees of WANdisco regarding the provision of non-audit Ian Duncan plc and Bodycote plc and is a former services by the external audit firm Committee Chairman chairman of the Audit Committees of Keep under review the adequacy and Mouchel Group and Fiberweb PLC.
effectiveness of the Companys internal He is a former Finance Director of Royal financial controls and internal control Mail Holdings PLC and other former roles and risk management systems have included the position of Corporate Finance Director at British Nuclear Fuels Monitor and keep under review the and Chief Financial Officer and Senior effectiveness of the Companys internal Vice President at Westinghouse Electric audit service Company LLC in Pennsylvania, USA.
As Ian Duncan has been a Non-Executive Report to the Board, identifying any Director of the Company since November matters in respect of which it considers 2010, the Nominations Committee that action or improvement is needed, undertook a rigorous review of his and make recommendations as to the performance and commitment before steps to be taken extending his appointment for up to a furtherthree years to the AGM in 2019.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Companys website.
AND ATTENDANCE Ian Duncan Chairman 4 of 4 Sir David Omand 4 of 4 1 Kate Swann 2of 3 Anna Stewart 4 of 4 Jeff Randall 4 of 4 Myles Lee 4 of 4 2 Victoire fide Margerie 1 of 1 1.
Kate Swan retired from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2015.
Victoire fide Margerie joined the Board and the Committee on 1 February 2016.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 88 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Before drafts are submitted to the Who attends Committee meetings?
Activities undertaken by the Board, the Head of Investor Relations In addition to the members of the Committee during the year reviews the content of the Strategic Committee, the Committee, at its During the year to 31 March 2016 report to ensure consistency with discretion, usually invites the theCommittee met four times.
other financial statements made Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Theagenda for each meeting is set by the Group duringthe year.
Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance by theCommittee Chairman in Director, Group Company Secretary and conjunction with theCompany Secretary Audit plans General Counsel, and Group Financial and other members of the Committee as Internal and external audit plans for Controller to attend its meetings.
During the year ended 31 theyear.
Divisional Chief Executives each of whom March 2016, the Committee considered: Internal audit is a director and or Group Executive Audit re-tender process At each meeting, internal audit reports on Committee member are also, at the The Committee instigated the external findings from audit visits to business units, Committees discretion, usually invited audit re-tendering process, which is including follow-up reports on any to attend meetings.
The Committee is discussed more fully on page 91. matters identified in earlier reports as satisfied that having these invited requiring attention or improvement are attendees present does not influence Financial results considered.
The reports contain tracking or constrain the Committees discussions full-year and half-year financial information to enable the Committee or compromise the Committees statements and related easily to see the control performance of independence.
business units over time and how quickly that all Board Directors and Divisional reports and reviews from the any matters are addressed.
Chief Executives are directly aware of the external auditors.
Committees deliberations, how it goes Risk and Internal controls matters that required the exercise of a about the discharge of its responsibilities review of principal risks and significant element of management on behalf of the full Board and any areas internalcontrol processes and judgement see page 90. of concern or focus for the Committee.
advising the Board on the requirement It also assists the Committee by allowing regular detailed reports identifying for a statement from it that the Annual direct questioning of executives on areas of risk at business unit, Report and Accounts both for the year matters that the Committee thinks divisional and Group level, assessing to 31 March 2015 and for the year to need further challenge, clarification, and prioritising potential impact, 31 March 2016 are fair, balanced and explanation or justification.
Should a risk mitigation steps in place and the understandable and provide the situation arise where the presence of preand post-mitigation risk levels.
information necessary for shareholders any such attendee would be inappropriate divisional and Group reviews of the to assess the Companys position, or might compromise discussion the Group risk standard.
performance, business model and Committee would either not invite the strategy during the relevant period.
reviewing internal audit reports, attendee concerned or request that The Committee satisfies itself that this whichas a matter of course look theynot attend the relevant part of is so by circulating to Board members ataccounting, anti-bribery and themeeting.
draft wording at an early stage with corruption controls, business continuity, The Group Risk Manager attended sufficient time and detailed content to contract performance and contract Committee meetings for its discussion allow for an assessment of the content bidding risks.
ofGroup risk reports and related items.
against the reports and accounts focused reviews of selected major risk During the year to 31 March 2016, provided to the Board and its areas: insurance strategy: business Ernst & Young LLP provided internal discussions throughout the relevant critical suppliers: Treasury risk: audit services to the Company and period.
In addition, the Committee contractperformance.
 LLP was the asks the Group Financial Controller Groups external auditor.
Both auditors to prepare a formal written report for attended the Committees meetings the Committee reviewing the relevant during the year to 31 March 2016. draft, its consistency with his TheCommittee Chairman also met knowledge and understanding of  LLP and Ernst & matters and the appropriateness of Young LLP in the absence of executive the weighting given to them, in each management.
The auditors are also case to allow for their review and invited to address the Committee without consideration by the Committee executives present at least once a year.
with all Directors and Divisional Chief Executives present in the context of The Committees terms of reference their own understanding of reports and were reviewed during the year to ensure accounts provided to the Board and its that they are in line with best discussions throughout the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 89 Committee reports continued Fraud Significant issues considered Internal controls and Reports covering any suspected incidents by the Committee in relation to risk management of fraud, their investigation and any the financial statements The Committee believes that the remedial or preventive action.
identification, control, mitigation and We are required to provide an reporting of risk is central to the delivery explanationof the significant issues that Whistleblowing of the Companys strategy.
This is the first the Committee considered in relation to The Committee is responsible for year that the new provisions set out in the the financial statements for the year to monitoring the Group whistleblowing 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 31March 2016 and how these issues policy and receives regular reports of have applied to the Companys Annual were addressed, having regard to calls and emails to the Groups external Report and Accounts.
The way that the matterscommunicated to the independent whistleblowing services Company manages risk is set out in the Committeeby the auditors.
and how these have been investigated Strategic report on pages64 to 66, and concluded.
The total number of In planning the year-end audit, with the principal risks facing the whistleblowing reports in the year to theCommittee considered with Group set out on page67 to page 74.
31 March 2016 was60 2015: 72. management and the Companys The Committee has conducted a For further explanation of the auditorsthe key areas of focus for the rigorous and robust review of the whistleblowing procedure audit having in mind their significance ongoing effectiveness of the Companys please see page 66. tothe Groups reporting of results and risk management processes in light of the degree of judgement involved in Audit non-audit fees and auditor the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code their evaluation.
The significant issues independence and the Financial Reporting Councils considered in relation to the financial Audit and non-audit fees for the external associated Guidance on Risk statements for the year ended 31 March and internal auditors were reviewed by Management, Internal Control and 2016 and how the Committee addressed the Committee and considered as to their Related Financial and Business Reporting.
them are set out in the table below: effect on auditor independence.
A statement regarding the effectiveness of the internal controls and control processes, including those over financial reporting, can be found on page 134.
Significant Issue How the Committee addressed it Contract accounting and The Committee considered the material revenue recognition contracts that require a significant degree of management judgement that could materially affect the appropriate accounting treatment for them: these were the subject of discussion and challenge with management to ensure that the Committee was satisfied as to the reasonableness of those judgements.
Pensions accounting the choice The Committee assessed the particular assumptions of assumptions in the valuation for proposed to be used by management and their accounting purposes of the impact on scheme assets and liabilities in the liabilities of the Groups defined context of assumptions being used in respect benefit schemes of the same factors by other companies and the pensions industry more widely.
See note 25 on pages 177 to 181. Business acquisitions Although no business acquisitions were made in the goodwill impairment assessment year to 31 March 2016, the Committee reviewed and challenged managements assessment of the goodwill balance by considering, amongst other things, managements evaluation of cash flow forecasts, budget, and growth rates.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 90 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Internal audit than 2017, following which the Group auditor would not include the design or would adopt a policy of putting the operation of financial information systems, The Committee considers that it is still external audit out to tender at least every internal audit services, maintenance appropriate to have an internal audit ten years.
The Committeestarted the or preparation of accounting records service provided by an external adviser, tendering process in December 2015 and or financial statements that would be but keeps this under review.
In the year four firms PwC, Deloitte, KPMG and Ernst subject to external audit or work that to31 March 2016, the Committee & Young were asked to submit proposals the Committee considers as reasonably wassatisfied with the service provided against a detailed invitation to tender.
capable of compromising their by Ernst & Young LLP acting as In the course of preparing their proposals, independence as auditors.
If use of internal auditor.
each firm was given access to members of the auditors for non-audit work would External audit and the re-tender the Groups senior management and a lead to non-audit fees payable to them of external audit data room.
Whilst the Committee was in the year exceeding 20% of their audit The Committee manages the relationship impressed by the commitment shown by fee, the Committee Chairmans approval is with the external auditor on behalf of all the participating firms and the quality required.
In addition, any fee for non-audit theBoard and monitors the auditors of their submissions, the Committee work in excess of 100k must be independence and objectivity along with considered that PwCs submission and approvedby the Committee Chairman.
the effectiveness of the external audit team were the strongest and decided to Having considered the non-audit services onan annual basis.
Audit fees are recommend to the Board that PwC be providedby the auditor during the year re-evaluated periodically.
re-appointed as the Companys auditor.
ended 31 March 2016, the Committee In addition, the Committee believes is satisfied that these services were For the year to 31 March 2016, thatPwC, with its deep knowledge provided effectively and did not prejudice  PwC has of the Company both in the UK and the objectivity or independence of been the Groups external auditors.
internationally, supported by its theauditor.
The Chairman and the Committee international network, is best placed to regularly assesses PwCs effectiveness For the year ended 31 March 2016, work with the Company as its auditor as in the provision of audit services in their the Committee has approved the the Company looks to expand into new meetings with PwC, and after each annual payment to PwC of fees of 2.2 million markets and geographies, as well as audit there is a rigorous review of PwCs for audit services, fees of 0.1 million for continuing with the phased roll-out of its audit services in that audit examining the audit-related services in respect ofa new group-wide Enterprise Resource level and consistency of qualification, pre-implementation review of the Planning application.
The Board endorsed expertise and resources, the effectiveness Group enterprise and resource planning the Committees recommendation and of the audit including, inter alia, the application and of fees of 0.3 million shareholders will be asked to approve the understanding of our business and for non-audit related work, including re-appointment of PwC at the AGM of the reporting processes for subsidiary audit work in connection with corporate Company on 21 July 2016.
The Company teams, independence and leadership.
Non-audit related work expects to tender the external audit The review includes the provision to PwC, accounted for 12% of the total audit and function in five years and PwC will not and discussion with it, of detailed non-audit related fees paid to the external be invited to participate in that tender.
feedback from those exposed to the audit auditor during the year.
A breakdown of process within the Group.
The question of fees paid to the auditor is set out in note Non-audit fees PwCs continuing independence in the 5 on page 157.
The Committee regularly considers the provision of audit services is considered engagement of, and level of fees payable Ian Duncan and discussed with PwC including the to, the auditors for non-audit work, Committee Chairman basis upon which that assessment can considering potential conflicts and the reasonably be made and supported.
24 May 2016 possibility of actual or perceived threats to their independence.
The Companys policy The Committee confirms that the Group is is to consider whether to place material in compliance with The Statutory Audit non-audit services work with external Services for Large Companies Market auditors on a case-by-case basis based on Investigation Mandatory use of an assessment of who is best placed to do Competitive Tender Processes and Audit the work having regard to the availability, Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. resources, capability, experience and any PwC has been the external auditor of the conflicts of interest of potential candidate Group since 2002 without a re-tender in firms for the work, and to make the choice that time.
In the Companys Annual based on what is considered to be in the Report and Accounts for the years ending Companys best interest overall having 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015, the regard to potential independence issues if Committee disclosed its intention to the work is placed with the Companys embark on a re-tendering process no later auditors.
Non-audit services offered to the Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 91
