Governance statement continued Report of the Nominations Committee Membership of the Committee The Company ensures that the Board has The Nominations Committee is chaired an up-to-date perspective on the views by the Chairman of the Company and and opinions of shareholders and the its other members are the Companys investment market.
An investor relations Non-Executive Directors all of whom report summarising share price are independent.
The Committee performance compared to market, sometimesinvites Executive Directors changes to the shareholder register and toattend meetings of the Committee, feedback from shareholders is produced ifappropriate.
The current membership for each Board meeting.
Once again, ofthe Committee, and its membership theCompany also commissioned during the year to 31 March 2016 as Clare Williams Associates to undertake wellas attendance at Committee a MarketPerception Review to provide meetings during the year, is shown below.
an independent evaluation of investor Unless otherwise stated, the member attitudes towards the Group which this wasa member throughout the year.
year involved 12 investors, including some The changes to the Board, Noindividual participates in discussion or of the Companys major shareholders, Ibelieve, demonstrate decision-making when the matter under accounting for around 36% of the consideration relates to him or her.
shareholder register, as well as some theimportance that TheCompany Secretary is Secretary underweight or non-holding institutions.
weplace on effective tothe Committee.
The results were formally presented to the Board in July 2015. succession management.
In addition to its formal meetings, members of the Committee also met Annual General Meeting Mike Turner CBE together informally to discuss senior The 2016 AGM will be held at 11am Committee Chairman executive succession planning.
onThursday, 21 July 2016 at the Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane, Matters within the Committees remit London, W1K 7TN.
The Company will arealso sometimes taken as specific sendnotice of the AGM and any related items at full Board meetings, principally papers at least 20 working days prior to consideration of succession planning the date of the meeting in accordance more widely within the Group and with best practice standards.
The event provides a platform for the Chairman andChief Executive to explain how the Company has progressed during the year.
It also provides all shareholders with the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairmen ofthe Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, and the Senior Independent Director.
At these meetings a poll is conducted on each COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP resolution: shareholders also have the AND ATTENDANCE opportunity to cast their votes by proxy, Mike Turner Chairman 4 of 4 either electronically or by post.
Directors Ian Duncan 4 of 4 also make themselves available before Sir David Omand 4 of 4 and after the AGM to talk informally to 1 Kate Swann 3 of 3 shareholders.
Following each AGM the results of the polls are published on the Anna Stewart 4 of 4 Companys website and released to the Jeff Randall 4 of 4 London Stock Exchange.
Myles Lee 4 of 4 2 Victoire fide Margerie N A 1.
Kate Swann retired from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2015.
Victoire fide Margerie joined the Board and the Committee on 1 February 2016.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 86 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Responsibilities of the Committee The Board is clear that it wants to see an Oversaw the process for finding and increasing number of women in senior The Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment of a executive management roles and  to the Board, new independent Non-Executive Director, throughout the workforce as a whole, within its agreed terms of reference, Victoire fide Margerie effective 1 February However, we believe that diversity should onappointments to the Board.
The terms 2016, following the retirement of not be about firm quotas or solely a of reference of the Committee are Kate Swann on 31 December 2015. gender debate and that instead we available on the Companys website.
Considered and recommended the The Committee also assists the For this reason the Board has chosen extension of the term of appointment as Boardin discharging its responsibilities not to set any measurable objectives Non-Executive Director of Ian Duncan for inrespect of: but willcontinue to maintain its practice up to a further three years, his having Regularly reviewing and evaluating the of embracing diversity in all its forms already served two three-year terms.
size, structure and composition including whencompiling a shortlist of suitable Succession planning for the Chief the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge candidates and recommending any future Executive role and consequential and experience of the Board and making Board appointments.
Further insight executive moves had been in hand recommendations to the Board with intothe work being done to fosterfemale overanumber of years and involved regards to any changes participation in the industries in which consideration of both potential internal we operate is provided in the Strategic and external candidates and was run Considering succession planning for report on page 61. in consultation with Spencer Stuart.
Directors and other senior executives, Activities undertaken by the Spencer Stuart does not have any taking into account the challenges and connection with the Group other than Committee during the year opportunities facing the Company and as a senior recruitment consultant.
the skills and expertise needed on the During the year ended 31 March 2016, Board in the future the Committee: In the search for a new non-executive director the Committee set the candidate Reviewing the leadership needs of the Implemented succession plans formulated specification and reviewed a number of Group, both Executive and Non-Executive, by the Committee in the light of the potential candidates using the services with a view to ensuring the continued retirements of Peter Rogers and Kevin and advice of Korn Ferry as search ability of the Group to compete Thomas, which included: consultants.
Korn Ferry does not have effectively in the marketplace any connection with the Group other the appointment of Archie Bethel than as a senior recruitment consultant.
formerly Chief Executive, Marineand Identifying and making recommendations Technology as Chief Operating for the approval of the Board regarding Mike Turner CBE Officereffective 1 April 2016 and candidates to fill Board vacancies and Committee Chairman asGroupChief Executive effective reviewing the time required from 24 May 2016 1September2016: Non-Executive Directors for the the move of John Davies from performance of their duties to ChiefExecutive, Defenceand theCompany Securityto become Chief Executive, When considering recommendations on Support Services: appointment to the Board the Committee the promotion of Roger Hardy to has in mind the strategic plans and the Divisional Chief Executive, Defence development of the business in both and Security: and existing and new market sectors and with new, and new types of, customers, both the promotion of John Howie to in the UK and internationally, and the Divisional Chief Executive, need to maintain the Boards credibility in MarineandTechnology.
The Committee also takes into account as part of its deliberations the Boards aspiration and intent to fosterand encourage greater diversity of gender, outlook, background, perception and experience at Board level.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 87
