Governance statement Maintaining high standards At Babcock we believe that good governance, transparency and sensible risk management are crucial to the long term success of the Company.
Before that, in September 2015, Dear Shareholder the Company announced the retirement I believe that the Board should be made of Kevin Thomas with effect from 31 March up of a diverse range of backgrounds, 2016.
Kevin stepped down from the Board experience and skills.
Kevins role as Committee has worked steadily to ensure Chief Executive, Support Services division that the Board is appropriately balanced was taken over by John Davies with effect and experienced for developing and from 1 November 2015.
Prior to that, implementing the Companys near-term John had been Chief Executive, and longer-term business strategy and Defenceand Security.
Roger Hardy, that all its members have a good who had been Managing Director of understanding of its operations.
Both Roger Hardy and John Howie are now In the period under review there were a members of the Companys Executive number of significant developments Committee and, though not currently relating to the Board.
In January 2016, directors, attend meetings of the Peter Rogers announced that he would be Board by invitation.
retiring as Chief Executive on 31 August 2016.
Peter will be succeeded by Archie There were also developments Bethel, who has been an integral part of amongstthe Non-Executive Directors Peters senior management team as Chief onthe Board.
In October 2015, Executive of the Marineand Technology theCompany announced that Kate Swann division and has been Chief Operating would be retiring on 31 December 2015 Officer since 1 April 2016.
Archie was due to increasing travel commitments in succeeded as Chief Executive of the her role as Chief Executive Officer of SSL Marineand Technology division by Group PLC.
I would like to thank Kate for John Howie, who had been Managing her valuable contribution over the last Director of Naval Marine.
five years to the work of the Board and its Committees.
In December 2015, the Company was pleased to announce that Prof. Victoire fide Margerie would be joining the Board on 1 February 2016.
Victoire has extensive experience as a non-executive director in a number of UK and other European publicly quoted companies and in her earlier executive career held senior management positions in several leading industrial businesses in France, Germany and the USA.
Victoires background, experience and outlook will, I believe, prove invaluable to Babcockscontinued development, particularly internationally.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 78 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Babcock governance structure Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Chief Group Finance Committee Committee Committee Executive Director See page 88 See page 92 See page 86 See pages 76 and 83 See page 76 Diversity Steering Corporate Safety Executive International Group Security Group Finance Group Steering Group Committee Committee Committee Committee See page 61 See page 84 See page 84 See page 65 See page 82 table below shows that, following the I believe that the developments that we Governance Code purposes and have retirement of Kate Swann and the recent have seen over the year under review show the necessary time to devote to their appointments mentioned above, we have the importance placed by the Board and duties.
We, therefore, recommend to a Board of Non-Executives that is clearly the Company as a whole on succession shareholders that they reappoint each being renewed and enjoys the benefit of planning, making sure that the senior of our Non-Executive Directors at the a range of periods in office.
management team has the strength in forthcoming Annual General Meeting depth so that excellent candidates are in July.
In this regard, we have, after ready throughout the business to step up consideration, extended for a further as and when opportunities present three-year term, subject to annual re-election, the current expected term of themselves, whilst ensuring that the appointment of Ian Duncan.
Ian has been culture and deep understanding of a Director since November 2010.
We are Babcock are maintained.
conscious that, before extending the Mike Turner CBE To review our progress on the composition appointment of any Non-Executive Chairman and operation of our Board, the Board Director in office over six years, they undertakes an annual Board, Committee 24May 2016 should be subject to a particularly and Director evaluation exercise.
As was rigorous review of their performance the case last year, it was carried out and commitment that should take into internally.
There were no significant account the need for progressive concerns highlighted.
A summary of the refreshing of the Board.
This we have review can be found on page 84.
We are done at a Nominations Committee addressing and will continue to address meeting.
We are satisfied as to both Ians the matters identified as areas for focus.
continuing independence and the Finally, we are satisfied as a Board ongoing value of having him serve as that all our Non-Executive Directors our Chairman of the Audit Committee.
are independent for UK Corporate As to the refreshing of the Board, the Non-Executive Period in office to date Sir David Omand 7 years, 1 month Ian Duncan 5 years, 6 months Anna Stewart 3 years, 6 months Jeff Randall 2 years, 1 month Myles Lee 1 year, 1 month Victoire fide Margerie 3 months Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 79 Governance statement continued Governance Code How the Company has applied the principles Compliance Statement of the Code The Company is required to report on how in the year under review it has Leadership applied theUK Corporate Governance The Board, led by the Chairman, sets the strategic direction for the Company, Code published in September 2014 providing leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which the Code.
TheCode contains broad enable risk to be assessed and managed.
This section details the composition principles and specific provisions which of the Board and its committees, how responsibilities are divided and the key set out standards ofgood governance areas of focus for the Board during the year.
practice inrelation to leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, Effectiveness accountability and relations withshareholders.
The Board and its committees review their skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable the discharge of their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board considers that the This section provides details on the 2016 Board evaluation process, including the Companycomplied with all the progress made since the 2015 Board evaluation, and sets out the induction process provisionsof the Code throughout for new Directors.
The Report of the Nomination Committee pages86 to 87 theyear to 31 March 2016. expands on the process for board appointments including diversity policy.
The required governance and regulatory assurances are provided throughout this Accountability Directors report and in some cases in other parts of the Annual Report.
The Board believes that it has presented a fair, balanced and understandable The Other Disclosures section on page assessment of the Companys position and prospects throughout this Annual Report 129 provides further cross references to principally acting through the Audit and Risk Committee which reviews the where in this Annual Report disclosures effectiveness of the risk management systems and internal controls in place.
under the Code and also the Disclosure Principal risks and management controls are described in the Strategic Report and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules pages64 to 74 where the Board also make its viability statement and internal can be found.
controls and risk management are further discussed in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee pages88 to 91.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has principal responsibility for determining and agreeing with the Board the overall remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 128 details the Companys Remuneration Policy.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining open dialogue with its shareholders.
Throughout the year the Company undertook a wide variety of presentations, meetings and roadshows.
This section pages85 to 86 outlines how the Board has communicated with shareholders and how the shareholders can engage with the Company.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 80 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 MEETINGS Leadership Chairman Board of Directors Mike Turner 12 of 12 The Board of Directors of Babcock Executive Directors International Group PLC the Board is Peter Rogers 12 of 12 collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of Franco Martinelli 12 of 12 1 the Company.
This responsibility includes Kevin Thomas 7 of 9 matters of strategy, performance, Archie Bethel 12 of 12 resources, standards of conduct and John Davies 12 of 12 accountability.
The Board also has Bill Tame 12 of 12 ultimate responsibility for corporate Non-Executive Directors governance which it discharges either directly or through its Committees Sir David Omand 12 of 12 andthe structures described in this Ian Duncan 12 of 12 Governance report.
2 Kate Swann 8 of 9 The current Directors biographies are Anna Stewart 12 of 12 set out on pages76 and 77.
The Board Jeff Randall 12 of 12 is satisfied that each Director has the Myles Lee 12 of 12 necessary time to devote to the effective 3 Victoire fide Margerie 1 of 2 discharge of their responsibilities and that between them the Directors have a 1.
Kevin Thomas retired from the Board on 31 December 2015 and was unavailable to attend on blend of skills, experience, knowledge and two occasions due to illness.
independence suited to the Companys 2.
Kate Swann retired from the Board on 31 December 2015 and was unavailable for one meeting needs and its continuing development.
due to a pre-existing work commitment.
Victoire fide Margerie joined the Board on 1 February 2016, but was unavailable for one meeting The powers of the Directors are set out due to a pre-existing personal commitment.
in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which may be amended by way Composition of the Board of a special resolution of the members of The composition of the Board during the year, and as it currently stands, the Company.
The Board may exercise all is shownbelow: powers conferred on it by the Articles and Independent in accordance with the Companies Act Executive Non-Executive 2006, and other applicable legislation.
Chairman Directors Directors The Articles are available for inspection Date online at www.
com 1 April 2015 31 December 2015 1 6 6 and can also be seen at the Companys registered office.
1 January 2016 31 January 2016 1 5 5 1 February 2016 31 March 2016 1 5 6 Board meeting attendance The Board has at least ten scheduled Since 1 April 2016 1 5 6 full Board meetings each financial year The Chairman in his letter on pages 78 to 79 talks further about the composition and and two other meetings devoted solely development of the Board.
The Chairman also meets separately with Non-Executive Directors During the financial year and up to the date of this report the following changes were without Executive Directors or other made to the Board.
managers present from time to time Date of Appointment and did so, off-site, on at least two New Directors occasions in the year to 31 March 2016.
Myles Lee Non-Executive 1 April 2015 Debate and discussion at Board and Victoire fide Margerie Non-Executive 1 February 2016 Committee meetings is encouraged to be open, challenging and constructive.
Date of Retirement Directors regularly receive presentations Retired Directors by functional and senior managers.
Kevin Thomas Executive 31 December 2015 In the annual Board and Committee evaluation review, no Directors expressed Kate Swann Non-Executive 31 December 2015 dissatisfaction with the timing or quality of information provided to them.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 81 Governance statement continued Board matters and delegation KEY AREAS OF FOCUS DURING THE YEAR The Board has established a formal During the year key areas focused on by the Board included: schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
It has delegated other specific responsibilities to its Committees Strategy and business development Risk and these are clearly defined within their Group strategy with particular Review either by itself and or through terms of reference.
reference to the Groups international the Audit and Risk Committee of the SUMMARY OF KEY BOARD RESERVED MATTERS development, which included two Companys principal risks to special Board meetings dedicated determine the nature and extent of Group strategy and resourcing to strategy the risks the Company is willing to Interim and final results take and to review the management Business unit strategy updates announcementsand the annual of those risks, including internal and presentations reportand financial statements controls and risk management Financial planning, including budgets Assessment of viability as well as and dividend policy Dividend policy considering principal risks to the Business development opportunities Groups solvency and viability Acquisitions, disposals and other and pipeline review transactions outside delegated limits Succession planning and The implementation of a new talentdevelopment Enterprise Resource Planning ERP Significant contracts not in the ordinary Consideration of the implications of application course of business political developments and outlook Succession planning Cyber-security and information Major changes to the Groups assurance risk management management or control structure Legal updates and litigation reports Changes relating to the Companys Insurance strategy capital structure or status as a listed PLC Annual budgets Shareholder relations Governance Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Review of Board, Committee Major capital expenditure half-year results and Director effectiveness Major changes in governance, Annual General Meeting Health and safety accounting, tax or treasury policies managementreports and annual Independent investor relations surveys and half-yearly reviews and feedback reports Internal controls and risk management Annual anti-bribery and corruption Monthly investor relations and systems advised by the Audit and and risk management update shareholder engagement reports RiskCommittee Review of terms of reference of Review of analyst reports Board Committees Major press releases and shareholdercirculars Monthly management reports Tax affairs Board Committee terms of reference and Review of delegated authorities other delegated authorities are formalised and reviewed from time to time, usually Potential conflicts of interest at least once a year.
Key Committee terms of Directors of reference are available to view on our Consideration of revisions to website: www.
the Governance Code In addition to the principal Committees of the Board the Remuneration Committee, the Audit and Risk formal steps for matters approved in guarantees, treasury and related Committee and the Nominations principle by the Board, to be dealt with by matters within its terms of reference.
Committee each of which has its own a Board meeting of any two Directors, but The Company has, as described on report in the pages that follow the these are later ratified by the full Board.
page 84, an Executive Committee Board from time to time establishes and an International Committee, There is also a Group Finance Committee committees to deal with specific matters though neithercommittee is a formal consisting of any two Directors, one of on its behalf.
The Board also allows for Board Committee with its own whom must be the Group Finance routine matters, or the implementation of delegated powers.
Director, to approve borrowing, Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 82 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 The Chairman and Chief Executive The Senior Independent Director Sir David Omand is currently and has The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate, throughout the year been the Senior clearly established, set out in writing, and have been approved by the Board.
Shareholders can TheChairman is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board bring matters to his attention if they have as a whole, and the Chief Executive for the management of the Group and the concerns which have not been resolved successfulplanning and implementation of Board strategy.
The descriptions through the normal channels of Chairman, belowsummarise their current respective roles and responsibilities.
A copy of Chief Executive or Group Finance theformal written statement is also maintained on the Companys Director, or if these channels are not website at www.
The Chairman The Chairman Chief Executive looks to the Senior Independent Director The Chairman is responsible for the The Chief Executive is responsible for as a sounding board and he is available leadership and overall effectiveness the day-to-day leadership of the business as an intermediary between the other of the Board.
In particular, his role is to: and managing it within the authorities Directors and the Chairman.
The Senior delegated by the Board.
In particular, Independent Director is also responsible with the Chief Executive, demonstrate his role is to: for leading the Non-Executive Directors in ethical leadership and promote the the annual performance evaluation of the highest standards of integrity and develop strategic proposals and annual Chairman.
The specific role of the Senior probity throughout the business plans for recommendation to the Board Independent Director has been set out and ensure that agreed strategies are in writing and approved by the Board.
ensure effective operation of the implemented in the business Board and its Committees in conformity The Non-Executive Directors with the highest standards of develop an organisational structure, The Non-Executive Directors bring corporate governance establishing processes and systems and external perspectives and insight to planning people resourcing to ensure the deliberations of the Board and its set the agenda, style and tone of that the Company has the capabilities Committees, providing a range of Board discussions to promote and resources required to achieve knowledge and business or other constructive debate and effective its plans experience from a range of business decision-making and ensure that the sectors and undertakings see their flow of information to the Board is be responsible to the Board for biographies on page 77.
They play an accurate, timely and clear the performance of the business important role in the formulation and consistent with agreed plans, progression of the Boards agreed build an effective and complementary strategies and policies strategy, and review and monitor Board, with the appropriate balance the performance of the executive of skills, experience and knowledge, demonstrate and communicate to the management in the implementation initiating change and planning Groups employees the expectation of of this strategy.
succession, as well as ensuring the Board with regard to ethical and Non-Executive Directors are appointed Director development and leading cultural values and behaviours, for an expected initial three-year term the evaluation of the performance promoting the highest standards of though the appointments are terminable of the Board, its Committees and good governance at will by either party at any time, subject individual Directors oversee the application of Group to their annual re-election by shareholders foster effective working relationships policies and governance procedures as at the Annual General Meeting AGM, between the Executive and Nonregards health and safety and commencing with their election by Executive Directors and support the environment matters shareholders at the first AGM following Chief Executive in the development of their appointment by the Board.
Redevelop and promote effective strategy and, more broadly, support appointment after the expiry of their communication with shareholders and advise the Chief Executive three-year terms is subject to review by and other relevant constituencies the Nominations Committee.
The Board ensure effective communication with considers the independence of each shareholders, governments and other Non-Executive Director against criteria relevant constituencies and that the specified in the Code.
The Board is views of these groups are understood conscious that before extending the by the Board appointment of any Non-Executive Director in office over six years they should be subject to a particularly rigorous review of their performance and commitment.
The only Non-Executive Director to whom this applied during the Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 83 Governance statement continued year was Ian Duncan whose current Review for year ending 31 March 2016 addressed in the year to 31 March 2016 period of appointment was due to expire The evaluation for the financial year included: at the AGM in July 2016 and whose ending 31 March 2016 was carried out Executive succession plans and their appointment has been extended, subject internally by the Company Secretary.
implementation to his annual re-election by shareholders Thisinvolved confidential, one-on-one This continued to be the subject of at the intervening AGMs, until the AGM in interviews with each Director, including discussion at Board and Nominations 2019.
The performance of all Directors is Directors who had retired from the Board Committee meetings and in meetings evaluated as part of the Board annual during the year under review.
The review between the Chairman and the Nonevaluation process described below.
The elicited Directors views on the balance of Executives and the succession plans terms and conditions of appointment of skills, experience, independence and have been enacted on the retirement the Non-Executive Directors, together knowledge of the Board, how the Board, of Peter Rogers and Kevin Thomas with the service contracts for Executive its Committees, the Chairman and as described on page 87.
Directors, are available for inspection at individual Directors performed and how the Companys registered office during they worked together and other factors Planning to ensure that the Group has the normal business hours, and at the AGM.
Directors necessary talent and skills being recruited were also invited to comment specifically The Group Executive Committee and developed for its long-term needs on succession planning, strategy, risks and The Group Executive Committee reviews This was the subject of formal risk management and any areas of and discusses all matters of material presentations at both the Board and the concern or key messages they might have.
significance to the Groups management, Executive Committee following detailed The output from these interviews was put operational and financial performance as divisional reviews.
Further information together, on a non-attributable basis, in a well as strategic development.
It is not a on activity in this area can be found on report for the Chairman who then used formal Board Committee and has no page 60. the report as the basis for his own round delegated powers as such.
It is made up of one-on-one interviews with each of the Chief Executive, the Chief The Companys international Director.
The Chairman then conveyed Operating Officer, the Group Finance development hisconclusions as to the results of the Director, the Divisional Chief Executives, The Company has looked to build on process, and the Company Secretary the Group Company Secretary and theacquisition of Avincis since renamed submitted a written report to the Board.
General Counsel the Company Mission Critical Services division in order No material concerns were expressed by Secretary and the Group Director of to expand its international footprint.
Board or Committee members as to the Organisation and Development.
It is TheCompany has set up the International way in which the Board or its Committees scheduled to meet ten times a year and Committee which has as its principal functioned, the support given to them, minutes of its meetings are circulated focus the setting and review of the the matters covered at their meetings or toBoard members.
Companys international strategy, the how they were dealt with, or as to the The Group International Committee co-ordination and focus of effort by the contribution of any individual Director.
The Group International Committee Group on international development, and As to areas that were commonly felt reviews and discusses the Groups the review of progress.
The International tobethe primary focus of the Boards international development.
It is not a Committee is concentrating on continuing attention, these, as in prior formal Board Committee and has no expanding the capabilities of the years, were: delegated powers as such.
It is principally Companys international operations.
made up of the Group Finance Director Executive succession plans and and the Divisional Chief Executives.
their implementation Induction and training for Directors It is also attended by the heads of New Non-Executive Directors receive planning to ensure that the Group has the principal overseas operations.
detailed business briefings on the Groups the necessary talent and skills being It is scheduled to meet ten times a operations and make induction visits to recruited and developed for its year and minutes of its meetings are operational sites.
Those who have not long-term needs circulated to the Board.
previously served as a director of a listed strategy and awareness of potential company receive a briefing from the strategic risks Effectiveness Companys external lawyers on their The Board will report back to shareholders duties and responsibilities.
Board evaluation on progress in the 2017 Annual Report.
As required by the Chairman, training for The Board has decided that it will Follow up on the review for year new Directors and ongoing general commission an external independent ending 31 March 2015 Director training is arranged as necessary review of its effectiveness and that of its As reported last year, the Board or as they may request, and the Company Committees and members at least once evaluation for the year ending 31 March Secretary briefs, or arranges briefings for, everythree years, with internally-led 2015 was led internally, by the Company Board members about significant changes reviews in the other years.
Key areas of focus to come out in the law, regulations or governance of that review and how they were codes affecting their duties as Directors.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 84 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Non-Executive Directors may at any Executive Directors are entitled under on pages 92 to 94.
Both the Chairman timemake visits to Group businesses or their service agreements to 12 months and Sir David Omand, the Senior operational sites and Board visits are also notice of termination of employment Independent Director, are available to made to sites.
Presentations on the from the Company: Non-Executive shareholders should they have any Groups businesses and specialist Directors, including the Chairman, concerns where contact through the functions are made to the Board have letters of appointment which normal channels is deemed inappropriate fromtime to time.
can be terminated at will.
or where they believe a matter has not been adequately resolved.
Non-Executive Directors receive copies Relations with shareholders ofminutes of meetings of the Group Over 85% of all Babcock shares are held Executive Committee, the Group by institutional shareholders.
Whilst it is Dialogue with shareholders International Committee and Divisional normal practice for institutional funds to The Board believes it is important to Boards and monthly divisional operating have a greater degree of contact with the maintain open and constructive reports which also cover health, safety Company, all shareholders are welcome relationships with all of its shareholders and environmental matters and to raise questions with the Board at the large and small, institutional and private.
compliance with the Groups ethical and Annual General Meeting.
In addition, The Chief Executive, Group Finance security standards.
They are also invited on a day-to-day basis our investor Director and Head of Investor Relations to attend the Groups senior relations team engages with shareholders undertake a programme of meetings, .
on a wide range of issues on a variety of conference calls and presentations to platforms.
To assist our private and discuss the Groups strategy and financial Information and support for the Board international shareholders, the investor performance with investors, brokers sales The Chairman, with the assistance of the relations team makes sure that all teams and analysts.
The Company offers Company Secretary, ensures appropriate price-sensitive information is released meetings with the Chief Executive and information flows to the Board and its inaccordance with the applicable Group Finance Director to its top 20 Committees to facilitate their discussions legalandregulatory requirements.
shareholders at least twice a year and, and allow fully informed decisions to be Allannouncements and major additionally, during the year the Chairman made.
The Company Secretary attends presentations given to institutional wrote to our largest shareholders inviting allBoard meetings and all Directors shareholders, alongwith annual reports, them to meet with him to discuss have access to his advice and, if necessary, shareholder circulars, shareholder services strategy, performance and corporate to independent professional advice at information, other stock exchange governance matters, resulting in meetings the Companys expense to assist with releases and share price information, with two shareholders.
The Chairman of the discharge of their responsibilities aremade available to all shareholders the Remuneration Committee was also in asDirectors.
through the Babcock website www.
contact with leading shareholders as babcockinternational.
Election of Directors further explained in his annual statement The process for the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors How we communicate to the Board is described in the Results and trading updates available as Nominations Committee section on audiocasts at www.
com investors When pages86 and87 of this report.
May and The rules relating to the appointment and Full-year and half-year results: announcement and presentation November 2015 replacement of Directors are contained Interim management statements and conference call with within the Articles.
The Articles provide Group Finance Director July 2015 that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by Other presentations When a resolution of the Directors, provided June, July and that, in the latter instance, a Director By Group Finance Director at broker organised conferences September 2015 appointed in that way retires and is and events and March 2016 submitted for election at the first AGM following their appointment.
Victoire fide Margerie, who joined the Board on 1 Dealings with shareholders, investors and analysts Resolutions of AGM available at www.
com investors When February 2016, will be complying with this requirement, and, in compliance with Meetings with shareholders and potential investors Throughout provision B.
7.1 of the Code, all other Meetings with sell-side analysts and brokers sales teams Throughout existing Directors will be seeking Letter from the Group Chairman to our shareholders December2015 re-election at the 2016 AGM.
The names Annual General Meeting July 2015 and biographical details of each of the May and Directors are set out on pages76 and 77.
Roadshow in London and Edinburgh November 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 85
