BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 78 Nominations Committee report Members Sir Roger Carr Sir Roger Carr Chairman Chairman of the Elizabeth Corley Nominations Committee Harriet Green Chris Grigg Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Ian Tyler Dear Shareholders, In considering the non-executive roles on In addition to Board membership, the theBoard, it was established that following Nominations Committee has continued During the past 24 months, the Committee thesuccessful recruitment of Elizabeth Corley, toconsider the development of the senior completed a thorough examination of both the Board structure met the requirements of executive team.
To ensure Board members Board composition and senior management the UK Corporate Governance Code, having have adequate exposure to succession plans, succession needs.
This review was to ensure 11 members, of which one was an independent the formal Board site visits are supplemented compliance with the highest governance chairman, four executive and six non-executives by more intimate breakfasts and dinners to standards and to identify and secure the mix 60% independent forthe purposes of the facilitate greater contact between Nominations and skills of the team that was appropriate Code made up of three females 27% and Committee members and high-potential toboth current and future requirements.
In 2016, these events In reviewing the senior Board membership it proved to be both popular and valuable for The skill set of the Board was identified as was acknowledged that the Chief Executive, directors and managers.
having large-scale industrial and commercial Ian King, may wish to retire in 2017 after international management experience On a more formal basis, we continue to serving eight years in the role, but that covering the areas of finance, engineering invitemembers of the Executive Committee allother executive Board positions were andgovernment relationships.
tooccupy a boardroom empty seat in order unlikely to change for the foreseeable future.
that they may gain useful exposure to the The relatively small size of the Board is A thorough appraisal was conducted of workings of a board.
considered to work well, but on occasion candidates that were considered to have places committee membership under pressure.
Finally, in keeping with the Hampton Alexander themix of talent, experience, skills and Against this background and in the light of report, it is our plan to improve further our forward career longevity suitable to take theskill set analysis, it is our intention to make gender balance in senior executive roles, theChief Executive role.
In the light of this a further two non-executive appointments strengthen the wider diversity of our talent research, Charles Woodburn was recruited over the next 18 months.
Our ambition is to pipeline and target 33% of Board positions asChief Operating Officer with a view that, identify and appoint one male and one female tobe held by women by 2020.
By adopting after a period of industry assimilation and non-executive, ideally with international this holistic approach of understanding and management responsibility, he would prove contracting and or cyber technology building the talent within the Company, whilst tobe an appropriate successor.
These appointments will both occasionally benchmarking and recruiting I am pleased to report that, following the strengthen the existing Board membership from outside the organisation, the Board and Committees nomination, the Board has and prepare for the inevitable departure of Nominations Committee consider they are agreed to appoint Charles to succeed Ian Board members when they complete their discharging their responsibilities enthusiastically, Kingas Chief Executive when he retires third term in 2019. professionally and appropriately.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman of the NominationsCommittee Nominations Committee timeline May June December Committee Committee Committee In addition to the formal Committee meetings, the Chairman met informally with non-executive directors on a number of occasions during the year to discuss Nominations Committee-related matters.
