BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 71 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Governance disclosures UK Corporate Governance Code Integrated Business Plan IBP Going concern statement theCode Compliance The IBP represents a common process with Accounting standards require that directors standard outputs and requirements that The Company was compliant with the satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for produces an integrated strategic and business provisions of the Code throughout 2016 them to conclude whether it is appropriate plan for the Group and also for each of its andthe Board has applied itsprinciples in toprepare financial statements on a going businesses over the following five years.
concern basis and the Code requires that, if Theuse of a five-year period provides a Thefollowing statements aremade in appropriate, this report includes a statement robustplanning tool against which long-term compliance with the Code.
Following review, the directors decisions can be made concerning, amongst have concluded that it is appropriate to Risk management and internal other things, strategic priorities, funding adoptthe going concern basis for these controlstatement requirements including commitments to financial statements and have not identified Group pension schemes, returns made to The Board is responsible for the Companys any material uncertainties concerning the shareholders, capital expenditure and resource risk management and internal control systems.
Companys ability to do so in the 12-month planning.
Longer-term strategic inputs also It has delegated responsibility for reviewing in period from the date of approving them.
form part of the IBP process and, where detail the effectiveness of these systems to the Forthis reason, they continue to adopt the activity is required to meet suchlong-term Audit Committee, which reports to the Board going concern basis in preparing theaccounts.
priorities, this is provided forinthe plan.
on its findings so that all directors can take a Directors view on the matter.
The detailed plan is reviewed each year In compliance with the Code, all directors are bytheBoard as part of its strategy review An overview of the processes used to identify, subject to annual election by shareholders.
Once approved by the Board, the evaluate and manage the principal risks can be The Chairman has confirmed that, based on IBPprovides the basis for setting all detailed found on pages 58 and 59.
These processes the formal performance evaluations undertaken financial budgets and strategic actions across are an integral part of our governance in 2016 and 2017, all remain committed to the businesses, and is subsequently used framework, the Operational Framework, therole and the individual performance of bythe Board to monitor performance.
details of which can be found on page 67. alldirectors continues to be effective.
Also, TheOperational Framework mandates the Liquidity analysis incompliance with the Code, the Company Operational Assurance Statement process, The Board regularly reviews an analysis based ensures that non-executive directors have which is owned by the Companys Internal on the financial output from the IBP, looking sufficient time to fulfil their obligations.
This Audit function and is one of the principal at the forecast working capital requirements, isassessed when a director is appointed and processes used by the Board in monitoring the cash flow, and committed borrowing and also in the event of there being a material effectiveness of control systems.
other funding facilities available to the change to an individuals circumstances.
Company over the five-year period covered The risk management and internal control During the year, Ian Tyler was appointed bythe IBP.
This analysis includes stress testing systems detailed in the Operational Framework chairman of AWE Management Limited, a of the Companys liquidity under severe, but were in place throughout the year and the non-listed company, which was in addition plausible, scenarios as developed from the IBP, Board, having reviewed their effectiveness, tohis chairmanship appointments with Cairn including the impact of changes to the terms believes they accord with the Financial Energy and Bovis Homes Group.
In 2016, of trade it enjoys with different customers Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk theChairman led an assessment of Mr Tylers andits funding commitments to Group Management, Internal Control and Related other time commitments and agreed that pension schemes.
theywould not impact his ability to fulfil his In undertaking its review of the IBP in 2016, commitments to the Company, but it was Viability statement the Board considered the prospects of the agreed that this should be reviewed on an As required by the provisions of the Code, the Company over the five-year period covered annual basis.
This review was undertaken and Board has undertaken an assessment of the bythe process.
On the basis of this and other it was confirmed that his other commitments future prospects of the Company taking into matters considered and reviewed by the Board were not having an impact on his ability to account the Companys current position and during the year, the Board has reasonable fulfil his commitments to the Company.
This assessment was informed expectations that the Company will be able other commitments have reduced recently as by the following business processes: tocontinue in operation and meet its liabilities aresult of him stepping down from the board as they fall due over the following five years.
Risk management process of Mediclinic International plc.
Itis recognised that such future assessments The Company has developed a structured Elizabeth Corley and Charles Woodburn, who are subject to a level of uncertainty that approach to the management of risk joined the Board during the year, completed increases with time and, therefore, future seeabove and the principal risks identified structured induction programmes.
outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted are considered as part of the Boards annual with certainty.
Also, this assessment was made review of the Integrated Business Plan.
The Company considers that all of the recognising the principal risks that could have non-executive directors identified on page 69 an impact on the future performance of the of this report are independent in accordance Company see pages 60 to 63. with Code provisions.
