BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 66 Board governance Shareholders Approximately 100,000 individual, corporate and employee shareholders who are invited to meet atleast annually in person or by proxy and exercise their stewardship voting rights on the basis ofone share one vote.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders vote on key governance matters, including the re-election of directors, their remuneration, the paymentof dividends and the appointment of the auditors.
Shareholder relations The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet theCompanysprincipal shareholders on a regular basis.
Separately, the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Companys principal shareholders on governance matters and ensures that all directors are aware of their views.
Board Currently comprising 11 directors who meet regularly and make decisions on a collective basis.
Thedirectors have a legal duty to promote the success of the Company.
The Board has adopted a governance structure based on the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Thisisdetailed inthe Operational Framework see opposite, which delegates matters to employees in a mannerthat has been designed to provide ongoing oversight of performance and adherence to policies andbehavioural expectations.
Board composition The Board consists of executive and independent non-executive directors, plus a non-executive chairman whowas independent in accordance with the Code on his appointment.
The non-executive directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
They also scrutinisethe performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and satisfy themselves astotheintegrity offinancial information, and that systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
Inaddition, they set the remuneration of the executive directors and oversee board succession planning.
Delegated Chairman authority Responsible for leading the Board and ensuring that it discharges its duties efficiently.
Oversight of Chief Executive performance Responsible for the implementation and delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
andcompliance Senior Independent Director with the Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and acts as an intermediary for the other directors asnecessary.
Operational Framework Company Secretary Responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Through the Chairman, heisresponsible for ensuring that directors are supplied with information in a timely manner.
Reporting, as appropriate, to Delegation through committee the Board on matters considered and agreed terms of reference Board committees The membership of the principal board committees see below solely comprises non-executive directors.
Theyprovide leadership, scrutiny and oversight over key governance areas.
P72 P76 P78 P79 Audit Committee Corporate Nominations Remuneration Responsibility Committee Committee Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 67 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operational Framework The Board has put in place a detailed governance framework, the Operational Framework.
It sets out how we do business across BAE Systems and encapsulates our values, policies and processes, together with clear levels of delegated responsibility aimed at ensuring that all of our employees and businesses act inaclear, accountable and consistent manner.
How we work The processes and policies in the Operational Framework set out the principles of good governance which, together with our culture, guide our work and behaviour in support of the strategy set in our Group strategic framework see page 16.
Here we setout the values that we ask all our employees to demonstrate in their day-to-day work, wherever they are in the world.
We also confirm our commitment to Total Performance which defines how we achievesuccess based on Customer Focus, Programme Execution, Financial Performance and Responsible Behaviour.
Organisation From the Board downwards, we set out how we are organised and the responsibilities of the Board, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Executive Committee, our Functional Councils such as Engineering, Human Resources and Procurement and thesenior executives charged with running our businesses.
Governance The UK Corporate Governance Codes the Code principles are embedded in the Operational Framework and its policies and processes underpin allthe disclosures made by the Board pursuant to Code provisions.
How we conduct our business is fundamental to the success of BAE Systems.
The Operational Framework sets out our approach and the standards to which we adhere.
It includes the following: Code of Conduct Operational Assurance Statement OAS Risk framework Sets the standards to which we all work.
This key governance process requires that This is how we identify, analyse, evaluate areturn is completed every six months by and mitigate risk see page 58.
Responsible Trading Principles each operational and functional business We do not compromise on the way Workplace and operational head, reporting their formal view against wedobusiness and here we mandate environment such matters as compliance with law and aprinciples-based approach to our This covers how we expect our people regulation, ethical business conduct, businessactivity.
tobe managed and the obligations placed financial controls, risk management, on us all concerning avoiding conflicts of Internal controls compliance with business planning interest, anti-bribery, and managing the These are the controls that apply to all processes, health and safety, conflicts of security ofour people, information and ourbusinesses and provide assurance interest, delegated authorities, appointment other assets.
regarding: of advisers and product safety.
There is a separate OAS process for our joint ventures.
Delegated authorities the reliability and integrity of information: Our Internal Audit function owns the OAS As part of a robust system of internal compliance with policies, processes, laws, process.
It is managed independently from controls, the Board has delegated certain regulations and contracts: management functions with the Internal authorities to executive management.
the safeguarding of assets and protection Audit Director being responsible to the Delegation is subject to financial limits and against fraud: and Audit Committee and reporting directly other restrictions, above which matters the economical and efficient use of tothe Chief Executive.
must be referred to the Board.
Core business processes These core business processes are mandated by the Operational Framework and designed to ensure consistent planning, reporting andreview of business performance across all businesses: IBP LCM M&A TPL Integrated Business Planning Lifecycle Management Policy Mergers & Acquisitions Policy Total Performance Leadership Approved by the Board annually, How we plan and manage the A structured approach to A set of people-related creates a consistent approach execution of all projects above a mergers, acquisitions and activitiesthat help to identify, tostrategic planning, aligning certain minimum level, providing disposals.
select, manage and reward resources with the delivery of decision gate reviews at key leaders, and facilitates forecast financial performance stages from initial opportunity succession planning.
