BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 68 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Sir Roger Carr Ian King Charles Woodburn Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2007 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2016 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Having joined the Board in 2013, Sir Roger was Ian was appointed as Chief Executive in 2008 Charles joined BAE Systems in May 2016 as appointed Chairman in 2014.
He is an experienced havingbeen originally appointed to the Board as ChiefOperating Officer.
He will succeed Ian King company chairman with a wealth of knowledge gained ChiefOperating Officer, UK and Rest of the World.
asChief Executive with effect from 1 July 2017. across a number of business sectors.
He currently Hewill retire on 30 June 2017.
He was previously Priorto joining the Company, he spent over 20 years serves as vice chairman of the BBC Trust, a position Group Managing Director of the Companys inthe oil and gas industry, holding a number of hehas held since March 2015.
CustomerSolutions & Support business and, prior seniormanagement positions in the Far East, Australia, tothat, Group Strategy and Planning Director.
He joined the Company from With over two decades of boardroom experience, tothe BAe MES merger, he was Chief Executive of theoilfield services business, Expro Group, where SirRoger has a deep understanding of corporate Alenia Marconi Systems, having previously served heserved as Chief Executive Officer.
Prior to that, governance and what is required to lead an asFinance Director of Marconi Electronic Systems.
hespent 15 years with Schlumberger Limited.
Other appointments Other past appointments Prior to joining BAE Systems, Sir Roger was Chairman Non-executive director of Schroders plc.
Non-executive director of Seadrill Limited.
ofCentrica plc and Deputy Chairman of the Court of the Bank of England.
In the past, he has also served Other past appointments aschairman ofThames Water plc, Cadbury plc, Non-executive director and senior independent director Chubband Mitchells & Butlers plc.
He has been active of Rotork plc.
in representing UK business having previously served Committee membership asPresident of the CBI and as a member of the Prime Non-Executive Directors FeesCommittee.
He was a member of the Higgs Committee on Corporate Governance, which assistedin further developing the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Other appointments A senior adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, a fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, an honorary fellow ofthe Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, and a visiting fellow to the Sad Business School, Oxford.
Other past appointments Chief Executive, Williams plc.
Committee membership Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
Jerry DeMuro Peter Lynas President and Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director ofBAESystems, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2014 Nationality: US Skills, competence and experience Peter, a qualified accountant, was appointed tothe Skills, competence and experience Board as Group Finance Director in 2011.
He previously Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014 as President served for a number of years as Director, Financial and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Control, Reporting & Treasury.
He joined GEC-Marconi Jerryis an experienced US executive who has worked in 1985 having previously worked for other companies in the national security, technology and aerospace in the UK and Europe.
After progressing through a industry for over 30 years.
Most recently, he served as number of positions, he was appointed Finance executive vice president and corporate vice president Director of GECs Marconi Electronic Systems business, of General Dynamics Information Systems and which was subsequently acquired byBritish Aerospace Technology Group.
Earlier in his career, he spent in 1999 to become BAE Systems.
almost a decade as an acquisition official at the USDepartment of Defense.
Other appointments Non-executive director of SSE plc and chairman of Other appointments itsaudit committee.
Non-executive director of Aero Communications, Inc. Committee membership Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 69 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Non-executive directors Elizabeth Corley CBE Harriet Green OBE Chris Grigg Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2016 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Elizabeth brings investor, governance and boardroom Harriet is a transformative business leader with As chief executive of a FTSE 100 company, Chris brings experience to the Board.
She is currently non-executive international operational and boardroom experience.
management and boardroom experience to the Board.
vice-chair of Allianz Global Investors, and a She is currently General Manager of Watson Customer He is currently Chief Executive of The British Land non-executive director of Pearson plc and the UK Engagement, Watson Internet of Things and Education Company PLC, a position he has held since 2009.
Chris has more than 30 years experience in the She served as Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Harriet has extensive global business leadership banking and real estate industries.
Prior to joining Investors, initially for Europe then globally, from 2005 experience.
She previously served as Chief Executive British Land, he was Chief Executive of Barclays to 2016.
Prior to that, she worked for Merrill Lynch Officer and executive director of Thomas Cook plc.
Before that, he was a partner at Investment Managers.
She is a governor of the Prior to that, she was Chief Executive Officer and Goldman Sachs.
CFAInstitute and a trustee of the British Museum.
executive director of Premier Farnell plc.
Previously, she Other appointments was also a non-executive director of Emerson Electric Co. Elizabeth is active in representing the investment Member of the executive board of the European Public industry and developing standards within it.
She In 2016, she won the Women in Technology Institute Real Estate Association and the board of the British isamember of the FICC Market Standards Board, Award and, in 2014, she received the Veuve Clicquot Property Federation.
theEuropean Securities and Markets Authoritys Business Woman Award.
Committee membership stakeholder group and of the advisory council of Other appointments Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations TheCityUK.
Elizabeth is also an acclaimed writer Member of the British Chambers of Commerces Committee.
andmember of the Royal Society ofArts.
Other appointments Other past appointments Chair of the advisory group to the UK government Member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
Committee membership Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Ian Tyler Non-executive director Non-executive director and Non-executive director SeniorIndependent Director Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: US Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience An experienced company director in both the UK and Ian brings considerable financial and long-term Skills, competence and experience North America, Paula is currently Chief Executive international contracting experience to the Board.
Nick brings to the Board considerable financial Officer and President of the business advisory group Heiscurrently chairman of two UK listed companies, expertise and boardroom experience.
He is currently PreferWest LLC, and a non-executive director of BP p. l. c. Bovis Homes Group PLC and Cairn Energy plc.
Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings PLC, and a CBRE Group, Inc. and TransCanada Corporation.
non-executive director and senior independent director Having qualified as a chartered accountant, Ian Starting her career as an economist, she spent over of BT Group plc.
subsequently held a number of senior finance and 20years in the energy sector, culminating in her operational positions within industrial companies before Nick was Chief Financial Officer of Diageo plc for over appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer being appointed Finance Director of Balfour Beatty plc ten years until 2010.
In this role, he was responsible for ofAGL Resources in2002.
She served as President and in 1996.
He was subsequently appointed Chief supply, procurement, strategy and IT on a global basis.
Chief Executive Officer of Safeco Corporation before Executive, a position he stepped down from in 2013.
His financial experience was developed during his time becoming Vice Chairman and Chief Restructuring as group treasurer and group controller at Diageo, and Other appointments Officer of American International Group, overseeing also in his earlier career at Ford Finance.
He is a former Chairman of AWE Management Limited.
itsdivestiture of assets and serving as chief liaison Chairman of the engineering technology company withthe Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Other past appointments Edwards Group Limited.
Non-executive director of Mediclinic International plc, She received the National Association of Corporate Other appointments Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and VT Group plc.
Directors National Lifetime Achievement Award in 2014.
Adviser to CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC and Committee membership Other past appointments non-executive chairman of Loch Lomond Group.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Non-executive director of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. Other past appointments and member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Delta Air Lines Inc. Non-executive director of Mot Hennessy SNC and Committee.
Air Products and Chemicals Inc. and Siluria Scottish Power plc.
Technologies, Inc. Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee, and member of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and member Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
