BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 65 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Governance highlights Board evaluation Charles Woodburn recruited during 2016 and the Board has announced development areas that he will succeed Ian King as Chief Executive with effect from 1 July 2017 Succession planning greater Board Elizabeth Corley joined the Board as a non-executive director engagement in executive development and succession planning, including A review of the Directors remuneration policy completed by the greater visibility of high-potential Remuneration Committee following engagement and discussion with individuals.
The new policy will be putto this Board composition continue the years Annual General Meeting AGM for approval non-executive succession planning activity with a view to recruiting an Auditor re-tender initiated by the Audit Committee, which will result additional director.
innew auditors being proposed for appointment at the 2018 AGM Induction process produce a new induction manual for newly-appointed A new programme of informal meetings created, enabling non-executive directors.
directors and senior executives below the Board tomeet and help Board meetings and papers review the directors develop their knowledge of the Companys management Boards annual schedule of meetings in resources and business issues the interests of efficient use of time, travel and Board engagement.
Continue An  Board performance evaluation completed during to improve the balance of detail, overview the year and a number of actions agreed based on the findings and analysis provided in Board papers.
The evaluation was undertaken by Independent Board Evaluation, who have no other connection with the Company.
In particular, you will find on page 66 an In parallel with an independent appraisal of By adopting this approach, and regular outline of our governance structure, including Board performance, from time to time we engagement and involvement with all our how the Board sets the values, behavioural commission an independent survey of our stakeholders, the Board believes that it is expectations, policies and processes that shareholders views and perceptions of the bestplaced to align its policies and practices guideall that we do in BAE Systems and performance of the Company.
This document inkeeping with the required governance alsohow the Board maintains oversight over is shared with all Board members as a standards of the day.
performance and compliance with these supplement to the updates provided by The following report details how the Board delegated requirements.
As our Chief seniorexecutive Board members.
In addition, has applied the UK Corporate Governance Executive tells all employees, Its not just as Chairman, I consult with our large Code principles in the conduct of our business about what we do, but how we do it.. shareholders to ensure they have a full during the year.
understanding of our strategy and I and Achieving high standards of corporate theBoard have received direct feedback on governance is an intrinsic part of the Boards their views on the Company, its performance agenda and, to that end, we completed a and governance.
wide-ranging  evaluation of Board performance during the year.
My contact is supplemented by independent meetings held by the Chairman of the The review reported very favourably on Remuneration Committee with specific Boardmember attitude, engagement and reference to our paypolicy and reward contribution, and on the processes, practices Sir Roger Carr Chairman structures.
Of course, asrequired by the UK and principles employed by the Company.
Corporate Governance Code, shareholders Asummary of the areas for development have access to the Senior Independent agreed by the Board is shown above.
Director if there are concerns that cannot We have recently completed the internal beresolved through the normal Chairman performance evaluation for 2017, which orChief Executive channels.
willfocus on the areas recommended for As a Board, we are committed to the highest improvement in 2016 and, as mentioned standards of behaviour, transparency and above, any actions necessary in response open discussion, together with diversity of tothe FRCs report on culture.
opinion, experience, background and gender.
