BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 72 Audit Committee report Members Nick Rose Nick Rose Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee Paula Rosput Reynolds Ian Tyler Dear Shareholders, As planned, the Audit Committee has The tender is being competed by highly embarked on a process that will result in capable and experienced international audit The section on the Audit Committees year newauditors being appointed in 2018. firms with strong track records and technical onpage 75 provides an overview of the Onemajor aspect of re-tendering any expertise.
In coming to the shortlist, we workthat we have undertaken inthe last externalaudit appointment is dealing with concluded that the complexity of the Group 12months and I would like tofocus here thepotential loss of experience and expertise and the scale of its international business onspecific aspects.
of the incumbent auditor and the inevitable require an incoming auditor to have the The work performed by the Companys learning curve faced by the incoming auditor.
globalreach and experience of one of the auditor is of fundamental importance to Continuity and consistency of audit quality larger firms.
Whilst there are no contractual theAudit Committee and the wider Board, isimportant and, as a Committee, we have obligations that would restrict the selection tomanagement and, of course, to you as been mindful of the need to allow for a ofan incoming auditor, increased regulatory shareholders to whom the Independent shadow audit period encompassing both restrictions on non-audit services work that Auditors report on pages 117 to 120 is the2017 half-year and full-year audits as can be undertaken by an incumbent auditor specifically addressed.
partof the auditor appointment process.
mean that both outgoing and incoming Audit rotation regulations going forward auditors have to be unencumbered by the willrequire large companies to re-tender provision to the audited entity of certain types theirexternal audit service no less of non-audit services and this, too, has been frequentlythan every ten years.
taken into account in the selection procedure.
The timeline for our audit re-tender process The Committee agreed the Request for isshown below.
As previously reported, Proposal documentation sent to the selected KPMG LLP and their predecessors have been firms and the Committee members have each in place as the Companys auditors since met with the lead partners of the tendering 1981without re-tender and, given the length firms.
The process is on track and the of their current incumbency, have not been Committee intends to be in a position to make invited to tender, but are committed to our recommendation to the Board on a new ensuring a smooth transition.
Our KPMG auditor in May 2017 for the 2018 audit.
The auditengagement partner, Ian Starkey, recommendation will then be put before hasbeen in this role since 2013 and the shareholders at the 2018 Annual General endof his five-year tenure, when he would Meeting AGM.
otherwise rotate off our audit, will coincide with the appointment of a new audit firm.
External audit tender timeline Prior to May 2016 June 2016 Summer 2016 December 2016 Pre-audit qualification and Request for Proposal documents Meetings with lead partners Tender progress independence enquiries for selected firms agreed oftendering firms assessment September 2016 to March 2017 Fact-finding process for tendering firms BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 73 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements External audit Audit independence Financial statements Both the Committee and management As mentioned above, audit independence The Committee reviews all significant issues andindeed our current auditors have been iscoming under increasing focus and we concerning the financial statements.
The conscious of the importance of not letting havereviewed in detail the confirmation principal matters we considered concerning theaudit re-tender distract us from andinformation received from KPMG on the 2016 financial statements were: business-as-usual in the audit environment.
thearrangements that they have in place Recognition of revenue, profit Our discussions with KPMG have focused on tosafeguard auditor independence and andprovisioning audit scope and maintaining audit quality, as objectivity, including specific safeguards in We reviewed key estimates and judgements well asensuring that we have an experienced, place where they are providing permissible prior to publication of the financial statements.
quality team in place following some recent non-audit services to the Group.
Our review included the key estimates and rotations offour account.
Non-audit services policy assumptions applied in determining the In line with our usual practice, we have The Committee has a formal policy financial status of the more significant undertaken a review of the effectiveness governingthe engagement of the auditors programmes, including Typhoon, UK aircraft ofthe external audit and the output of the toprovide non-audit services which we carrier programme, Astute Class submarine review following the 2016 year-end audit reviewon an annual basis.
The policy programme, Saudi British Defence Co-operation enabled us to recommend to the Board prohibitscertain activities from being Programme, losses on US commercial thatitseek shareholder approval for the undertaken by the auditors and also places shipbuilding contracts, customer payments on re-appointment of KPMG LLP at the 2017 restrictions on the employment of former export orders and JP 2008 Phase 3F programme AGM.
For the remaining year of KPMGs employees of the auditors.
for enhanced satellite communications services audittenure the financial year ending to the Australian Defence Force.
Recognising that the auditors are best 31December 2017 the focuswill be on placedtoundertake certain work of a Pensions asmooth transition to thenew incumbent non-audit nature, the policy permits the Recognising the scale of the Groups pension without compromising audit quality.
provision of Audit-Related Services and obligation, we reviewed the key assumptions Permitted Non-Audit Services up to limits supporting the valuation of the retirement How the effectiveness of the external thatare pre-approved by the Committee, benefit obligation.
This included a comparison audit process was assessed withspecific approvals required beyond of the discount and inflation rates used against suchlimits by the Committee.
We reviewed the Who we survey: methodology used to allocate a proportion Executive directors As part of the 2016 review, we made ofthe retirement benefit obligation to equity revisionsto the policy in order to ensure Operating group sector and line accounted investments and concluded that compliance with the Financial Reporting ofbusinessmanagement this was appropriate with reference to Councils revised regulations on ethical Internal Audit Director agreements between the Company and those standards for auditors and EU regulations companies.
We also considered the adequacy Other senior executives, including adopted by the UK which apply prohibitions of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of keyfinanceroles toa range of engagements that could result the deficit to changes in these key inan auditor facing a conflict of interest.
Areas we cover: assumptions see page 163.
Asaresult, certain services formerly provided Understanding of the Groups risks by KPMG, primarily tax services and investor Goodwill Audit plan information services, are no longer being We considered the level of goodwill held Robustness of audit processes providedby them with effect from 1 January onthe Groups balance sheet in respect 2017.
A copy of the revised policyis available ofanumber of past major transactions Objectivity on the Companys website, baesystems.
andwhether, given the future prospects Quality of communications ofthese businesses, the value of goodwill Details of fees payable to the auditors are Ability to provide a seamless service heldon thebalance sheet remains appropriate.
In 2016, non-audit fees across differing jurisdictions The methodology for impairment testing represented 19% of the audit fee.
The principal usedby the Group is set out in note 8 to the non-audit services provided by theauditors Group accounts on page 139.
No goodwill related to tax compliance services, the interim impairments were identified as a result of review and investor information services.
External audit tender timeline May 2017 August 2017 February 2018 May 2018 Selection of new auditors for Announcement of Announcement of Board recommendation recommendation to the Board half-year results full-year results atAnnual General Meeting toappoint new auditors June 2017 to July 2017 December 2017 to February 2018 Half-year results Full-year results shadow period shadow period BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 74 Audit Committee report continued Taxation Internal control and risk Internal audit Whilst tax policy is ultimately a matter for The Board has delegated to the Committee Internal Audit plays an integral role in the theBoards determination, we reviewed the responsibility for reviewing in detail the Companys governance structure and provides Groups tax strategy as set out on page 30. effectiveness of the Companys risk regular reports to the Committee, including Twice during the year, we reviewed the management and internal control system.
the outputs of the twice-yearly OAS process Groupstax charge, tax provisions and the TheCommittees review of the effectiveness and the tracking of remedial action in the case basis of recoverability of the deferred tax of internal controls has encompassed a review of any control failures.
assetrelating to the Groups pension deficit.
of the reports relating to the six-monthly The annual Internal Audit programme is Operational Assurance Statements OAS, During the year, the Financial Reporting agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate which are submitted by each business or Council FRC reviewed the tax disclosures in Responsibility committees to ensure that function as amandated policy under the the Companys 2015 Annual Report as part theoverarching programme covers not only Group-wide Operational Framework, and ofthe FRCs thematic review of tax reporting financial risk, but also the assessment of controls reports and reports from both announced in December 2015.
The tax theeffectiveness of key areas of ethical and internaland external auditors.
disclosures of 32 other FTSE 350 companies reputational risk.
The assurance programme were also reviewed.
There were no major A key focus for the Committee is the covers a broad range of audits covering areas financial reporting changes arising from this controlsenvironment surrounding the such as mandated governance, OAS outputs, 1 review and the enquiries are closed.
Companys Lifecycle Management LCM risk register findings, change programmes, process, the bedrock of our programme and areas relating to responsible behaviour and Alternative Performance Measures execution and management.
LCM is integral non-financial risk, as well as accommodating We reviewed disclosures to ensure that to the successful execution of the Groups ad hoc Internal Audit requests.
guidance issued by the European Securities projects and programmes, and of particular and Markets Authority and the FRC was During the year under review, and separate importance in the early identification of takeninto account in the Annual Report.
from the normal regular sessions we hold programme risk and the determination of withthe Internal Audit Director without Going concern and viability statements profit recognition or provisioning which, you management present, we held a separate The Committee agreed the parameters will see from above, tend to be areas where session with him which, together with output of, andreviewed the supporting report for, we are required to exercise judgement.
We from the annual evaluation of the function, the going concern statement see page 71 have discussed the outputs of general financial ishelping us to shape the Internal Audit and the statement on the Boards assessment and LCM controls testing, and any required programme to leverage the use of this vital of the prospects of the Company the viability improvement actions, with management, resource for valued-added assurance.
statement on page 71 on the five-year period andinternal and external audit, with a view used in the Integrated Business Plan.
toensuring the ongoing robustness of After discussion of the 2016 evaluation programme execution and risk mitigation.
outputwith the Internal Audit Director, theCommittee concluded that the Internal How we ensure that the Groups We have reviewed the ongoing effectiveness Audit function remains effective.
We currently financial statements, taken as a whole, of the Companys risk management processes intend to undertake an external assessment are fair, balanced and understandable as part of our wider review of internal ofthe function in 2017. controls.
The Groups principal risks are set The process is: outon pages 60 to 63. comprehensive guidance issued to all How the Committee assesses the thecontributors at operational level: effectiveness of Internal Audit a verification process dealing with the Who we survey: factual content of the reports: Group-wide heads of Audit Review Boards comprehensive reviews undertaken Other business leaders atdifferent levels in the Group that External auditors aimto ensure consistency and overall balance: and Areas for requested feedback include: Role of Internal Audit and independence comprehensive review by the directors andthe Executive Committee.
Audit planning, processes and execution People resources and skilling Reporting Nick Rose Chairman of the Audit Committee 1.
In choosing to refer to the FRCs review, the Company isasked by the FRC to make clear that the FRCs role is not to verify the accuracy of the Companys report and accounts or other information provided to the FRC, but Competition and Markets Authority Audit Order to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
The Committee has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority The FRC accepts no liability for reliance on its letters on this matter by any third party, including but not limited Audit Order in respect of committee responsibilities and audit re-tending disclosures.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 75 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements The Audit Committees year February June July Committee Committee Committee London, UK Washington DC, US London, UK Considered the accounting, financial Agreed audit engagement and audit fee.
Considered the accounting, financial controland audit issues reported by the controland audit issues reported by the Agreed audit strategy and scope.
auditors that flowed from the audit work.
Reviewed external auditor independence Reviewed the financial statements and Reviewed the financial statements and issues.
specific disclosures, including going concern, specific disclosures, including viability Agreed Request for Proposal, timeline for recommendation to the Board.
andgoing concern, for recommendation andprocess for the auditre-tender.
Received a report from the Group Taxation Discussed with external auditors the Director.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Financial Reporting Councils latest externalaudit process.
Considered output from the six-monthly QualityReview onKPMG which OAS review.
Received a report from the Group didnotinclude the BAE Systems audit.
Reviewed the procedures and outputs Received a report on the Groups insurance forthe identification, assessment and Considered output from the six-monthly arrangements.
Considered output of the Internal 1 Regular quarterly items.
Reviewed the procedures and outputs AuditDirectors report.
forthe identification, assessment and Received a presentation from VP, Audit Meeting reporting of risk.
London, UK Reviewed the effectiveness of the 1 Regular quarterly items.
Informal meeting with the Internal Companys helpline procedures in AuditDirector to discuss best practice respectofthe reporting of accounting Summer developments in internal audit and .
London, UK December Joint session with the Corporate Meetings between individual Audit Committee : Committee members and lead partners Agreed final iteration of the annual London, UK ofaudit tender firms to discuss the audit InternalAudit programme.
Assessed progress on the audit re-tender.
Considered the external auditors May controlsreport.
Committee Considered output of the Internal Audit London, UK Directors report.
Agreed the AGM Trading Statement.
Presentation from the Head of Internal Audit, Programmes & Support.
Reviewed the fees for non-audit services.
Received a report on export control compliance.
Amended the Non-Audit Services Policy.
Discussed the first iteration of the annual Internal Audit programme.
Committee composition and evaluation Set the parameters for work supporting The breadth of experience of the Audit Committee members is set out on page 69. theviability and going concern statements.
Theperformance evaluation of the Committee is undertaken as part of the wider Board Undertook a review of the effectiveness evaluation and the Board believes the Committee to have the appropriate composition ofthe Internal Audit function.
andcomplement of skills to discharge its responsibilities.
Audit Committee timeline February May June July December Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meeting 1.
The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services including independence safeguards from the incumbent auditor where it provides such services, and holds a separate session with the Internal Audit Director and external auditors without management present.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets separately with internal andexternal audit.
