68 Leadership Board of Directors The Board comprises seven Directors.
The names of the Directors serving throughout the year and at the year end are shown here.
Philip Aiken AM 68 Leo Quinn 60 Chairman Group Chief Executive Other than Maureen Kempston Darkes, Joined the Board as Chairman in March 2015.
Appointed as Group Chief Executive in all of the Directors in office on 15 March He is non-executive chairman of Aveva Group January 2015, after five years as group 2017 will seek re-election at the AGM in plc and a non-executive director of Newcrest chief executive of QinetiQ Group plc and Mining Limited.
He was a non-executive before that five years as CEO of fide La Rue accordance with the Code.
director of National Grid plc, chairman of plc.
Prior to these senior roles, he spent Other Directors who held office during the Robert Walters plc and a non-executive and almost four years as COO of Invensys year were: senior independent director of Kazakhmys plcs production management business, plc and Essar Energy plc, and a senior adviser headquartered in the US, and 16 years with Graham Roberts who was a at Macquarie Bank Ltd.
Prior to that, he was Honeywell Inc in senior management roles non-executive Director until 1 July 2016. group president Energy BHP Billiton and across the UK, Europe, the Middle East and From 13 January 2016, as part of an agreed president BHP Petroleum, chief executive Africa, including global president of H&BC review of Committee memberships: of BTR Nylex, and held senior roles in Enterprise Solutions.
He was a non-executive BOC Group.
director of Betfair Group plc and Tomkins plc.
Iain Ferguson rejoined the Audit and He is a civil engineer, and began his career at Risk Committee 2 3 4 Balfour Beatty.
He is the founder of The 5% Leo Quinn joined the Safety and Club which encourages industry to increase Sustainability Committee graduate training and apprenticeships.
Maureen Kempston Darkes left the Nomination Committee 2 3 5 6 Stuart Doughty left the Remuneration Committee and joined the Nomination Committee.
From March 2016, Stephen Billingham was appointed acting chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee while Graham Roberts stepped back for reasons of health.
Stephens appointment was made permanent with effect from 1 July 2016.
Maureen Kempston Darkes 68 Dr Stephen Billingham 58 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed a Director in 2012.
She joined Appointed a Director in June 2015.
General Motors Corporation in 1975 and held He is chairman of Anglian Water Group Ltd, a number of progressively senior roles during chairman of Punch Taverns plc and chairman her time with the business, culminating in of Urenco Ltd.
He has over three decades her appointment as group vice-president of business and management experience, for General Motors Latin America, Africa including 11 years with the Company under its and Middle East operations.
She retired former name, BICC plc.
He was group finance from General Motors in 2009.
She has a director CFO of British Energy Group plc and portfolio of non-executive directorships of WS Atkins plc.
including Brookfield Asset Management, 1 Canadian National Railways, Enbridge Inc, Irving Oil Company and Schlumberger.
She is a member of the Canadian Governments Science, Technology and Innovation Council.
2 4 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 69 Board balance Philip Harrison 56 Iain Ferguson CBE 61 Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Senior Chairman 1 Independent Director Executive Directors 2 Non-executive Directors 4 Appointed as Chief Financial Officer in June Appointed a Director in 2010.
He was previously group finance was chief executive of Tate & Lyle.
Prior to director at Hogg Robinson Group plc, and joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, he spent 26 Board tenure before that he was group finance director at years at Unilever in a succession of roles VT Group plc.
Prior to that, he served as VP culminating in his appointment as senior Finance at Hewlett-Packard Europe, Middle vice-president, corporate development.
He is East and Africa region and was a member non-executive chairman of Berendsen plc and of the EMEA board.
His earlier career Stobart Group Limited.
He is also chairman included senior international finance roles at of Wilton Park, an independent and nonCompaq, Rank Xerox and Texas Instruments.
profit making Executive Agency of the British He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
formerly a non-executive director of Sygen International and of Greggs plc.
5 6 1 2 3 4 02 years 4 24 years 1 46 years 1 6 years 1 Board balance Board Committees code: 1 Audit and Risk 2 Safety and Sustainability 3 Nomination 4 Remuneration 5 Group Tender and Investment 6 Finance and General Purposes Male 6 Stuart Doughty CMG 73 Chair Female 1 Non-executive Director Board geography Appointed a Director in April 2015.
He has over 45 years experience in the civil engineering, construction and infrastructure sectors, and was chief executive of Costain Group PLC between 2001 and 2005.
This followed executive positions in Welsh multi-utility Hyder plc, Alfred McAlpine plc and Tarmac Construction, where he represented the company on the Channel Tunnel board, following 20 years with John Laing Construction.
He has also served as a senior non-executive director of Scott Wilson Group plc, and as chairman of Silverdell Plc, Somero Plc and Beck and Pollitzer Limited.
com AR2016 70 Leadership continued BOARD Audit and Risk Nomination Safety and Group Tender and Remuneration Committee Committee Sustainability Investment Committee Committee Committee Monitors and reviews Reviews the Determines the pay the integrity of the composition and of the executive Monitors health and safety Assesses the viability and financial statements, balance of the Board Directors, and oversees practices across the pricing of major tenders, the relationship with toensure the right overall remuneration organisation to mitigate and monitors and approves the external auditor, structure and skills policy, strategy against harm to employees, key capital expenditure to and the Groups arein place to deliver and implementation.
and ensures other key ensure adequate returns.
sustainability issues such procedures and risk as integrity are reviewed management process.
Read more p78 Read more p75 Read more p78 Read more p79 Read more p84 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Leads the business and is responsible for its day-to-day management.
Roles Board and Committee meetings Summaries of the roles of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Procedures for Board meetings remain largely unchanged from and the Senior Independent Director are as follows: previous years.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on appropriate governance matters and for ensuring Chairman Philip Aiken a good information flow and that Board procedures are properly Ensuring effective strategic planning is undertaken by the followed.
He is available to individual Directors for advice on executive Directors Board procedures.
Ensuring corporate governance is properly maintained Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees Formally appraising the performance of the Group Chief held during the year and attendance of Directors thereat are set out Executive and reviewing with the Group Chief Executive his on page 71.
Outside the formal schedule of meetings, the nonviews on the performance of the other executive Directors executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on a number of occasions.
Meetings are normally held at one of the Providing leadership to the Board Companys London offices.
Acting as senior ambassador for the Company All non-executive Directors receive papers for every Committee Considering Board balance, composition and succession meeting and where not a member, have an open invitation to Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board and its Committees attend any Committee meeting.
A number of the Directors took Providing effective communication between the Board and thisopportunity during the year.
Board and Committee meetings typically take place over two consecutive days with the first day allocated to Committee Group Chief Executive Leo Quinn meetings and ending with a Focus presentation by a member Strategy development and the stewardship of physical, financial of the leadership team.
The agenda for the Board meetings will and human resources usually include a deep dive presentation from one of the business Group operational and financial performance units as well as focusing on key priorities for the Group, including: Executive leadership progress with the Build to Last transformation programme Health, safety and environmental performance strategy and budgets Corporate values and ethics operating structures, processes and costs Objective setting for the senior management team the Groups financial performance Organisational structure, succession and talent management legacy contract out-turns Major capital expenditure prioritisation and allocation of resources annual and interim financial statements Consideration of acquisitions, disposals and financing health and safety performance Stakeholder management.
significant human resources issues, including succession planning and diversity Senior Independent Director Iain Ferguson reports from the head of business integrity Acting as chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted consideration of issues relating to major disputes, proceedings Acting as a conduit to the Board for the communication of or other matters of potentially adverse effect on the shareholders concerns if other channels are not appropriate Groups reputation Ensuring that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback reports by non-executive Directors on site visits and on his performance.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016
