Directors Report Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Statement for 2016.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the continuing long-term success of BBA Aviation and the delivery of long-term, sustainable value creation for all of BBA Aviations stakeholders.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Opposite Our Chairman Sir Nigel Rudd at our London headquarters, 105 Wigmore Street 42 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report Governance is an important contributor to the success of the Group and we take pride not only in what we do but also in the way we conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives.
The Board is committed to ensuring that appropriate standards of governance are maintained throughout the Group.
I have updated the format of the Corporate Governance Statement this year to include an at-a-glance section, a section setting out our compliance with obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and a report on each of the Committees introduced by the Committee Chairman.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is covered in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56-78.
As reported last year, Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress joined the Board on 1 January 2016 and Nick Land retired at the AGM in May.
The Board considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital to the Group delivering its strategic objectives.
My role as Chairman has been to provide leadership to ensure that it is possible to make high-quality decisions.
I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring ongoing improvement in the Boards effectiveness.
I am supported by all the directors, but particularly by Susan Kilsby, as the Senior Independent Director.
Susan meets independently with the other directors and is available, if required, to meet with shareholders.
As a Board, and as individual directors, we strive to continuously improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in support of the Groups objective of delivering exceptional long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
The Board spent a significant proportion of its time in 2016 reviewing the integration of Landmark into Signature and considering the ASIG disposal.
As shareholders will recall, in 2015, Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit conducted an external Board evaluation.
For 2016, we again engaged Clare to support the evaluation and found this to be a very effective approach.
The evaluation is discussed on page 49.
The Companys remuneration policy seeks to align the interests of executive directors and shareholders and is structured to promote the long-term success of the Company.
We keep Group policies and procedures under regular review, bearing in mind the ever-evolving business and governance environment that we operate in, as well as drawing on the range of experience offered by Board members.
The Corporate Governance Statement that follows provides more details about our governance policies and procedures, about the structure of our Board Committees and the areas our meetings focus on.
Board members appreciate their interactions with shareholders and listen carefully to any comments.
I welcome your comments on this Corporate Governance Statement and on the 2016 Annual Report more generally.
