Governance Financial statements Statement of corporate governance Compliance with code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have complied with the provisions set out in the 2014 version of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Company has not, however, tendered for audit services in the past 10 years as explained on page 87.
The Code can be viewed on the www.
The governance section, together with the remuneration report, describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code and complied with its detailed provisions.
The board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The companys auditors have reviewed the companys compliance to the extent required by the UK listing rules for review by auditors of UK listed companies.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the main principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied by the group.
Governance framework The company operates through the main board, the managing agent board, the board of the reinsurance company that accepts reinsurance premiums ceded by the corporate member, Beazley Underwriting Limited and their board committees.
The group has established properly constituted audit and risk, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
There are terms of reference for each committee and details of their main responsibilities and activities in 2016 are set out on pages 83 to 91.
The board has also appointed an executive committee that is chaired by Andrew Horton and acts under delegated authority from the board.
The executive committee meets on a monthly basis and are responsible for managing all activities of the operational group.
The governance framework of the main board and its committees is shown in the diagram on the following page.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate with each having clearly defined responsibilities.
They maintain a close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the boards decision making process and the successful delivery of the groups strategy.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and the board committees are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters delegated to each committee and for which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the board committees can be found on www.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 77 Statement of corporate governance continued Company secretary Shareholders Christine Oldridge Key responsibilities The company secretarys Chairman responsibilities include ensuring Dennis Holt good information flows within the board and its committees and Key responsibilities between senior management and The chairman leads the board, managing constructive non-executive directors, as well as dialogue between executive and non-executive directors.
advising the board through the He is responsible for ensuring that the board discharges Chairman on all governance matters.
The board Key responsibilities Leadership, strategic aims, risks, values and standards.
Chief executive Chairman Dennis Holt Andrew Horton Members Key responsibilities Adrian Cox Christine LaSala Martin Bride The chief executive is responsible Andrew Horton Clive Washbourn Neil Maidment for the implementation and delivery Sir Andrew Likierman George Blunden Robert Stuchbery of the strategy agreed by the board 1 Angela Crawford-Ingle John Sauerland Vincent Sheridan and the day to day management of Catherine Woods the business.
Audit and risk committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Executive committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Angela Crawford-Ingle Dennis Holt Sir Andrew Likierman Andrew Horton Members Members Members Members Catherine Woods Sir Andrew Likierman George Blunden Adrian Cox Christine LaSala George Blunden John Sauerland Adrian Lewers George Blunden Andrew Pryde Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Robert Stuchbery Anthony Hobkinson The nomination committee is The remuneration committee 1 Vincent Sheridan Clive Washbourn focused on evaluating the board of ensures that remuneration Dan Jones Key responsibilities directors, ensuring an appropriate arrangements support the strategic Ian Fantozzi The audit and risk committee assists balance of skills, considering and aims of the business and enable Mark Bernacki the board of directors in fulfilling its recommending board and committee the recruitment, motivation and Martin Bride oversight responsibilities for the candidates and considering board retention of senior executives while Mike Donovan financial reporting process, the succession.
complying with the requirements of Neil Maidment system of internal control, the audit regulatory and governance bodies, Patrick Hartigan process and the companys process satisfying the expectations of Penny Malik for monitoring compliance with laws shareholders and remaining and regulations and the code of consistent with the expectations Key responsibilities conduct.
It also ensures that of the wider employee population.
The executive committee manages an effective risk management all operational activities of the group process exists in the major regulated and acts under the powers delegated subsidiaries and that the Beazley by the board.
It has responsibility for group has an effective framework proposing strategic initiatives and and process for managing its risks.
group syndicate business plans to the board as well as for reviewing the risk management framework and oversight of the groups subcommittees and business functions.
1 Vincent Sheridan resigned from the Beazley plc board and audit and risk committee with effect from 31 December 2016.
com Governance Financial statements The board The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes: inter alia, strategic matters: statutory matters intended to generate and preserve value over the longer term: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, officers and auditors: and appointments of committees and setting of their terms of reference.
It is responsible for: the review of group performance against budgets: approving material contracts: determining authority levels within which management is required to operate: reviewing the groups annual forecasts: and approval of the groups corporate business plans, including capital adequacy and the Own Risk Solvency Assessment.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in pursuing its strategic objectives.
To this end, the board is responsible for the capital strategy, including the groups Solvency II internal model.
The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Dennis Holt, together with seven independent non-executive directors, of whom George Blunden is the senior independent non-executive director, and five executive directors, of whom Andrew Horton is chief executive.
The non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
George Blunden, who has served a term in excess of six years, continues to bring strong challenge and insight to the board and its committees and his appointment was extended for a further three years at the 2016 AGM, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
The nomination committee carried out a rigorous assessment of George Blundens continuing independence, taking into account the length of his tenure on the boards of both Beazley plc and Beazley Furlonge Ltd, and concluded that he remained independent.
As senior independent director George will, if required, deputise for the chairman.
He is available to talk to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns or if there are any unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to his attention.
John Sauerland, Christine LaSala and Robert Stuchbery were appointed to the board during 2016 on 5 May, 1 July and 11 August respectively.
Rolf Tolle, Padraic OConnor and Vincent Sheridan resigned from the board on 11 March 2016, 24 March and 31 December 2016 respectively.
In accordance with the code, the board has recommended that all directors should submit themselves for election or re-election on an annual basis and as such all directors will stand for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographies of current board members appear in the board of directors section of this report.
The biographies indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well defined operational and management structure is in place and the roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly defined.
Board meeting attendance The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
In 2016, in addition to the five regular board meetings, there were further meetings to consider the Q3 2016 interim statement and director changes.
Attendance at the meetings was high.
All the directors also attend an annual strategy day.
The remuneration, nomination, and audit and risk committees had additional ad hoc meetings with full attendance.
The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 79 Statement of corporate governance continued Attendance at the regular board and committee meetings is set out in the table below: Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee No.
Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended George P Blunden 5 5 6 6 4 4 5 5 Martin L Bride 5 5 Adrian P Cox 5 5 Angela D Crawford-Ingle 5 5 6 6 Dennis Holt 5 5 5 5 D Andrew Horton 5 5 Christine LaSala 3 3 3 3 Sir J Andrew Likierman 5 5 4 4 5 5 Padraic J OConnor 1 1 1 1 Neil P Maidment 5 5 1 Vincent J Sheridan 5 4 6 5 John P Sauerland 3 3 3 3 Robert A Stuchbery 2 2 3 3 Rolf A W Tolle 1 1 1 1 2 Clive A Washbourn 5 3 Catherine Woods 5 5 6 6 1 Vincent Sheridan was unable to attend the board and audit and risk committee meetings on 6 December 2016 due to a scheduling conflict.
2 Clive Washbourn was unable to attend the board meeting on 4 May 2016 as he was on sabbatical and the meeting on 29 September due to illness.
Where a director joined or stood down from the board or board committee during the year only the number of meetings following appointment or before standing down are shown.
Board discussions during the year At each scheduled meeting the board receives reports from the chief executive and finance director on the performance and results of the group and also receives reports from the chief underwriting officer and the chief risk officer and any board committees following their meetings.
In addition the board receives updates from the group operating functions on major projects and corporate governance matters.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time for consideration and debate of all matters.
During the year, the board has spent time particularly on: review of strategic initiatives and Brexit impacts: review of the competitive landscape: discussions over prioritisation of investment expenditure: solvency II reporting: review of risk management framework, including risk appetite: careful monitoring of market conditions prior to and following the UK referendum and consideration of the implications of its result: understanding the EU Market Abuse Regulation: ORSA: discussion on capital position and dividends: cyber and cyber security: new acquisitions: review of developments in corporate governance and receipt of key legal and regulatory updates: and discussion of the outcome of the board evaluation and effectiveness review and agreement of improvement opportunities.
com Governance Financial statements Training, information and support New directors will receive appropriate induction training when they join the board of Beazley plc.
They will be asked to complete a skills and knowledge assessment and the company secretary with talent management will arrange and coordinate the appropriate training.
There are a number of modules available to the directors which are regularly reviewed to ensure they meet best practice.
Where appropriate, mentoring will be provided to new directors by an external provider.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have access to an electronic information repository to support their activities.
During 2016 the board continued to support the maintenance and development of Beazleys information security programme to address changing and emerging cyber security threats.
All directors allocate sufficient time to the company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment for all the non-executive directors set out the expected time commitment and they agree that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, on the basis that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Board performance evaluation Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is required to undertake formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and for this to be externally facilitated every three years.
In 2015 an assessment of the effectiveness of the board and its committees was externally facilitated by Deloitte LLP.
The board considered the results of the assessment and confirmed that there were no significant matters to be addressed.
A self-assessment of the board and its committees was carried out in 2016 as described in the nomination committee report on page 90.
Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained in the statement of directors responsibilities and the independent auditors report, together with the statement of the directors on going concern in the directors report.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant compliance issues and risks facing the group.
All significant known risks are captured in the Beazley risk register and monitored on a monthly basis.
The risk register and the related internal capital assessment process are subject to review, challenge and approval by the board.
The board agreed the 2016 risk appetite for the group at the end of 2015 and, throughout 2016, the board has considered and acted upon the information presented to it in order to make risk based decisions against the 2016 risk appetite.
Key components of the risk management framework include monthly control self assessments and six monthly risk assessments, with ad hoc risk assessments being conducted when required.
These matters have been considered by the executive risk and regulatory committee each month and the audit and risk committee and board quarterly.
In addition, the board has considered the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report in the past year.
This risk management framework has provided the board with an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the risks to the company, and accords with the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting.
The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within the risk appetite set by the board.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 81 Statement of corporate governance continued The key procedures that the board has established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of this size include: day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors: review and analysis by the various group committees of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting, as prescribed by the board: review of financial, operational and assurance reports from management: and review of any significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
The board therefore confirms that it has, during 2016, reviewed the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and continue to operate up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Further information on the role of the audit and risk committee is set out on page 83 and further information on risk management at Beazley is set out in the risk management report.
Shareholder engagement The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report are available from www.
com and, where elected or on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to stakeholders who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations, attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
com Governance Financial statements Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee Membership and attendance Attendance at full Appointment meetings during 2016 Angela Crawford-Ingle 27 March 2013 Chair 6 6 George Blunden 1 October 2010 6 6 Christine LaSala 1 July 2016 3 3 1 Vincent Sheridan 9 June 2009 5 6 Robert Stuchbery 11 August 2016 3 3 1 Rolf Tolle 6 December 2010 1 1 Catherine Woods 11 March 2016 6 6 1 Vincent Sheridan and Rolfe Tolle resigned from the committee on 31 December and Angela Crawford-Ingle 10 March 2016 respectively.
We were able to bring on board As part of the appointments process The board has delegated Catherine Woods, Christine LaSala and the nomination committee reviewed oversight of audit and risk Bob Stuchbery who bring a diverse range of the membership of the committee matters to the audit and risk experience and insight to the committee.
Taken as a whole, the committee which currently Throughout the year we maintained committee has an appropriate balance continuity within the committee and of skills, including recent and relevant comprises Angela Crawfordthis enabled us to carry out our full financial experience as required by the Ingle committee chairman, range of responsibilities.
All George Blunden, Catherine committee members are independent Woods, Christine LaSala and Details of the members financial, non-executives.
accounting and other relevant financial Bob Stuchbery.
experience are given in their biographies There is representation from the plc under board of directors on pages 74 audit and risk committee on the groups During the year the committee to 75. regulated entity audit and or risk has remained focused on its key committees which further demonstrates responsibilities relating to financial The audit and risk committee is required our proactive approach to understanding reporting, internal controls, compliance to meet at least quarterly, with meetings our control and risk environment at all and risk management: working scheduled at appropriate intervals in the levels of the organisation.
collaboratively with management and reporting and audit cycle.
Additional internal and external assurance providers meetings are held as required.
In 2016 Responsibilities of the committee to make an effective assessment of the there were a total of six meetings, reflecting The committees main audit-related governance framework.
The committee the workload of the committee during responsibilities are detailed in the section has received and challenged a variety the year.
below: of information in order to ensure that the internal risk and control framework is Only members of the committee have The primary role of the audit and risk appropriate for the group.
The control and the right to attend meetings: however committee in relation to financial risk environment is continuing to change standing invitations are extended to the reporting is to monitor the integrity of the and the committee is working actively chief executive officer, the group finance financial statements of the group and any with the group to ensure a robust internal director, the chief underwriting officer, formal announcements relating to the control and risk environment is maintained.
the chief risk officer, the head of internal groups financial performance, and to audit and the head of compliance.
Other review significant financial reporting At the same time we have considered a non-members may be invited to attend judgements.
The committee has number of significant issues including the all or part of any meeting as and when continued to approach its review of the increasingly complex regulatory reporting appropriate.
The company secretary annual report as a whole with focus on environment, potential impact of the acts as secretary to the committee.
behalf of the board on considering the UK referendum, business growth in the The internal and external auditors attend concept of fair, balanced and US primarily in our cyber book and our committee meetings and regularly meet understandable.
We have challenged proposed tender strategy to rotate our in private with the committee.
In addition ourselves to ensure the key messages current auditors.
the chairman of the audit and risk about the performance of the business committee has regular contact with the are delivered in a manner consistent with The committee has seen a number of external and internal auditors throughout our own understanding and interpretation changes during the year.
Vincent Sheridan the year and members of the committee of the information we receive.
and Rolf Tolle resigned and I would like met individually with the Central Bank of to take this opportunity to thank them Ireland and the Prudential Regulation for their contribution.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 83 Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued Specific committee responsibilities are Principal activities c Compliance set out below: The principal activities undertaken by the review the arrangements by which committee in discharging its responsibilities employees of the company may, in a Financial and narrative reporting in 2016 are described below.
confidence, raise concerns about monitor the integrity of the companys possible improprieties in matters of financial statements and any other a Significant financial statement financial reporting or other areas: formal announcements relating to reportingissues review procedures and systems relating the companys financial performance: The significant financial statement to fraud detection, prevention of review the annual report before reporting issues, along with the significant bribery and money laundering: and submission to, and approval by, the matters and accounting judgements that review the regular reports from the board, and before clearance by the the committee considered during the year compliance officer and keep under external auditors.
This covers critical under review, are set out below.
review the adequacy and effectiveness accounting policies, significant financial of the groups compliance function.
reporting judgements, the going concern i Valuation of insurance liabilities As further explained in note 1 to the assumption, compliance with accounting d Internal audit standards and other requirements under financial statements, the groups policy recommend the appointment or is to hold sufficient provisions, including applicable law and regulations and termination of appointment of the head governance codes applicable to the those to cover claims which have been of internal audit: incurred but not reported IBNR to meet financial statements: and monitor and review the effectiveness advise the board on whether, taken as a all liabilities as they fall due.
Similar to of the companys internal audit function: 2015, the past year has seen a relatively whole, the annual report is fair, balanced and and understandable and provides the benign claims environment in terms of review and approve the internal audit large risk, catastrophe exposed classes of information necessary for shareholders plan, charter and ensure the function to assess the companys performance, business.
In this regard, our consideration has the necessary resources and business model and strategy.
of catastrophe losses has therefore been access to information.
focused on developments in relation b Internal control and risk management to the more significant catastrophes e External audit systems of previous years.
recommend to the board, to be put review the companys internal financial to the shareholders for approval, the controls and the companys internal The audit and risk committee receives appointment, reappointment and control and risk management systems: regular reports from both the internal removal of the external auditors: advise the board on the companys group actuary and the external audit team, oversee the relationship with the risk management framework, which as the output of independent projections external auditor including planning, includes the risk management are reviewed at key reporting quarters.
reviewing of findings and assessing objectives, risk appetite, risk culture In the latter part of the year, the group overall effectiveness: and and assignment of risk management actuary has reported both informally and approve auditors remuneration responsibilities: formally on the results of the third quarter for audit, assurance and non-audit review risk reports and management reserving process, which the committee services.
information to enable a clear considers to be a key control as this understanding of the key risks and process provides a level of informed f Actuaries controls in the business: independent challenge for the reserve recommend to the board the review any breaches of risk appetite position.
To support the year end view, appointment and termination of any and the adequacy of proposed action: the committee has received a detailed firm of consulting actuaries used for review the identification of future risks, paper in support of the level of margin the provision of Syndicate Actuarial including considering emerging trends held within technical reserves in the Opinions and or review of insurance and future risk strategy: and groups statement of financial position, reserving: and review the remit of the risk which formed the basis for a robust monitor performance, determine management function and ensure discussion.
Management confirmed that independence and approve fees.
it has adequate resources and they remain satisfied that the outstanding appropriate access to information claims reserves included in the financial Full details of the terms of reference to enable it to perform its function statements provide an appropriate margin of the committee are available at effectively.
over projected ultimate claims costs to www.
com allow for the risks and uncertainties within the portfolio, and the committee was satisfied that there were no errors or inconsistencies that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
com Governance Financial statements The external auditor has also used the The committee has received updates iv Recoverability of insurance receivables groups data to re-project the reserves and commentary from management in Management has continued the progress using its own methodologies and the relation to updates from both Lloyds of made in the prior year in respect of aged comparison presented to the committee London and the Central Bank of Ireland debt analysis and reporting, and we note has provided an additional level of in respect of Solvency II reporting dates that management continues to focus challenge to the result.
On the basis and requirements as well as associated attention and resource on our processes of its audit work, the auditor reported audit requirements.
The committee also and reporting of aged debt as the group no misstatements that were material considered the appropriateness of the continues to grow.
The analysis reviewed in the context of the financial statements groups proposed governance processes in 2016 did not identify any material as a whole.
instances of default in relation to our insurance debtors.
On the basis of the information provided On the basis of the reporting received by the group actuary throughout the year and reviewed during the last 12 months, On this basis, the committee is satisfied and at the year end, the consistent the audit and risk committee remains that insurance receivables are materially application of Beazleys reserving satisfied that the estimation and control correct and that no adjustment is philosophy, and the review work carried processes deployed by the group are required at 31 December 2016. out by our external auditor, the committee appropriate and leave us well placed is satisfied that the reserves held on to meet the increasingly challenging v Recoverability of reinsurance assets the group statement of financial position reporting deadlines under Solvency II.
The committee received confirmation from at 31 December 2016 are reasonable.
management that the majority of Beazleys iii Valuation of financial assets at fair value reinsurance receivables are due from highly ii Financial close process The board is responsible for setting the rated institutions.
Based on previous The audit and risk committee continues investment strategy, defining the risk experience, the committee has not noted to focus on the groups close and appetite and overseeing the internal any instances where poor quality reinsurers estimation processes generally, and and outsourced providers via the chief have led to a material financial loss and is the related control carried out by the investment officer.
The committee receives comfortable with the monitoring processes business and specifically the finance updates from the group finance director management have described and put in team.
The close process is particularly and or the chief investment officer and it place to ensure this continues.
important in the current environment has reported for 2016 that the investment where insurers are being required to portfolio is in line with the board approved Considering management updates and adhere to increasingly tight regulatory risk appetite and that carrying values of supported by the external auditors report reporting timelines and the audit and the portfolio as at 31 December 2016 on the output of their work over assessing risk committee is committed to ensuring are appropriate.
Committee members the recoverability of the groups that the robust nature of our control are invited to and regularly attend the reinsurance assets, the committee is environment is not compromised during investment committee.
satisfied that the judgements applied this period of change.
by management in making provision No misstatements that were material in for bad debts are appropriate.
During the year and at year end, we the context of the financial statements received updates from management on as a whole were identified and the vi Dividends, going concern and viability the level of estimations used in our close committee is satisfied with the approach During key reporting periods, management process and the controls carried out to employed by management in valuing outlined to the committee in detail their review these estimates retrospectively.
the financial assets at fair value on the support for the basis of preparation As mentioned in note 1 to the financial balance sheet at 31 December 2016. adopted in the financial statements and statements, IBNR represents the most any statements around the future viability crucial estimate included within the of the group.
In addition, the committee groups financial position and our claims considers the appropriateness of reserves are specifically discussed in managements dividend strategy of point a i on the previous page.
Aside from growing the ordinary dividend each year claims, the audit committee also reviewed and the appropriateness of applying process and control information around this strategy in the current year.
expenses, actuarial premium projections and other premium adjustments, investments and other key income statement and balance sheet captions.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 85 Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued The committee reviews detailed overview of key reporting and risk profiles: The committee and the projections of future cash flows, profit regulatory updates, including updates risk committees of the subsidiary forecasts and capital requirements under on accounting standards, changes boards have reviewed Beazleys risk various scenarios, including scenarios in tax legislation and changes in profiles, which are focused risk stressed in terms of claims frequency regulatory requirements: assessments of specific topics.
In the current year, we managements accounting approach in In 2016, the committee received a also considered, and discussed with relation to the scheme of arrangement review of cyber risk aimed at ensuring management, the impact of the result executed by the group during the year: our suite of realistic disaster scenarios of the EU referendum in June.
We also enhancements to key process and are appropriate.
There was also a consider the appropriateness of reconciliation procedures, in particular number of other operational risk managements viability statement and in relation to technical balances due profiles presented which supported the the period over which this analysis is to from internal coverholders: committees oversight of the on-going performed.
The committee is satisfied compliance, financial crime and business processes.
by the level of analysis presented during assurance reporting including risk emerging risk: The committee the year, and the related approach taken incident information: supported the identification of strategic and statements made in the groups quarterly reserving and actuarial data: and emerging risks which were key external reporting.
and discussed at the board meeting in the consideration of emerging risks May 2016 and have been subsequently vii Tax and the processes and controls in monitored and reported in the quarterly The audit and risk committee discussed place to mitigate these risks.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment managements updates on the continually ORSA : developing tax environment and in Committee meetings are scheduled to oversight of the control environment: particular reviewed managements ensure that they support the financial and The committee has received a quarterly approach to Diverted Profits Tax in regulatory reporting timetables and the consolidated assurance report which the UK and developments in this area internal audit and risk cycle.
provides commentary on the status generally.
The committee is satisfied of the control environment with that the approach taken by management Function updates perspective from the business, risk see note 9 at the balance sheet date The Beazley plc board has delegated a management, compliance and internal is reasonable.
number of oversight responsibilities to the audit.
It also includes entries from audit and risk committee in relation to the the risk incident log: viii Intangible asset valuation risk management framework, compliance, reverse stress testing: The committee The audit and risk committee received an internal audit and external audit.
has received the results of the reverse overview of managements valuation of stress testing exercise, which explores intangibles.
The audit and risk committee The work undertaken and key matters what would have to happen for the discussed the carrying value of goodwill, considered during the year in these areas group to be unviable and has been able in particular relating to the groups are set out below: to provide assurance to the board that life, accident and health division and this work has been performed with is satisfied that the underlying a Risk management the appropriate level of depth and assumptions used by management in To assist the board, the committee, expertise: and respect of future profitability and cash supported by the risk committees of the oversight of the internal model: The flows were reasonable.
The committee subsidiary boards, receives and reviews committee and the risk committees also reviewed managements accounting reports from the risk management of the subsidiary boards have reviewed function focusing on the following areas: for movements in other intangibles regular reports associated with the during the year and is satisfied that risk appetite: The committee has internal model.
These have included monitored the actual risk profile managements accounting for these a standing report on internal model intangibles appears appropriate.
against risk appetite throughout 2016 output, and a validation report and can confirm that Beazley plc has featuring both internal and b Other updates been operating within risk appetite as independent validation and themed During 2016, in addition to the financial at 31 December 2016.
The committee reviews, for example, on the approach reporting matters mentioned above has also reviewed the proposed 2017 used to aggregate risk.
These the following items were key topics risk appetite and commended it to the assessments have supported the of discussion for the committee: Beazley plc board for approval: boards use of the internal model: and oversight of the reporting and control risk assessment: The committee has quarterly ORSA: The committee has processes and procedures relating performed a review of the groups risk received a quarterly ORSA report and to the increased Solvency II reporting profile to ensure it covers the complete has reviewed it as part of the quality requirements: universe of risk and that all major assurance process before commending underlying risks are visible and are it to the board.
being monitored: 86 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Governance Financial statements In addition, the risk committees and or b Compliance d External audit boards of the groups regulated subsidiaries The group head of compliance has direct i Audit tendering receive more locally-focused compliance access to the committee members and Following in depth consideration during reports which are specific to those entities.
2016, the board have committed to changing group auditor no later than for c Internal audit To assist the board the committee the 2019 financial year.
Given KPMGs The groups internal audit function reports receives reports and updates from the length of service group auditor since directly to the committee, in addition the compliance function on various issues 2002 and because the board have head of internal audit has direct access to including, but not limited to, regulatory not sought to formally tender KPMGs the committee chairman and is accountable developments, routine and non-routine services the committee requested to the committee.
The committee has interactions with the groups regulators, KPMG to submit a non-competitive reviewed the effectiveness of the function any significant instances of nontender outlining their approach, value and remains satisfied that the internal compliance with regulatory or internal proposition and areas of focus over audit function had sufficient resources compliance requirements.
the next two years up until their rotation.
during the year to undertake its duties.
Following careful consideration of KPMGs During 2016, the committee: proposal, the assessment of the auditors During 2016, the committee: monitored the implementation of the effectiveness through the 2016 cycle as considered the results of all internal 2016 compliance plan: part of the committees routine activities audit reports and monitored the reviewed and approved the 2017 and taking into account the operational progress of the business in addressing annual compliance plan, including the challenges the business faces which are the findings of internal audit: compliance monitoring programme: in progress such as Solvency II reporting monitored the implementation of the reviewed changes in the regulatory and major finance system developments, 2016 internal audit plan: environment applicable to Beazley: the committee decided that it would be reviewed and approved the basis for received updates on relationships with beneficial to retain KPMG for the time audit planning and approved the 2017 key group regulators, and oversight of being.
It is therefore proposed to put the internal audit plan: regulatory requests: audit out to tender no later than 2018 to reviewed and approved the internal provided oversight to regulatory allow new auditors to take over for the audit charter: responses to corporate developments: 2019 reporting period.
reviewed and approved the internal reviewed updates from the Money audit budget for 2017: Laundering Reporting Officer on the ii Assessing the effectiveness of the received and reviewed an overall adequacy and effectiveness of the externalauditor summary assessment of 2016 internal companys anti-money laundering The committee places great emphasis audit activity: and systems and controls: on ensuring there are high standards of monitored on-going amendments to the provided oversight of the progress of quality and effectiveness in the external internal audit functions activities in the business in addressing identified audit process.
Audit quality is assessed light of emerging best practice in the enhancements to compliance throughout the year, with a focus on financial sector.
requirements: strong audit governance and the quality approved the group policies and of the team.
The effectiveness of the controls in respect of whistleblowing, audit is assessed through discussion anti-bribery and corruption, and fraud: throughout the year, taking into account and considerations such as: received updates on the structure reviewing the quality and scope of the and effectiveness of the companys audit planning and its responsiveness compliance function.
to changes in the business: monitoring of the auditors independence: In reviewing the effectiveness of the considering the level of challenge function the audit and risk committee evidenced in discussions and reporting: remained satisfied that the compliance and function had sufficient resources during discussing the output of the FRCs the year to undertake its duties.
Audit Quality Review with our auditors.
These considerations are taken in to account by the committee when determining whether to reappoint the external auditor.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 87 Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee continued KPMG is a panel member eligible to iii Non-audit services provide services under our cyber breach The audit and risk committees responsibility response service.
To date KPMG has not to monitor and review the objectivity been called upon to provide any services and independence of the external auditor under this arrangement and the is supported by a policy that we have committee receives regular updates to developed in relation to the provision monitor the level of activity and to ensure of non-audit services by the auditor.
conflicts of interest do not occur.
The objective is to ensure that the None of the non-audit services provided provision of such services does not impair are considered by the audit and risk the external auditors objectivity.
The policy committee to affect the auditors specifically disallows certain activities independence or objectivity.
from being provided by the auditor, such as bookkeeping and accounting services, Committee effectiveness internal actuarial services and executive The committee considers its remuneration services.
The policy requires effectiveness regularly.
An assessment consideration and pre-approval for all was facilitated in November 2016 using other material services such as due an online survey completed by members diligence assistance, tax services and of the committee.
The review concluded advice on accounting and audit matters.
that the committee was operating The committee reviews the terms of such effectively and efficiently and there were proposed services to ensure they have no major issues highlighted for attention.
It was noted there had been an increase in the work load of the committee driven The committee receives a report from the by Solvency II and other regulatory external auditors twice a year setting out requirements and additional training all non-audit services undertaken, so that may be useful.
it can monitor the types of services being provided, and the fees incurred for that Fair, balanced and understandable work.
The aim is to limit the total spend assessment on non-audit services to a maximum of It is a key compliance requirement the annual audit fee, unless it is deemed of the groups financial statements to that not doing so is in shareholders be fair, balanced and understandable.
interest from an efficiency and The annual report is prepared following effectiveness point of view.
a well documented process and is performed in parallel with the formal The split between audit and non-audit fees process undertaken by the external for the year under review is disclosed in auditor.
The committee has reviewed note 6 to the financial statements.
In the a report presenting the approach taken year the audit fees for the statutory audit during the preparation of the annual of the consolidated financial statements report.
Following its review, the committee were $1.0m 2015: $1.1m while fees is satisfied that the annual report is fair, paid for non audit and assurance services balanced and understandable, and were $1.2m 2015: $0.8m.
Fees for non provides the information necessary for audit and assurance services include work shareholders and other stakeholders related to the accounts and regulatory to assess the companys position and reporting of the syndicates managed by performance, business model and strategy, Beazley.
Also included, as a one-off in and has advised the board accordingly.
2016, is reporting accountant work in relation to the change of domicile and CMA Order 2014 statement of compliance comfort letters to support the debt The committee confirms that during 2016 issuance.
Both of these are assignments the group complied with the mandatory normally performed by the incumbent audit processes and audit committee auditors.
responsibilities provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 as presented in this report.
com Governance Financial statements Statement of corporate governance continued Remuneration committee Membership and attendance Attendance at full Appointment meetings during 2016 Sir Andrew Likierman 25 March 2015 4 4 George Blunden 1 January 2011 4 4 Padraic OConnor 13 March 2009 1 1 1 John Sauerland 11 May 2016 3 3 1 Where a director joined or stood down from the board or board committee during the year only the number of meetings following appointment or before standing down are shown.
Sir Andrew Likierman Key activities in 2016 Currently the membership During 2016 the committee: oftheremuneration committee reviewed the key aspects of the comprises Sir Andrew Likierman remuneration policy, and oversaw chairman, George Blunden and its implementation and application: satisfied itself that the current John Sauerland.
remuneration structure is appropriate to attract and retain talented people: Responsibilities of the committee considered the chief risk officers The committees main responsibilities report that confirmed that the design of are to, inter alia: remuneration promotes appropriate set the remuneration policy for the risk behaviour throughout the group for approval at the annual organisation.
In addition, the analysis general meeting.
The objective of such considered the performance of the policy shall be to ensure that members control environment, profit related pay of the executive management of the targets, calculation of the bonus pool, company are provided with appropriate share awards, a suite of risk metrics for incentives to encourage enhanced each solvency II member of staff and performance and are, in a fair and any individual who has created a higher responsible manner, rewarded for their than expected level of risk: individual contributions to the success ensured incentives continued to be of the company: appropriate and to align company recommend and where appropriate and shareholders: approve targets for performance approved the grant of share awards related pay schemes and seek under the groups deferred, retention shareholder approval for any long and LTIP plans: term incentive arrangements: considered the salary and bonus recommend and approve the awards for 2016 for executive remuneration of the chairman directors, heads of control functions, of the company: material risk takers and other officers: recommend the remuneration of the reviewed remuneration policies in light of chief executive, the executive directors, emerging requirements for Solvency II: the direct reports to the chief approved the chairmans fees: and executive, the company secretary and reviewed the executive director such other members of the executive employment contracts.
management as it is designated to consider.
No director or manager shall Further information on the work of the be involved in any decisions as to his remuneration committee is set out in or her own remuneration: the directors remuneration report.
obtain reliable, up-to-date information about remuneration in other companies: and appoint and review the performance of remuneration committee consultants, currently Deloitte LLP.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 89 Statement of corporate governance continued Nomination committee Membership and attendance Attendance at full Appointment meetings during 2016 Dennis Holt 21 July 2011 5 5 George Blunden 1 January 2010 5 5 Sir Andrew Likierman 25 March 2015 5 5 Dennis Holt The nomination committee meets at least We have a defined policy and strategy The nomination committee twice annually and at such other times that will enable us to: ischaired byDennisHolt during the year as is necessary to nurture diverse individuals across all andcurrently comprises discharge its duties.
In 2016 there were areas of the business and encourage GeorgeBlunden and five scheduled meetings, reflecting the them to grow into senior positions workload of the committee during the year.
Only members of the committee have the develop plans on how to best support right to attend meetings, however other diversity in a way that is both locally Responsibilities of the committee individuals, such as the chief executive relevant and globally impactful: The committees main responsibilities and external advisers, may be invited to support, mentor and encourage are to, inter alia: attend for all or part of any meeting.
individuals from diverse backgrounds regularly review the structure, size to grow and develop within Beazley: and composition including the skills, The specific responsibilities and duties have leadership and sponsorship of knowledge, experience and diversity of the committee are set out in its terms our vision at the most senior level required of the board compared to its of reference which were updated in of our organisation: current and projected position: July 2016 to include specific responsibility regularly review our employment give full consideration to succession to keep under review the leadership policies and practices.
We expect planning for executive and non-executive needs of the organisation, both executive our people to work with us to further directors and in particular for the key and non-executive, with a view to ensuring enhance our diversity objectives: and roles of chairman and chief executive, the continued ability of the organisation ensure all employees receive equality senior executives and any other member to compete effectively in the market place.
of opportunity in recruitment, training, of the senior management that it is The terms of reference are available to development, promotion and relevant to consider: download from the companys website.
ensure the directors have the required skills and competence: Policy on gender, diversity and inclusion review annually the time required from We believe having a diverse and inclusive non-executive directors: workplace will support our vision for review the results of the board growth and outperforming the market.
performance evaluation process that We continually review our approach to relate to the composition and skills diversity and our aim is to have nurtured and competencies of the board and diverse employees across the business ensure an appropriate response to who are given the tools and opportunities development needs: to progress their career within Beazley.
recommend to the board appointments We believe employing individuals with to the role of senior independent wider perspectives and from a broader director and chairman as well as skill base will lead to a more dynamic, membership of board committees: and innovative, responsive organisation in recommend, if appropriate, all directors touch with changes and developments for re-election by shareholders under in our business environment.
the annual re-election provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
com Governance Financial statements The committee has agreed the Key activities in 2016 establishment of goals for gender Tasks which the committee carried out diversity for both the board and the in 2016 were to: broader organisation.
The board approved recommend the appointment of three goals for gender diversity for the Beazley additional non-executive directors.
plc board of two female members by AGM The appointments to the board were 2016, and a third female member by AGM made on merit and against objective 2017.
This goal has been achieved through criteria.
For the recruitment process, the appointments of Catherine Woods and the committee was assisted by Christine LaSala.
Female representation Korn Ferry for Bob Stuchbery and on the board has gone from zero to three Spencer Stuart for John Sauerland.
within the last five years.
The committee Both of these search firms are wholly has established 2020 goals for increasing independent of the company and of diversity across the wider organisation the group.
No consultant was used through a series of initiatives looking at in the recruitment of Christine LaSala: recruitment, development and succession.
review of the performance of Having achieved our goal of having three management by inviting all nonfemale directors by the 2017 AGM, the executive directors to attend a committee has established new goals nomination committee meeting of a minimum of 35% female senior to review the performance of the managers within the organisation by 2020 executive management team: and of 33% female board members at consider the board and committee group level by 2021. succession plans: assess the collective skills and The 2016 board review was overseen competency of the board and consider by the committee and was facilitated in the proposed reappointment of November 2016 using a survey completed directors: by board and committee members.
No ensure that director development plans material matters were identified and the were implemented and that the board committee will oversee the implementation collectively received relevant training: of an action plan to further strengthen the and boards overall effectiveness in 2017. ensure board members were able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
