GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report The Committee is an important component of the governance framework of the Group, focussed on financial reporting, risk management and internal and external audit.
Paul Hampden Smith Chairman of the Audit Committee Two of the meetings during the year were also Introduction attended by representatives from the external Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the Audit Committee auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, who also met with the Committee report for the year ended the Committee independently of management.
The Committee is an important Membership No issues were raised during these discussions.
component of the governance framework I also had further discussions, independently Date appointed to of the Group, with its principal activities of each other, with the Group Finance Director Director Committee focussed on the integrity of financial reporting, and KPMG and reported relevant information 1August 2013, appointed the quality and effectiveness of internal to other members of the Committee.
Paul Hampden Smith Chairman on 1 February controls, risk management and reviewing the Chairman 2014 In advance of Committee meetings, detailed performance of the external auditor.
Mike Toms 1 February 2009 papers are prepared both by management and KPMG, thereby allowing informed discussions John Cuthbert 15 January 2010 Committee membership and decisions to take place.
Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 andmeetings The Committee comprises four independent Responsibilities and terms of Main focus in 2015 16 non-executive directors and I confirm that reference Reviewed annual report and accounts between them they have an appropriate and relevant combination of experience The main responsibilities of the Committee are: Reviewed and assessed systems and and knowledge.
Furthermore the Code controls in place to assess the significant requires that the Committee has at least one financial reporting judgements 1.
Financial reporting member with recent and relevant financial Reviewed and assessed internal To monitor the integrity of the financial experience and the Board has confirmed controls and risk management systems statements of the Group and any other that they believe that I, as Chairman of the formal announcements relating to the Oversaw creation of risk and internal Committee, satisfy these criteria.
The Board Groups financial performance, reviewing and audit function has also confirmed that they are confident that reporting to the Board on significant financial the collective experience of the Committee Updated the Bribery Act Policy and reporting issues and judgements contained members enables them to act effectively as an Procedure in them, whilst having regard to matters Audit Committee.
Further information on the communicated by the external auditor.
Updated the Whistleblowing Procedure experience and knowledge of the Committee Monitored performance and members is included in the directors To review and challenge where necessary, independence of external auditor biographies on pages 40 to 41. the actions and judgements of management, in relation to the preliminary and interim Focus areas for 2016 17 In line with the Terms of Reference, there were announcements and Annual Report and three scheduled meetings of the Committee Review annual report and accounts Accounts, before submission to the Board.
during the year and all members were in Review and assess systems and controls attendance at each meeting.
Where the Committee is not satisfied with any in place to assess the significant financial aspect of the proposed financial reporting by The Group Finance Director and Group reporting judgements management, it shall report its views to the Finance Manager attend meetings by invitation Review and assess risk and internal Board.
and were present at all meetings during the controls year.
The Committee is supported by the Group Where requested by the Board, the Monitor performance and General Counsel and Company Secretary who Committee should review the content of the independence of external auditor acts as secretary to the Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts and advise the Review the effect of adopting IFRS 15 Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 16 Leases on the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Groups financial statements business model and strategy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 49 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued 3.
External audit Responsibilities and terms of Main activities during the year To oversee the process for selecting the reference continued The main activities performed by the external auditor, including approval of their Committee during the year in each area 2.
Internal control and risk management terms of engagement and negotiation and ofresponsibility are described below: agreement of theirremuneration.
To review the Groups internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by 1.
Financial reporting To consider the appointment re-appointment aseparate Board risk committee composed of the external auditor and to assess the Reviewed the final draft of the Annual of independent directors or by the Board independence of the external auditor, Report and Accounts, together with a itself, the Groups internal control, internal ensuring that key partners are rotated at report produced by KPMG which detailed audit and risk management systems.
their findings both on areas of key financial reporting judgement and other areas of audit To assess the scope and effectiveness of To make appropriate recommendations focus.
the systems established by management to through the Board to the shareholders for identify, assess, manage and monitor financial their approval at the AGM in relation to the Reviewed the final draft of the 2016 Interim and non-financial risks.
appointment, re-appointment and removal Announcement.
To review the Groups arrangements for its Obtained an update on the Groups progress employees to raise concerns, in confidence, To agree with the external auditor, before the in determining the likely new revenue about possible wrong-doing or financial audit commences, the nature and scope of recognition accounting policy in relation reporting or other matters through the the audit and to review the auditors quality to the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Groups Whistleblowing procedure and to control procedures and steps taken by the contracts with customers.
ensure that arrangements are in place for the auditor to respond to changes in regulatory The Committee confirmed that they believe proportionate and independent investigation and other requirements.
of such matters and for appropriate followthe significant financial reporting judgements To review the external auditor's management during the year continued to be: upaction.
letter and management's response.
To review annually the Groups policies and profit recognition: and To consider management's response to any procedures to ensure compliance with the the carrying value of land and work major external audit recommendations.
To authorise the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
To ensure that the audit services contract is put out to competitive tender at regular intervals as required by regulation or best practice, and in respect of such tender oversee the selection process and ensure that all tendering firms have such access as is necessary to information and individuals during the duration of the tender process.
A comprehensive version of the Committees terms of reference is available on our website at www.
50 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The table below sets out the matters considered and the action performed by the Committee during the year in relation to the significant financial reporting judgements: Profit recognition The carrying value of land and work in progress Matters considered Gross profit of 574.8 million has been recognised on housing and other Land and work in progress including showhomes are the most significant assets revenue.
Gross profit for completed housing sales is recognised based on on the Groups balance sheet and at 31 July 2016 had a book value of 2,532.1 the latest whole site phase margin, which is derived as part of the site phase million.
All inventory is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which is valuation process.
These valuations are updated frequently throughout the life determined by the whole site phase margin as set out in the profit recognition of the site phase and include both actual and forecast selling prices, land costs section.
The risk is that for any site phase, currently trading or not, that the whole and construction costs.
The forecast costs and revenues are estimates and are site phase margin may be negative resulting in a net realisable value that is below inherently uncertain due to potential changes in market conditions.
Management have reviewed all sites phases to ensure those with a forecast negative whole site phase margin have an appropriate provision and this has been re-assessed at regular intervals during the year.
Action performed by the Committee The Committee understands the Groups Revenue and Gross Profit Recognition The Committee understands the Groups methodology in reviewing the carrying Policy and the related systems and controls.
Management outlined the existing value of land and work in progress and the surrounding controls.
Management systems and controls surrounding revenue recognition, gross profit recognition provided a summary of the work undertaken which was considered by the and the valuation process.
TheCommittee discussed these controls, challenging Committee.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they performed in The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they have relation to the carrying value of land and work in progress.
This included the undertaken in relation to the systems and controls surrounding revenue procedures identified in relation to profit recognition and a review of the latest site recognition, gross profit recognition and the valuation process and provided phase valuation for all sites phases active during the year and those that are yet to an explanation of the detailed substantive testing performed.
also reviewed a summary prepared by KPMG explaining their findings from their Following enquiry with management and the external auditor, the Committee work testing the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups systems and concluded that there are appropriate systems and internal controls in place to controls pertaining to revenue recognition and the valuation process.
assess the carrying value of land and work in progress and that the carrying value Following enquiry with management and the external auditor, the Committee of these assets in the financial statements is appropriate.
concluded that there are appropriate systems and internal controls in place to assess and quantify both actual and forecast selling prices and costs and that the Groups Revenue and Gross Profit Recognition Policy is appropriate and has been properly applied in these financial statements.
Internal control and risk management Our principal risks, which are described in A comprehensive monitoring and reporting the Strategic Report on pages 22 to 23, are system is in place including annual budgets, The Committee is responsible for reviewing regularly reviewed and cover all aspects of our monthly forecasting and management and assessing the Groups internal controls operations including land acquisition, planning, reporting, including variance analysis and and risk management systems and providing construction, health and safety, sales, legal and commentary.
This is produced by divisional guidance on these to the Board.
The Board is human resources.
management and reviewed by the Regional responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of Chairmen and function heads at Head Office.
the system of internal controls.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a Summaries are also provided to the executive systematic and ongoing basis, to review the Throughout the year the risk register has been directors.
key risks inherent in the business, the operation reviewed and updated by management.
This of the systems and controls necessary to Monthly divisional board meetings are held review included ensuring the completeness to review divisional performance, which manage such risks and their effectiveness and of risks, assessing their likelihood, impact and to satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are are attended by the Regional Chairmen.
Risk is considered The executive directors and Group General being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key at each Board meeting, with a full review of areas of control are as follows: Counsel and Company Secretary attend the risk register taking place at least annually.
certain divisional board meetings on a The internal control and risk management The Board has agreed the principal risks, regular basis during the year and this processes only reduce the risk of material which are reviewed throughout the year is supplemented with main Board visits misstatement or loss, and do not eliminate and has considered the extent to which the todivisions.
measures taken by the Group mitigate those risks.
During the year a detailed analysis of the risk register was prepared by management The acquisition of land and land interests and was considered by the Committee.
This is initiated by divisional management and analysis set out both the existing controls and reviewed by the appropriate Regional included consideration of additional controls Chairman prior to submission to Head Office that could be implemented to further enhance for approval.
All land acquisitions must the control environment.
achieve minimum financial acquisition criteria and are subject to approval by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary or the executive directors depending upon value and in certain circumstances, approval by theBoard.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 51 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued The focus of the risk and internal audit function An understanding of the AQR and internal Main activities during the year has been designed to consider both areas of KPMG quality review findings specifically in continued risk within the Group and how they can be relation to the engagement partner, Nick better mitigated, as well as the overall control Plumb.
Internal control and risk management environment of the Group thereby providing continued Considering KPMGs independence, assurance to the Committee on the robustness objectivity and professional scepticism.
Site phase valuations are produced of controls in place.
A rolling risk and internal periodically throughout the life of a site audit plan is being developed to ensure all Reviewing the performance of KPMG against phase, with the actual and forecast costs and aspects of Group activities are considered on their audit strategy for the 2014 15 financial revenues produced at a divisional level prior an on going basis.
year, the most recent fully completed to review by the divisional management team audit cycle, and their interaction with the The results of all risk and internal audit work will and Head Office team.
be presented to the Committee at each of their Regular visits to sites are undertaken by inmeetings, with control recommendations being Considering how KPMG have added value house health and safety teams and external made as part of each piece of work.
consultants to monitor health and safety necessary, and as agreed by management standards andperformance.
The outcome of the review was that the and the Committee, the Head of Risk will utilise Committee recommended to the Board, which specialists from within relevant functions to A central treasury function operates at Head is in turn recommending to the shareholders, assist in delivering the plan.
Office ensuring that optimum financing is that KPMG be re-appointed as the auditor of obtained for the Group as a whole.
External audit A number of our key functions are dealt KPMG has been the auditor of the Group since with centrally.
These include taxation, Audit effectiveness and re-appointment 1979 when Bellway p. l. c. was listed and the pensions, insurance, information technology, KPMG is the external auditor and their audit has not been tendered in the intervening legal, health and safety, human resources performance is monitored by the Committee period.
Nick Plumb is the lead audit partner and company secretarial functions.
The Committee reviewed and has just completed his third year out of centralisation ensures a consistent approach the performance of KPMG during the year a maximum of five years in this role.
We are and the appropriate range of skills to manage utilising the guidance note titled Audit Quality aware of the Order of the Competition and these specialised areas.
produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
Markets Authority in relation to FTSE 350 companies which will require us to change Where any control recommendations This review consisted of: ourexternal auditor by the date of the AGM are made by the external auditors, these prior to June 2020 and intend to tender the are considered and where relevant are Considering the robustness and audit in the next three years.
implemented to further strengthen the control appropriateness of KPMGs approach to environment.
auditing the significant risk areas facing the Group.
During the year, as required by the Code, the Committee considered the need for Considering whether KPMGs materiality a specific risk and internal audit function.
proposal for the 2014 15 financial year, Notwithstanding the robust systems and which was the most up-to-date information controls that we have in place, we decided held at the date of the review, was set at an to create a risk and internal audit function appropriate level for the component parts during the year given the significant growth ofthe Group.
experienced by the Group over recent years.
Discussions with management who were A Head of Risk has been recruited who has involved in the financial reporting processes.
a direct reporting line into both the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Gaining an understanding of the findings of Audit Committee.
the Audit Quality Review AQR team of the Financial Reporting Council following their inspection of audit firms including KPMG.
Thisincluded understanding whether any ofthe findings would have affected the audit.
52 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Auditor independence and non-audit fees Audit Committee assessment During the year the Committee reviewed the During the year the Committee assessed both Group Independent Auditor Policy which the performance of the Committee as a whole seeks to preserve the independence of the and that of its individual members utilising external auditor by defining those non-audit a questionnaire that was independently services the external auditor may and may completed.
I reviewed the results and no issues not provide.
There are clearly defined levels of were raised.
approval depending on the value of the work to be provided.
Where fees exceed 100,000 Whistleblowing or where total non-audit fees equate to 100% The Groups Whistleblowing Procedure is of audit fees, Board approval is required.
well publicised at all locations and allows all In relation to any material project with fees employees to raise concerns in confidence in excess of 200,000 where the auditor is to either the Group General Counsel and considered for the provision of services, this Company Secretary or Deputy Group would be subject to a competitive tendering Company Secretary or alternatively, an process.
The Committee reviewed the Whistleblowing Procedure and The external auditor would not be engaged for updated it to adhere to best practice.
any of the following non-audit related services: bookkeeping or other services related to the Bribery Act accounting records or financial statements: The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy financial information system design and and procedures are circulated throughout implementation: the Group and are included on our intranet.
Thisalready robust Policy and procedures appraisal or valuation services, fairness were further strengthened by management opinions, or contributions in kind reports: and external advisers during the year, with actuarial services: these amendments being approved by the Committee.
The Group General Counsel internal audit services: and Company Secretary presented specific sections of the revised Policy to Regional management functions or human resources: Chairmen, Managing Directors and Land broker or dealer, investment adviser or Directors to further emphasise the importance investment banking services: of compliance with the Policy and an on-line training module is currently being devised for legal services and expert services unrelated all employees for 2016 17. to the audit: and any other service that is impermissible by regulation.
For an analysis of fees paid to KPMG see note 4 Paul Hampden Smith to the accounts.
The non-audit fees are for tax Chairman of the Audit Committee compliance and ad hoc tax advisory work and 17 October 2016 the audit of the final salary pension scheme.
The ratio of non-audit fees for the year to the external audit fee was 9.4%.
KPMG have also provided written confirmation that they remain independent.
The Groups Independent Auditor Policy has been updated following the year-end to reflect the implementation of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation that became effective in June 2016.
As a result tax services are no longer provided by KPMG.
The Committee confirms there are no independence issues in relation to the external auditor and that the policy has been adhered to throughout the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 53
