GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report We have applied the Principles of Good Statement about applying the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance, including both the Main Principles ofGood Governance Governance Code Principles and the Supporting Principles, by The Board acknowledges the importance of, complying with the UK Corporate Governance Leadership and is committed to the principle of, achieving the 'Code'.
Further explanations of how the Effectiveness and maintaining a high standard of corporate Main Principles and Supporting Principles governance.
have been applied are set out below and Accountability in connection with the remuneration of Remuneration the directors, in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
Relations with shareholders 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 01 John Watson 02 Simon Scougall 03 Keith Adey 04 Paul Hampden Smith 05 Denise Jagger 06 Mike Toms 07 Ted Ayres 08 John Cuthbert OBE DL 44 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE challenge management and contribute to The Board has adopted a schedule of matters Leadership the development of strategy.
The Group which are specifically reserved for its decision, At the date of this report the Board consists of Finance Director is responsible for devising which includes strategy and management, seven directors whose names, responsibilities and implementing the financial strategy and structure and capital, financial reporting and and other details appear on pages 40 to 41. policies and the Group General Counsel and controls, internal controls covering both Two of the directors are executive and five Company Secretary supports the Chairman financial and operational areas of the business, of the directors, including the Chairman, are and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties contracts and agreements, communication, non-executive.
and keeping the Board regularly updated on Board membership and other appointments, corporate governance matters and ensuring remuneration, delegation of authority, The Board sets the strategic aims, ensures that policies and procedures are maintained and corporate governance matters, policies and the necessary finances, people and materials updated on a regular basis.
In addition, it has a are in place for the Company to meet these series of matters that are dealt with at regular objectives and also reviews management The Board has put in place the following Board meetings including both an operational performance.
It defines the Companys values structure which allows it to provide and a strategic review, a financial review, and standards and ensures that its obligations entrepreneurial leadership of the Group and major land acquisitions, major projects, risk, to its shareholders are understood and met.
to delegate authority for operational matters health and safety, HR, reporting requirements, through a framework of prudent and effective The Board has agreed clearly defined corporate governance and internal control.
controls, which enables risk to be assessed and roles for the Chief Executive and the managed.
Chairman, and the non-executive directors Board of Directors Audit Committee Nomination Committee Board Committee on Board Committee Executive Directors' on Non-Executive Remuneration Directors' Remuneration PAGES 4953 PAGE 48 PAGES 5468 PAGE 47 Executive Directors Group General Counsel Head Office Regional Chairmen and Company Secretary Management Team Divisional Boards Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 45 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued Appointment of Simon Scougall as Board effectiveness Board activity during the year Group General Counsel and Company All directors have access to the advice and The Board visited both the North East and Secretary from 1 February 2016 following services of the Group General Counsel and Essex divisions which provided the nonKevin Wrightsons retirement as Group Company Secretary and all of the directors executive directors with the opportunity to see CompanySecretary.
may take independent professional advice at first hand the work of the divisions and to at the Groups expense where they judge it meet with construction and sales people on Corporate responsibility progress necessary to discharge their responsibilities site and other members of the divisional teams.
The Board has a programme of matters which Approval of the renewal of existing bank it considers at each Board meeting and also In accordance with the Code, all of the facilities and the extension of existing and an annual programme of presentations and directors retire from the Board and offer new bankfacilities.
reports from senior Head Office, regional and themselves for re-election at the forthcoming divisional management and external advisers.
Presentations from each of the three Regional AGM.
None of the executive directors hold In between Board meetings the directors Chairmen on the performance of the external directorships.
receive interim papers to keep them updated divisions under their responsibility.
The Board, its Committees and individual Presentation on progress with the directors are subject to annual performance During the year the work carried out by the development and roll out of standard evaluation and all directors are subject to Board included: housetypes.
The Board regularly reviews the directors other interests Strategy.
Presentations from sales, technical, IT and and appointments to ensure there are no CRHead Office departments.
Approval of revised terms of reference for Approval of the revised Anti-Bribery and The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board Committees.
Board and ensuring it operates effectively.
In this regard it pays due cognisance to the Consideration of recommendations from the FRCs document entitled Guidance on Board Board Committees.
Review and update of the Effectiveness, dated March 2011.
Scrutiny of reports from the Chief Executive, possess an appropriate balance of skills and Group Finance Director, Group General experience to meet the requirements of Approval of Annual Report and Accounts Counsel and Company Secretary and senior for2014 15. thebusiness.
management at each Board meeting.
During the year there were seven Board Approval of preliminary announcement, Regular reports on health and safety meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, six interim results and trading updates.
matters from the Chief Executive and a meetings of the Board Committee on Executive Recommending the final dividend for review of procedures and Board training by Directors Remuneration, one meeting of 2014 15 to be approved by shareholders and outsideconsultants.
the Board Committee on Non-Executive approval of the interim dividend for 2015 16.
Directors Remuneration and three Nomination Approval of major land purchases.
The Board normally holds a separate meeting at least once a year Board evaluation.
dedicated almost entirely to strategy.
The nonApproval of the sale of the Groups interest in executive directors met twice during the year, Barking Riverside Limited.
including once without the Chairman present.
Approval for the opening of the new South Mike Toms was unable to attend one Board Midlands division in February 2016 and meeting during the year due to illness and approval for the opening of a further new there were no other absences from any other division in County Durham on 1 August 2016.
46 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Training and development Board evaluation The Board committees The Board receives appropriate training and This years evaluation of the performance and The Board has formally constituted Audit, updates on various matters relevant to its role effectiveness of the Board, its committees and Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
and responsibilities, as and when required.
individual directors, was again conducted The terms of reference for these committees Training needs are reviewed as part of the internally.
Each director completed a are available either on request from the Group performance evaluation process and on an questionnaire in relation to the performance General Counsel and Company Secretary, at ongoing basis.
Following this years evaluation of the Board and any committees of which the AGM or on our website: no specific training needs were identified, they were a member which was followed www.
Other committees however, the Board does receive annual by the Chairman meeting individually with of the Board are formed to perform certain training on health and safety and also received each director to discuss the points raised.
specific functions as required from time to time.
a presentation from an external adviser on The Chairmans performance was assessed The work carried out by each of the Board current developments in the UK and London by the senior independent non-executive committees during the year is described housingmarkets.
Non-executive directors director, who considered the views of the other in the reports of the committee Chairmen regularly attend external training sessions directors as part of that process.
designed specifically for non-executives and evaluated the performance and effectiveness members of Board committees.
Each committee chairman reviewed and discussed the Board Committee on Non-Executive committee questionnaires with the committee Directors Remuneration Board balance and independence members before reaching their conclusions on The Board Committee on Non-Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are how the committees had performed during the Directors Remuneration comprises the separate, with a clear division of responsibilities year and finally the Board, led by the Chairman, executive directors and is chaired by the ensuring a balance of responsibility and evaluated its own performance.
It meets at least once a authority at the head of the Group.
The evaluation concluded that, overall, the year to review and recommend the terms, The Chairman is not regarded as independent Board and its committees are performing conditions and remuneration of the nonas he was formerly Chief Executive of the well.
The Chairmans Statement on Corporate executive directors excluding the Chairman.
The Company considers all of its Governance above provides further Last year it met on one occasion to review the other non-executive directors, excluding the information on this years Board evaluation fees and terms of appointment of the nonChairman, to be independent, as defined in process and progress made against the areas executivedirectors.
Each of the independent nonfor improvement which were identified in last executive directors has, at all times, acted years evaluation process.
independently of management and has no relationship which would materially affect the exercise of his or her independent judgement and decision-making.
The senior independent non-executive director is John Cuthbert, with whom shareholders may raise any queries or concerns they may have.
Whenever any director considers that he or she is interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or may be a party, due notice is given to the Board.
Nosuch instances have arisen during the year.
Progress against actions from the 2015 16 review Action Progress More time and resources to be devoted to the consideration of risk at A Group Head of Risk has been appointed who will help the Board meetings.
Board to deliver and embed best practice on risk identification and management throughout the Group.
The risk register has been enhanced and further developed.
Below Board level succession planning.
The recent appointment of a Group Human Resources Director will permit greater focus to be given to the development of people below Board level, which will enable the Board to have more robust succession planning in place for those below Board level positions.
Further improvement to the nature and quality of information The format and content of Board papers and minutes have been reported to the Board.
revised during the year to provide greater consistency and more focussed content.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 47
