Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued The principal risks facing the company, Dear shareholder Audit Committee Report which are subject to robust assessment I am pleased to present our Audit by the Board, are set out on pages 56 Andrew Wood Committee report for 2016 which to 59, and the ongoing monitoring, and Chairman of the describes our activities and areas of Audit Committee effectiveness review of the Groups focus during the year.
risk management and internal control systems are described on pages 55 significant financial judgements and and 85.
The assessment of risk and the financial reporting review of the risk management systems Our review of the significant financial feed into the process by which we 2016 Key achievements judgements made during the year and assess the longer-term viability of the a Reviewed the significant financial any key financial reporting issues are company, as described on page 81. described on page 83 of this report.
judgements made during the year In addition to our routine consideration Non-audit services a Focused on the Groups risk of the potential for fraud in revenue management in order to ensure During the year we considered the recognition and management override that the implementation of our new non-audit services our external auditor of controls, which includes updates business strategy did not weaken provided across our Group, which from management as to how these our internal control systems predominantly related to corporate tax risks are managed and mitigated, advisory and compliance advice, and a Conducted a review of we also considered the following key whether a suitable alternative adviser reporting judgements: our external auditors and could be found.
I have provided full proposed reappointment of a Quality of earnings details of this review, and the outcome,  LLP for on page 84 of this report.
the year ending 31 December 2017 a Contingent liabilities As part of our work to ensure the a Conducted a review of the 2016 a Goodwill impairment independence of our external auditor, Annual Report and Accounts to We were pleased to advise the we reviewed and updated our policy confirm that it was fair, balanced Board that the 2016 Annual Report on non-audit services summarised and capable of being understood and Accounts are fair, balanced on page 85 of this report so that it by shareholders and understandable in accordance is aligned with the new EU Statutory with the relevant provision of the a Completed a focused internal audit Audit regime.
Further detail about how programme during 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
we monitor and review external auditor Our review of the Annual Report and independence is set out on page 84 of Areas of focus in 2017 Accounts is described on page 82. this report.
a Continue to monitor the Risk management Internal audit implementation of the business Our focus on risk management We continue to work closely with strategy and its impact on the has been enhanced during 2016 our internal audit function, and in Groups internal control and risk as we sought to ensure that the particular Luke Walker, our Head of management framework implementation of our new business Internal Audit.
We regularly challenge a Support the delivery of a strategy did not lead to any weakening Luke on managements response comprehensive internal of our risk management and internal to his recommendations, and audit programme control systems.
We have also generally seek to ensure that such monitored broader market conditions recommendations are implemented a Undertake a more detailed and changes to the risk landscape effectively throughout the business review of the effectiveness of the facing the Group, not least the impact thereby supporting and developing external auditor of the Brexit vote on our business.
our control environment and As we operate across Europe, there is governance framework.
potential impact in particular on our Andrew Wood UK businesses if free movement of Chairman of the Audit Committee people, goods and capital were lost.
2 March 2017 Further details on these risks can be If you would like to discuss found in our Risk section on page 54. any aspect of the Committees activities with me, please feel free to email me at auditchairman@berendsen.
eu 80 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Viability statement Committee activityin2016 Accountability We have reviewed the process and Financial reporting Membership and meetings assessment of the companys prospects The Committees main responsibilities and viability made by management In addition to its members, other in respect of financial reporting are to to support the companys viability individuals and external advisers may review with the executive team and our statement which can be found in full on attend each Committee meeting at the external auditors whether the half-year page 56.
Our review included: request of the Committee Chairman.
and year-end financial statements are At least once a year, the Committee appropriate.
In particular, this includes a Time period: meets with the external auditor and the reviewing and assessing: Challenging management as to Head of Internal Audit without executive whether the three year time period a The accounting policies and management present.
The Committee adopted remained appropriate and practices applied Chairman also regularly meets with in alignment with the long-term the Head of Internal Audit and the a Material accounting judgements and forecasting of the Group external auditor, again without any other assumptions made by management, a Risk assessment and identication: members of management being present.
or significant issues or audit risks Considering the wider context of identied by the external auditor Andrew Wood is a Chartered the Group, and challenging whether Management Accountant and has a Whether the financial statements, managements assessment of over 15 years experience as a Group including associated narrative the principal risks facing the Finance Director at two FTSE 250 listed reporting are fair, balanced and Group and their potential impact companies.
Andrew is also Chairman understandable and provide was appropriate of the Audit Committee at Lavendon the necessary information for Considering the existence of Group plc and Stobart Group Limited, shareholders to assess the companys other risks which could impair and is therefore considered by the Board position and prospects, business solvency liquidity, or which, while to have sufficient recent and relevant model and strategy not necessarily principal risks in financial experience to discharge his themselves, could become severe a Compliance with relevant accounting duties as Chairman of the Committee.
standards and other legal or if they occurred in conjunction with The company provides an induction other risks regulatory financial reporting programme for new Committee requirements, including the UK Considering the likelihood of the members and on at least an annual basis Corporate Governance Code risks occurring in the time period also provides ongoing training to enable selected, and the impact severity in the Committee members to carry out Key accounting issues identied by the the event that they did occur their duties.
Group Finance Team are monitored and a Scenario modelling: discussed throughout the year as part During the year under review, there Challenging management as of the Chief Financial Officers report at have been no new appointments to to the appropriateness of the each scheduled Committee meeting.
assumptions used in stress testing and modelling scenarios Ensuring that a range of Brexit scenarios were modelled and potential impacts assessed Committee attendance in 2016 Committee Committee members Independent meetings Attendance Feb Jul Dec Andrew Wood Yes 100% Maarit Aarni-Sirvi 100% Yes Lucy Dimes 100% Yes David Lowden 100% Yes % based on the meetings entitled to attend 81 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued We received detailed briengs on changes to reporting requirements Fair, balanced and Reporting and key areas to be considered when performing the review.
The requirements understandable accounts production timetable was agreed allowing sufficient time for a and timetable comprehensive review of early drafts and input from the Committee, and The Board asked the Committee to December 2016 and all contributors were reminded of the fair, balanced and understandable consider whether the 2016 Annual February 2017 requirement.
Report is fair, balanced and provides the necessary information for We considered the external auditors review of the Annual Report shareholders to assess the companys and Accounts.
The views of the external auditor were provided to External auditor position and prospects, business management, who were challenged on proposed disclosures to ensure review model and strategy.
In order to arrive afair and balanced view was presented.
January 2017 at a position where the Committee was satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Annual Report, the following comprehensive We conducted a thorough review of the final draft Annual Report and Formal Audit provided comments.
review process was followed: Committee review 23 February 2017 The Committees comments were incorporated andagreed.
Finalised report 2 March 2017 During the course of our review, the following questions were considered for debate: Following our detailed review, and the incorporation of our comments, we were Fairness and balance Understandable pleased to advise the Board that, in our a Is the Annual Report open and a Does the Annual Report contain view, the Annual Report is fair, balanced honest?
Does it report on weaknesses, simple explanations of business and understandable in accordance with difficulties and challenges as well models, strategies and accounting the requirements of the UK Corporate as successes?
policies, using precise and Governance Code.
a Is there consistency between different sections of the Annual Report, a Is the Annual Report easy to read: including between the narrative and forexample, is the narrative broken the financial statements?
up by quotes, tables, case studies andother graphics?
a Does the Annual Report explain our key performance indicators KPIs and a Does the Annual Report have a their linkage to strategy?
consistent tone across all sections and provide clear signposting to where additional information can be found?
82 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements significant financial judgements in 2016 The key reporting judgements considered by the Committee and discussed with the external auditor during the year are provided below: Issues Judgements Quality of earnings: The Committee was presented with an analysis of a limited number of The Committee reviewed the impact of any matters that might inuence immaterial and unusual or non-trading items and concluded that the or distort the presentation of the accounts and ensured that these are effect of these were not material to a fair and balanced understanding appropriately disclosed.
The Committee concluded that costs related to the implementation of the strategy update and in relation to merger and acquisition activity should be separately disclosed as exceptional items due to their size and nature.
The Committee also concluded that the pension curtailment gain and the profit on the disposal of Mitre should also be separately disclosed as exceptional items due to their nature.
Contingent liabilities: The Committee reviewed the level of regulatory and environmental The Committee considered the likelihood of regulatory and environmental provision and considered them sufficient in light of certain third party liabilities crystallising and whether a provision should be recognised.
reports and management estimates including in relation to the CMA In addition, the Committee reviewed the strength of the claim on the investigation in the UK.
The claim on the warranties was confirmed warranties received for environmental damage when it acquired laundry following a review by the companys lawyers.
Goodwill impairment: The Committee reviewed the level of headroom provided by the The Committee assessed the carrying value of goodwill based on the business cash ows and discount rate utilised and challenged the basis future cash ow projections of the business.
It concluded that significant headroom exists and that the application of reasonable sensitivities to the cash ows would not impact the carrying value of goodwill.
Potential for fraud in revenue recognition andmanagement The Committee considered its risk processes and controls and overrideof controls: confirmed that these risks are appropriately managed.
The Committee considered the presumed risks of fraud in revenue recognition and management override of controls as dened byauditing standards and the threat to risk.
We have considered during the year For the financial year ending External audit our previously stated belief that it 31 December 2017, we have The Committee has primary will be most appropriate to conduct recommended to the Board that responsibility for overseeing the a competitive tender in the financial PwCbereappointed under the current relationship with the external auditor, year ending 2019 which is at the end external audit contract and the directors including assessing the external of the current audit partners fivewill be proposing PwCs reappointment auditors performance, independence year engagement.
at the Annual General Meeting on and effectiveness, recommending the 27 April 2017. appointment, reappointment or removal We remain of this view, particularly as of the external auditor, and negotiating we are still in a period of implementing and agreeing the external audit fees.
and embedding significant change to the business.
We will review the Audit tender position on an annual basis and will keep shareholders fully informed of any  LLP PwC developments in our proposed timetable has effectively been the companys for audit tender rotation.
We confirm incumbent external auditor since 1980. that the company has complied with Under the transitional provisions of the provisions of the CMA Order for the the EU Statutory Audit regime and the financial year under review.
Competition and Markets Authority Order CMA Order, we are not required to conduct a mandatory competitive audit tender process until 2020.
83 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued Working with the external auditor External auditor effectiveness review PwC attend each scheduled meeting of the Committee, and present their reports on our half-year and year-end financial The Committee considered whether the external auditor Qualication Resources had appropriate resources and expertise to conduct statements.
We also ensure that the and expertise the audit.
Committee holds private meetings with PwC without management present at least once a year.
These sessions provide The Committee received comments from the CFO and an opportunity for open dialogue and management on the objectivity of the auditor.
Independence Non-audit we typically discuss PwCs relationship Non-audit services provided by PwC were reviewed and, and objectivity services as described below, are not considered to have affected with, and assessment of, executive the auditors independence.
management and particular audit or business risks identied by PwC.
We also The Committee considered the effectiveness and challenge PwC on the independence of organisation of the planning process for the audit and Planning and their audit.
In addition to these private post-audit evaluation.
Quality organisation sessions, I also meet with our lead audit The Committee also reviewed the quality of reporting from the external auditor and their recommendations.
engagement partner outside the formal Committee environment at least once a year.
Independence During 2016, a review was conducted of Effectiveness of the external the suppliers of corporate tax services An important aspect of managing the auditprocess across the Group, which identied external auditor relationship, and of the Following the publication of the Annual three countries in which we were using annual effectiveness review, is ensuring Report, we review and consider the our external auditor: Finland, Germany there are adequate safeguards to protect quality and effectiveness of the external and Norway.
A tender was conducted auditor objectivity and independence.
The 2016 review in in Q2 2016 to determine if suitable In conducting our annual assessment, respect of the audit of our 2015 Annual alternative providers could be found for we considered: Report is summarised in the chart this advisory work.
Following the review a Feedback from the Chief Financial above and the Committees assessment process, we have moved the provision of Officer who monitors the was informed by senior management corporate tax advisory and compliance independence of the external auditor providing feedback on the external audit work to alternative providers.
process and any comments provided a Audit fee benchmarking against other During 2016, other accounting rms by the Chief Financial Officer, the Head comparable companies, both within were used for larger non-audit services.
of Internal Audit and the Company and outside of the Groups sector, Details of services provided by the Secretary.
PwC also provide feedback to ensure ongoing objectivity in the external auditor and its associates on their view of their own performance, audit process are included in note 3 on page 139. measured against their internal PwC were engaged to conduct a The level and nature of non-audit fees performance objectives, and we take permitted non-audit services with a accruing to the external auditor this into account in forming our opinion.
value of 400,000 during the year, I then discuss feedback arising from the a The external auditors formal letter representing 29% of the total fee.
evaluation process with our lead audit of independence These services were principally related to engagement partner.
tax advisory and compliance and were a The length of tenure of the Following the review, we were satisfied contracted in accordance with the nonexternal auditor and of the audit that PwCs audit process in respect of audit services policy.
engagement partner our 2015 annual financial statements was One of the key elements in protecting robust and effective, and in particular the external auditors objectivity and Non-audit services that they provided appropriate focus independence is our non-audit services and challenge to management on the We had determined during 2015 that one policy.
During 2016, we have reviewed key areas of audit risk.
area that the EU Statutory Audit Regime and amended our non-audit services would effect Berendsen is the use of policy to ensure compliance with the our external auditor for corporate tax new EU Statutory Audit regime which advisory and compliance work.
The revised policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor is described on page 85.
84 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Overview of our non-audit a The nature of the non-audit services: a Accounting consultations related to services policy accounting, financial reporting or Whether the skills and experience disclosure matters which fall outside The revised policy for the provision of of the external auditor make it the the denition of Audit Services non-audit services draws a distinction most suitable supplier of the nonbetween permissible non-audit services audit service a Assistance with understanding and those that may be provided by the The fees incurred, or to be implementing new accounting and external auditor subject to certain incurred, for non-audit services financial reporting guidance from conditions set out in the policy and both for individual services and in rule-making authorities which the prohibited non-audit services which may aggregate, relative to the audit fee Group has agreed is beyond the not be provided by the external auditor normal scope of the audit except in exceptional circumstances The revised policy also allows for a Financial audits of employee where the external auditor has FCA theAudit Committee to pre-approve benefit plans approval to provide such services.
permissible non-audit services which are clearly trivial if they fall below a a Agreed upon or expanded audit When considering permissible non-audit setfee level which is agreed annually procedures required to respond to services for approval, the Committee by the Committee and currently orcomply with financial, accounting will apply judgement concerning the standsat 25,000.
Permissible or regulatory reporting matters provision of such services, assessing: non-audit services which may be a Assistance with internal control a Threats to the objectivity and pre-approved include: reporting requirements as required independence of the companys a Due diligence services pertaining under the revised UK Corporate auditor resulting from the provision to potential business acquisitions Governance Code of such services and any safeguards and disposals and closing balance in place to eliminate or reduce those sheet audits threats to a level where they would not compromise the external auditors independence and objectivity Board assessment of the effectiveness of internal control systems The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, regularly monitors and reviews the policies and procedures making up the Groups internal control and risk management system through the following: Control policy procedure Monitoring Minimum control framework for financial reporting Core financial reviews conducted by internal audit and presented to the Audit Committee see below IT minimum control framework developed by IT IT general control reviews conducted by internal audit and steeringCommittee presented to the Audit Committee Incident reporting system identifying all issues in respect of Issues reported to the Audit Committee and the Board, health and safety, anti-bribery and corruption and all other bothof which also receive biannual reports on: corporate  incidents a Health and safety incidents and statistics a Corporate  incidents and CO 2 emission statistics Group Risk Manager compliance review conrming that Results from the annual anti-bribery and corruption risk all businesses are in compliance with group corporate assessments, completed by our businesses, are reported responsibility and risk policies and procedures including tothe Audit Committee.
butnot limited to : The review is conducted biannually in May and November a Business continuity planning and where non-compliance is detected, actions are agreed and followed up until implementation.
a Health and safety policy Outcomes of both reviews, and the follow-up on outstanding a Ethics and anti-bribery and corruption actions, are reported to the Board.
a Incident reporting a Environment and community a Whistleblowing 85 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued Berendsen Incident Reporting Financial reporting framework Internal control and risk System BIRS The Groups minimum control framework management During the year, we have implemented for financial reporting includes clear To support ongoing monitoring a new incident reporting system which policies and procedures for ensuring that activity, during the year the Board and covers incidents relating to health and the Groups financial reporting processes Audit Committee requested, received safety, environment, fraud and other and the preparation of its consolidated and reviewed reports from senior incidents such as business disruption, accounts comply with all relevant management, advisers, Group internal significant quality issues with customers, regulatory reporting requirements.
audit and our external auditor.
At Board suppliers, community etc.
These are comprehensively detailed in level, discussions are held routinely on the Group Finance Manual, which is used the effectiveness of our internal control The Board received a demonstration by the businesses in the preparation of mechanism and risk management.
of the new incident reporting system their results.
on 13 December 2016, which provided The Committee receives a risk the Board with an opportunity to Financial control requirements are also management update at each of its view the system in operation and to set out in the Group Finance Manual scheduled meetings, and also reviews understand how it will improve reporting Minimum Control Framework which are: a schedule of key controls on a twice at Berendsen.
In addition, we review and a Subject to half-yearly and year-end approve an annual Risk Management The key benets and characteristics of conrmation of compliance as part of Plan prepared by the Group Risk the BIRS system are: the half-year and year-end reporting Manager.
This Plan outlines the risk areas a It moves away from manual methods a Reviewed as part of the Group and corresponding activities where the of submitting and sharing information balance sheet reviews Group Risk department will place its about incidents focus in the upcoming year to ensure a Monitored via inclusion in the internal that risk management activities across a Covers a wide range of incidents audit core financial reviews the Group are continuously improved.
which have the potential to damage Berendsen and or have an impact on Detailed accounts for each reporting The Committee and the Board consider our employees entity are prepared monthly, comprising that the information we receive is an income statement, cash ow sufficient to enable a review of the a Structured incident management statement and balance sheet in a effectiveness of the Groups internal process with: manner very similar to the year-end controls in accordance with the FRCs Instant notications to key and half-yearly reporting processes.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal stakeholders These are subject to management Control and Related Financial and Clear mandatory steps to review and analysis in the financial Business Reporting.
ensure the incident is managed review cycle.
adequately and key information is Using the ongoing processes outlined on As part of our ongoing monitoring of captured initial report, validation, page 55, we continuously identify areas the Groups financial controls, during investigation and approval where internal controls can be improved 2016 the Committee reviewed delegated and devise action plans as appropriate.
Assignment of responsibilities for authorities across the Group and each step of incident management Progress towards completion of actions particularly focused on the delegated is regularly monitored by management a Corrective actions management authorities in the new Hospitality and the Board.
The Board considers assign responsibilities and monitoring Business Line to ensure that they were that none of the areas for improvement through to completion appropriate and in alignment with Group identied constitute a significant failing financial controls.
or weakness but note, that the processes a Lesson learnt capturing and sharing across businesses and controls in respect to acquisitions have been strengthened following the a Dashboard monitoring capabilities at establishment of the Group Business all levels of the business Development department during 2016.
86 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements We also annually review the adequacy, Internal audit Whistleblowing qualications and experience of our Our Group internal audit function, led Our whistleblowing procedures operate internal audit resources and the nature by Luke Walker, the Head of Internal in 27 languages and 16 countries and and scope of internal audit activity in the Audit, is appropriately resourced with includes systems which ensure that any context of the Groups risk management the skills and experience relevant to concerns are addressed condentially, system as set out on pages 54 and55.
the operations of the Group.
As Head promptly and thoroughly.
of Internal Audit, Luke is accountable A key focus of internal audit activity in The Audit Committee receives a to the Committee, and has access to 2017 will be providing assurance over biannual report February and July from the Committee members at any time.
financial and non-financial processes the Company Secretary which includes Luke also meets independently with me transferred offshore as part of our details of any new incidents, as well as on a regular basis during the year.
The function providing updates on the integrity of the will also focus on other key change The Committee approves the annual whistleblowing procedures and the state programmes and initiatives within the Group Internal Audit Plan, and receives of any ongoing investigations and the business and audit key operational a report on internal audit activity and conclusions reached.
and strategic risk areas linked to the progress against that Plan at each significant issues relating to potential delivery of our strategic objectives.
We monitor the The Committee will be regularly fraud are escalated to the Audit status of internal audit recommendations Committee Chairman immediately.
appraised ofprogress in these areas.
and managements responsiveness to Through the reporting provided to us, their implementation, and challenge and our review of the whistleblowing Information security both the internal audit function and procedures, we are comfortable that As noted above, the internal audit management where appropriate those procedures operate effectively.
function reported to the Committee to provide us with assurance that during the year on the controls our control environment is robust Andrew Wood established in respect of information and effective.
Chairman of the Audit Committee security and cyber threats.
We have 2 March 2017 During 2016, the key internal audit areas recognised that this is a growing risk area discussed by the Committee included: for many businesses, and have therefore focused on gaining an understanding a Financial controls across the of any areas of vulnerability in our business and their alignment to information security controls and Group standards processes.
We have challenged a Information technology strategy for internal audit and management on the the Group and controls established effectiveness of these controls and are in respect of information security and satisfied that appropriate steps are being cyber threats taken to address any areas of potential vulnerability.
We are currently liaising a Plant maintenance processes with our Group insurance brokers to and controls established to ascertain if we can cover information safely and effectively maintain security risks through a cyber Berendsen equipment insurance policy.
a Group governance controls in place to verify that stewardship of the Group is in line with required corporate governance and key regulations are complied with Capex & Bids Committee In January 2016, the Capex & Bids Committee was established in response to our new business strategy and our ambition to invest for growth.
The Committee strengthens our internal procedures and will focus on reviewing and authorising large customer contract bids and capital expenditure in accordance with the Delegated Authority Limits set by the Board.
The Committee members are the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
The Committee meets on a weekly basis and during 2016 held 50 meetings.
