GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report The main area of focus for the Committee in 2016 17 will be to further develop the Board succession plan and, with support from the Group Human Resources Director, the plan for those immediately below Board level.
John Cuthbert Chairman of the Nomination Committee The main areas of the Nomination Committees Activities during 2015 16 the 'Committee' responsibility are: Nomination Committee Report The Committee met on three occasions To review the structure, size and composition during2015 16. of the Board and recommend to the Board Membership The main activities of the Committee during any changes it considers appropriate.
This the year were: Date appointed to encompasses membership of the Board Director Committee committees and the re-appointment of nonTo approve the Nomination Committee 1 November 2009, executive directors at the end of their term report for inclusion in the 2014 15 John Cuthbert appointed Chairman on ofoffice.
Chairman 1February 2013 To consider succession planning not only To initiate preliminary discussions on Board Mike Toms 1 February 2009 within the Board but also immediately below succession with a specific focus on the John Watson 1 February 2013 Board level and ensure appropriate plans are changes in the composition of the Board Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 in place.
over the next two to three years as existing Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 non-executive directors reach the end of To identify candidates to fill Board vacancies their terms of appointment.
and nominate these to the Board for Main focus in 2015 16 approval.
Appointments to the Board are To recommend to the Board that Paul Approval of the Nomination Committee made on merit using a formal, rigorous and Hampden Smith and Denise Jagger be report for inclusion in the 2014 15 annual transparent process against objective criteria re-appointed as non-executive directors report.
The for a three-year period from 1 August 2016. criteria take into account the skills, knowledge Board succession focussing on changes The Committee concluded that they each and experience of existing members of the continued to be independent of character in the composition of the Board over Board and the importance of diversity, in all its the next two to three years.
and judgement and make a valuable aspects, within the Board.
The appointment contribution both to the work of the Board Recommending the re-appointment to of a non-executive director is for a specified and its committees to which they are the Board of Paul Hampden Smith and term and re-appointment is not automatic appointed.
They were not present when Denise Jagger.
and is made on the recommendation of the discussions regarding their own To oversee the appointment of the Committee.
Group General Counsel and Company To carry out an annual performance Oversaw the appointment of the Group Secretary and other senior evaluation of the Committee and review the General Counsel and Company Secretary appointments.
results of the Board performance evaluation and other senior appointments.
Performance evaluation of the in relation to the composition of the Board.
To carry out an evaluation of the The Committee meets at least twice a year performance of the Committee.
Focus areas for 2016 17 and operates under its own terms of reference.
The main area of focus for the Committee in These have been agreed by the Board and To further develop the Board 2016 17 will be to further develop the Board are available at www.
succession plan and, with support from the corporategovernance.
To further develop, with support from Group Human Resources Director, the plan for the Group Human Resources Director, The members of the Committee are shown in those immediately below Board level.
the succession plan for those the table on the left.
John Cuthbert Chairman of the Nomination Committee 17 October 2016 48 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016
