Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Given the significant changes at Dear shareholder Nomination Committee Executive Board level in a relatively I am pleased to present to you the Report short period of time, we recognised the report of the work of the Nomination need to ensure that its new members Iain Ferguson Committee during 2016. could develop close and effective Chairman of the Nomination Despite there being no changes working relationships as quickly as Committee to Board appointments during the possible.
A team building event was year, the Committee has been active arranged for the Executive Board in a number of areas.
This activity during the year, and we also continually extends beyond formal meetings of encourage and challenge them to the Committee we met formally on ensure their lines of communication are 2016 Key achievements: one occasion during the year, with open, transparent and collaborative.
a Considered the succession the Committee members discussing We have also considered the culture planning requirements at Board matters such as succession planning, of the Board and the company as and Committee level and agreed executive talent development and a whole during our discussions this a timetable for Non-Executive pipeline and Board culture at other year.
Berendsens culture, articulated Director succession events for example: at Board through our vision, missions and values, dinners, during the meeting of the a confirmed the independence has been a key factor in our continued Non-Executive Directors and at of Maarit Aarni-Sirvi and development.
recommended her re-appointment of our new strategy has given us for a further three year term In terms of Board succession, our focus the opportunity to re-assess the has been around ensuring a smooth Boards role in developing and a Monitored the recruitment and transition and continuity of experience embedding a positive culture across induction of new members to the as our longer serving Non-Executive the Group, which will in turn help to Executive Board Directors are now in their final three ensure we continue to deliver longa Focused on the development of year terms as recommended under term success for our stakeholders.
effective working relationships the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Nomination Committee has a key within the Executive Board Our aim is to ensure that any changes role in this process, by ensuring that our are phased to prevent a sudden loss succession planning and appointment Areas of focus in 2017 of knowledge and experience of processes identify candidates who our business at non-executive level.
will be exemplars of our culture, vision, a Continue to develop Board and More detail on our planning can be mission and values, and through executive succession plans, found in the following report.
We have our interaction with the Board ensuring they are linked to the mid also reviewed Maarit Aarni-Sirvis evaluation process and the training and long-term strategic objectives appointment as her current term of and development needs of current of the Group office is due to expire, and Im delighted Board members.
This will be an area a Review, and where appropriate to confirm our recommendation that of continued focus for the Nomination enhance, Board appointment and Maarit be re-appointed for a further Committee going forward.
induction processes to ensure they three year term.
are t for purpose and in line with Iain Ferguson We have been active in assisting with Chairman of the Nomination Committee best practice the process to ll the outstanding 2 March 2017 a Begin the process of identifying positions on the Executive Board new Non-Executive Directors during the year, and were particularly in accordance with the agreed pleased that this process has resulted succession timetable detailed in a significant increase in the diversity on page 78 of the Executive Board in terms of gender, nationality and international experience.
This in turn, enhances the diversity of our executive talent pipeline, and strengthens our If you would like to discuss succession plans for the next period of any aspect of the Committees our strategic development.
activities with me, please feel free to email me at chairman@berendsen.
eu 77 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued Succession planning Membership and meetings Committee activityin2016 We have continued to develop and At the request of the Committee Culture monitor extensive succession plans both Chairman, other individuals and external Berendsens culture is summed up in the at a Board and senior management level advisers may be invited to attend all set of values that inform our activities throughout the Group.
or part of any meeting, as and when across the Group on a day to day basis, appropriate.
The Chief Executive Our focus in terms of Board and which drive our vision and mission Officers role on the Committee is to appointments this year, which were and ensure we deliver on our strategic provide a better understanding of the discussed in detail by the non-executive ambitions.
It is essential to the success strategic issues facing the company and members of the Committee at a meeting of our strategy that these values are the current skills and experience of the in July, was on succession planning for demonstrated throughout the business, Executive Board.
our two most senior Board members: including around the board table.
Andrew Wood and David Lowden.
Induction and experience The Nomination Committee therefore Both Andrew and David are in their final Upon appointment to the Committee, has a key role in promoting these three year terms of appointment as Non-Executive Directors are provided values in all of our directors through our recommended under the UK Corporate with details about the current induction and training programmes, Governance Code.
We agreed that composition of the Board, the companys and through the annual performance the impact of both Andrew and David succession planning procedures and evaluation processes.
leaving the Board at the same time how the Boards and Committees annual In July 2016, the non-executive members would be a significant loss of knowledge performance reviews are conducted.
of the Committee met and discussed and experience in the business, and our Induction to the Committee includes the culture of the Board, describing it plans have therefore developed around detailed briengs with the Chairman as being open and collaborative, and a phased approach to their departures.
and Chief Executive Officer in order to providing an environment in which We have agreed with Andrew and David understand the issues being discussed the directors, in particular the Nonthat they will step down from the Board atBoard and Executive Board level.
Executive Directors can engage with the at the 2018 and 2019 Annual General company and discharge their duties and Meetings, respectively subject to their During the year under review, there obligations effectively.
continued re-election by shareholders has been no new appointments to before then.
We will therefore the Committee.
commence a process to identify new Non-Executive Directors during the course of 2017.
As in previous years, the Board and Committee have met with individuals within the business identied as potential future executive talent during our site visits and other events during the year.
We also continue to receive regular reports from James Drummond and Gillian Duggan our Group Director, Human Resources on wider succession plans throughout the Group.
Membership and attendance in 2016 We continue to be satisfied that Committee members Independent Attendance our succession plans are proactive, appropriate and proportionate and that we are developing a good pipeline of Iain Ferguson No 100% future executive talent.
Maarit Aarni-Sirvi 100% Yes Lucy Dimes 100% Yes James Drummond 100% No David Lowden 100% Yes Andrew Wood Yes 100% % based on the meetings entitled to attend.
One formal meeting was held during the year.
In addition, Committee members discussed matters at Board dinners, site visits and the meeting of Non-Executive Directors 78 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Diversity The Board itself continues to comprise We believe that our Board is 29% female directors, in excess of We have a number of diversity diverse, with a good balance its stated minimum target of 25% programmes and initiatives across female directors.
We have noted the of skills, experience and the Group including the Women in recommendation in the Hampton Berendsen network which aims to independence.
Alexander review that a target of mentor and provide guidance and 33% female Board representation be support to the development of female achieved by FTSE 350 companies by executive talent within our Group and 2020, and also the recommendations Gender the company-wide diversity policy.
of the Parker Review Committee The Committee receives updates published in November 2016 relating on all of the diversity initiatives, and to ethnic diversity on Boards.
We will monitors the level of awareness and consider how best to address those Women engagement of employees with them, recommendations during 2017. at regular intervals.
The executive team 29% is challenged by the Committee to Independence and ensure that the prole of these initiatives re-election to the Board Men is maintained.
71% We annually review the composition Our gender diversity policy ensures that, of the Board and its Committees to where possible, each time a member ensure there is an effective balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
of senior management or a director is Industry experience recruited at Berendsen at least one of This review helps to inform our training plans for directors, and to identify areas the shortlisted candidates is female.
Finance FMCG Although gender diversity is a key area of knowledge, expertise or diversity which should become factors in our of focus throughout the Group, the Board considers all diversity issues in succession planning.
the broadest sense including, but not The Committee conducted a specic limited to, nationality and ethnicity.
Logistics Business services review of Maarit Aarni-Sirvis As a multinational business, it is crucial appointment as her current term of that the Board considers all diversity appointment is due to expire in 2017. practices that could affect its efficiency In conducting this review, we considered and leadership, while ensuring that Maarits skills and experience, her Manufacturing the strongest candidates on merit are Sales and contribution to the Board during her considered for vacant positions.
Operations marketing first three year term and noted her Although there have been no continuing independence and other appointments to the Board during external commitments.
Having taken the year, the diversity of our Executive these factors into account, we were Board has increased in terms of gender, delighted to recommend to the Board nationality and international experience that Maarits appointment be extended Non-Executive Director tenure through recent appointments.
for a further three years subject to her The Committee have been engaged re-election by shareholders at the 2017 with the recruitment process for the Annual General Meeting.
Executive Board positions and we are As is now our usual practice, and in delighted at the outcome both in terms accordance with the UK Corporate of the quality of the candidates and 6 years 3-6 years Governance Code, all directors the level of diversity they bring to our wishing to continue will retire and 50% 50% senior team.
offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
We were also pleased that two of the new roles were lled by internal Further biographical information on each of our directors can be found on pages candidates who had been identied through our succession planning 66 and 67, which shows the breadth of strategic and financial management process.
The Executive Boards biographies are set out on pages 68 insight brought to our board table.
