CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BGEO GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and is responsible to shareholders for creating and delivering sustainable value through the management of the Groups businesses.
The Board: establishes the Groups core values and leads by example: sets and oversees the execution of the Groups strategy within a framework of strong and effective risk management and internal controls: and upholds best practice corporate governance, among many other responsibilities.
The Board is composed of seven Directors, six of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Chairman, CEO and Non-Executive Directors has clearly defined roles within our Board structure.
A description of these roles can be found on our website, at http: bgeo.
AUDIT RISK NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE It assists the Board in relation It assists the Board in relation to It assists the Board to ensure It reviews and recommends to the oversight of the Groups the oversight of risk.
It reviews that the Board continues to to the Board the Directors financial and reporting the Groups risk appetite in line have the right balance of skills, Remuneration Policy to ensure processes.
It monitors the with strategy, identifies and experience, independence and that remuneration is designed integrity of the financial monitors risk exposure and the Group knowledge necessary to to promote the long-term statements and is responsible risk management infrastructure, discharge its responsibilities in success of BGEO and to for governance around both oversees the implementation accordance with the highest see that management is the internal audit function and of strategy to address risk, standards of governance, the appropriately rewarded for their external auditor, reporting back and in conjunction with the strategic direction of the Group contribution to the Groups to the Board.
It reviews the Audit Committee, assesses and the diversity aspirations of performance in the context of effectiveness of the policies, the strength and effectiveness of the Board.
It is responsible for wider market conditions and procedures and systems in the risk management and both Director and management shareholder views.
It determines place related to, among other internal control framework.
the remuneration packages operational risks, compliance, of the Executive Directors, IT and information security Committee membership Committee membership Chairman and executive including cyber-security and Kim Bradley Chairman Neil Janin Chairman management along with their works closely with the Risk Al Breach David Morrison terms of employment and Committee in connection with Tamaz Georgadze Al Breach assesses the performance assessing the effectiveness Hanna Loikkanen Kim Bradley of executive management of the risk management and Tamaz Georgadze against KPIs.
Hanna Loikkanen See pages 94 to 96 for the It is also responsible for Risk Committee Report.
Committee membership designing and overseeing See pages 86 to 88 for the David Morrison Chairman the administration of Group Nomination Committee Report.
Kim Bradley employee share schemes.
Hanna Loikkanen Tamaz Georgadze Committee membership Jonathan Muir Al Breach Chairman Neil Janin David Morrison See pages 89 to 93 for the Audit Committee Report.
See pages 98 to 113 for the Remuneration Committee Report.
82 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC THE ROLE OF THE BOARD At each regularly scheduled meeting, the following topics are discussed: Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote the long-term success of the Group by directing management in creating and delivering Updates from each Committee Chairman as to matters discussed at sustainable shareholder value.
We do this by setting the Groups strategy the respective Committee meeting held the day before.
and overseeing its implementation by management and are accountable Strategy, including progress against strategy.
to shareholders for the financial performance of the Group.
Business segment performance and developments.
We believe that the success of the Groups implementation of strategy Macroeconomics.
requires the alignment of strategy with the Groups internal governance Principal risks and risk management.
We view a strong systems of risk management and internal Board and or management succession planning, management controls as essential to governance which allows us to pursue our performance and talent management.
strategy in a way that risk appetite can be set and risks robustly Regulatory, legislative and other corporate governance updates.
identified, assessed, managed and reported effectively.
You can read more about our risk management on pages 34 to 35.
A comprehensive assessment of the risk management framework and system of internal controls is performed at least annually and optimised By setting the tone at the top, establishing the core values of the Group as needed.
Board meetings are, however, flexible to ensure that pressing and demonstrating our leadership, management are able to implement matters, when they arise, are addressed as quickly as possible.
key policies and procedures we have created in a manner that clearly sets an expectation that every employee acts ethically and transparently The Chairman and BGEO CEO seek input from the Non-Executive in all of his or her dealings.
Directors ahead of each Board meeting.
The Senior Independent Director helps to ensure that any particular matters raised by Non-Executive We also monitor managements execution of strategy and financial Directors are on the agenda to be discussed at the meeting.
While our ultimate focus is long-term growth, the Group Chairman meets with the CEO after each meeting to agree the follow-up also needs to deliver on short-term objectives and we seek to ensure actions and to discuss how effective the meeting was.
that management strikes the right balance between the two.
The Senior Independent Director also serves as a sounding Board We are mindful of our wider obligations and consider the impact to the Chairman and the CEO.
our decisions will have on the Groups various stakeholders, such as our employees, our shareholders, our customers and clients, the The Chairman and CEO also maintain frequent contact in person or environment and our community as a whole.
You can read more otherwise with each other and the other Board members throughout the about our sustainability initiatives on pages 46 to 52. year outside of the formal meetings.
In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specific key BOARD COMMITTEES decisions have been reserved for approval by the Board.
A full formal To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure there is schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board can be found on independent oversight of financial, audit, internal control and risk issues, our website, at http: bgeo.
com page id 67  of remuneration as well as oversight and review of Board and .
executive succession planning, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees.
The Audit Committee oversees OPERATION OF THE BOARD and challenges BGEO in relation to its internal control and risk We schedule in person Board meetings at least four times a year in Georgia, management systems in relation to the financial reporting process.
Full for a period of two to three days each time.
We also hold meetings at our details of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to London offices, with Directors either attending in person or via teleconference.
the financial reporting process are given within the Audit Committee Matters which require decisions outside the scheduled meetings are dealt with Report on pages 89 to 93. through additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls.
In addition, in 2016, all Directors except one attended our annual investor day.
In total, we met In 2016, the Board had four Committees, comprised solely of formally as a Board 11 times during the year.
The Board also passed written Independent Non-Executive Directors: the Nomination Committee, resolutions on 14 separate occasions.
the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Each Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, which are At each regularly scheduled meeting, we receive reports from the Group approved by each Committee and the Board and reviewed annually.
Chairman, BGEO CEO, CFO of JSC BGEO Group and the Bank, and the Each Committees Terms of Reference can be found on Bank CEO on the performance and results of the Group.
The CEOs of our our website at http: bgeo.
principal subsidiaries and the Deputy CEOs of the Bank regularly update the Board on the performance, strategic developments and initiatives in The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board on the matters their respective segment throughout the year.
The Banks Chief Risk Officer, discussed at Committee meetings.
Later in this section, there are reports Group General Counsel and Group Head of Investor Relations also regularly from the Chairman of each Committee which describe the Committees present to the full Board.
The Board also receives updates from Group operation, activities in 2016 and priorities for 2017. operating functions on internal control and risk management, compliance, internal audit, human resources and corporate responsibility matters.
In addition, each Committee provides a standing invitation for any Non-Executive Director to attend Committee meetings rather than just Many of our Non-Executive Directors will also make site visits several times limiting attendance to Committee members.
It is not uncommon for the a year.
Examples include visits to newly open branches, real estate sites full Board to sit in on a Risk Committee meeting.
under construction and GHG hospitals, among other visits.
Read the Nomination Committee Report on pages 86 to 88.
At the end of each day of regularly scheduled meetings, there is an informal dinner.
One of the dinners always bring the Directors and executive management together, and the other is typically just the Directors among Read the Audit Committee Report on pages 89 to 93. themselves.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all Read the Risk Committee Report on pages 94 to 96. matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
These include the budget, Read the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 98 to 113. quarterly, half-yearly and full year results, the Annual Report and Accounts, approval of the final dividend and the Notice of AGM, among others.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 83 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Details of Board meeting attendance in 2016 are as follows: Number of % of meetings Board attendance meetings attended attended Neil Janin Chairman 91% Irakli Gilauri Executive Director 100% David Morrison 100% Alasdair Breach 91% Kim Bradley 100% Tamaz Georgadze 100% Hanna Loikkanen 100% 1 Kaha Kiknavelidze 88% 2 Bozidar Djelic 100% 1 Retired 6 September 2016.
Please further note that the NonExecutive Members of the Board of BGEO are identical to the Members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
Details of the individual Directors and their biographies are set out on pages 75 and 77.
BOARD SIZE, COMPOSITION, TENURE AND INDEPENDENCE We have assessed the independence of each of the six Non-Executive We consider that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, knowledge, Directors and are of the opinion that each acts in an independent and experience, outlook and approach, geographic location, nationalities and objective manner and therefore, under the Code, is independent and gender is important to effectively govern the business.
free from any relationship that could affect their judgement.
Each Non-Executive Director has an ongoing obligation to inform the Board The Board and its Nomination Committee work to ensure that the Board of any circumstances which could impair his or her independence.
continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge its responsibilities in SUCCESSION PLANNING AND BOARD APPOINTMENTS accordance with the highest standards of governance.
We believe that effective succession planning mitigates the risks associated with the departure or absence of well-qualified and We believe our overall size and composition to be appropriate, having experienced individuals.
We recognise this, and our aim is to ensure regard in particular to the independence of character and integrity of all that the Board and management are always well resourced with the of the Directors.
Each of our Non-Executive Directors occupies, and or right people in terms of skills and experience, in order to effectively has previously occupied, senior positions in a broad range of relevant and successfully deliver our strategy.
We also recognise that continued associated industries, bringing valuable external perspective to the tenure brings a depth of Group-specific knowledge that is important Boards deliberations through their experience and insight from other to retain.
sectors enabling them to contribute significantly to decision-making.
No individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the decision-making The Board Nomination Committee is responsible for both Director and process and no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the The average tenure of our Non-Executive Directors is four years.
We value diversity in all forms.
Currently, six different nationalities are Read more detail on this in the represented on our Board of seven Directors.
More information on our Nomination Committee Report approach to diversity can be found on page 87. on pages 86 to 88.
84 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC EVALUATION OF BOARD PERFORMANCE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises On appointment, our Non-Executive Directors are given a letter of that its annual evaluation process is an important tool in reaching that appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship, goal.
We are in year three of our three-year performance evaluation including the fees payable and the expected time commitment.
For the 2014 and 2015 evaluations, we engaged Lintstock, an Non-Executive Director is expected to commit approximately 25-35 days external effectiveness evaluation specialist, to conduct comprehensive per year to the role.
An additional time commitment is required to fulfil evaluations of the full Board, each of our Committees and individual their roles as Board Committee members and or Board Committee Directors.
The 2016 evaluation of the Board, Committees and Chairman Chairmen, as applicable.
We are confident that all Non-Executive was an internal process.
Our Chairman conducted an evaluation of the Directors dedicate the amount of time necessary to contribute to the Board, which included an assessment of the progress made against the effectiveness of the Board.
The Letters of Appointment for our objectives set for 2016.
Our Group Company Secretary conducted Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at our registered evaluations of our Committees and the performance review of the office during normal business hours.
Chairman was conducted by the Senior Independent Director who consulted with all members of the Board beforehand.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Any external appointment or other significant commitment of the The outcomes of the evaluations are discussed in detail at Board Non-Executive Director requires prior approval of the Board.
Our meetings and the Board will set its priorities for the following year.
Non-Executive Directors hold external directorships or other external The 2016 evaluation confirmed that Board and its Committees positions but the Board believes they still have sufficient time to devote continue to perform effectively.
to their duties as a Director and that the other external directorships positions held provide with valuable expertise which is then contributed Overall, the Board is considered strong, bringing a good balance and to our Board.
mix of expertise and experience and offering real diversity of view and perspective.
BOARD INDUCTION, ONGOING TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Progress was felt to have been made against the objectives we set for On appointment, each Director takes part in an induction programme, 2016.
In particular: during which he or she meets members of executive management below the Board level, receives information about the role of the Board and We closely monitored our Investment Business strategy and were individual Directors, each Board Committee and the powers delegated pleased with the progress made.
He is also advised of the legal and other duties We dedicated more time to discuss risk management and internal and obligations of a Director of a premium listed company.
control and we were satisfied with how these systems were improved.
We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors in We were very pleased with the results of our management order that they may build on their expertise and develop an ever-more succession plans Group-wide.
detailed understanding of the business, markets and regulatory environment in which Group companies operate and our evolving We did not succeed in appointing an additional female Board member corporate governance framework.
despite interviewing female candidates for the auditing and or accounting expertise appointment.
All of our Directors participated in ongoing training and professional development throughout 2016, which included briefings, site visits, Based on the results of the evaluations and continued discussions, development sessions and presentations by our Group Company the Board has set the following objectives for 2017: Secretary, members of management, external speakers and our professional advisors.
We note that we received detailed training on Continuous review of overall strategy for the Group.
and revised our policies and procedures to address the implementation Monitor the Banks implementation of its strategy and of the EU Market Abuse Regulation and changes introduced by EU Audit financial performance.
Reform, the latest edition of the Code and the Disclosure Guidance and Monitor our shareholding at GHG and consider a potential further Transparency Rules.
reduction in our shareholding if opportune.
Monitor progress at our other Investment Businesses, including INFORMATION SUPPORT strategy implementation and financial performance.
We also ensure that all of our Directors have access to advice of the Oversee improvements to risk management and internal controls Group Company Secretary as well as independent professional advice, at our Investment Businesses, as needed.
at the Companys expense, on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
Continue succession planning, with regard to gender diversity, at the Board and executive management.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS In line with the Codes recommendations, all of our Directors seek Our three-year performance evaluation cycle begins again for 2017 with re-election every year and accordingly all Directors will stand for our external evaluator, Lintstock, engaged to perform a comprehensive re-election in June 2017.
The Board has set out in its Notice of Annual evaluation of our Board, Committees and Directors.
General Meeting the qualifications of each Director and support for re-election.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 85 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
