RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Safeguarding shareholder value KIM BRADLEY CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Dear Shareholders, KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its I am pleased to present the Groups Risk Committee Report.
As our responsibilities in relation to the oversight of risk and to provide advice Group continues to grow, we continue to strengthen our risk management in relation to current and potential future risk exposures.
This includes framework and internal controls.
Effective risk management is critical to reviewing the Groups risk appetite and risk profile and assessing the achievement of our strategic objectives and the long-term success the effectiveness of the risk management framework and systems of the Group.
In 2016, we continued to assist the Board in setting the Groups risk The key responsibilities of the Risk Committee are to: appetite and exposure in line with the Groups strategic objectives and in making any necessary modifications as strategy evolves and when the Support the Board to ensure that risk appetite and exposure are risk environment changes.
We also monitored the Groups risk exposure addressed as part of strategy and actions to address risk, which included oversight and support of our Oversee the risk management infrastructure and process and executive management risk team.
its effectiveness Support the Board in monitoring risk exposure and the We continued to work closely with the Audit Committee to ensure that implementation of our strategy to address risk our risk management framework and systems of internal control operate Oversee, support and evaluate the risk management roles of our effectively and in compliance with the Code and FRC guidance.
We also executive management risk team work through the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups Encourage and ensure open and broad discussion on perceived risk longer-term solvency and liquidity which underlie the viability statement.
concerns and responsive efforts to mitigate when necessary Assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management function in As you will read in the following report, we followed through with each of conjunction with the Audit Committee and the effectiveness of risk the priorities we set for 2016.
We continued to focus heavily on our loan reporting within the Group portfolio and strategy to mitigate risks associated with the dollarisation of our loan book, the depreciation of the Lari and the concentration The principal risk categories overseen by the Risk Committee include of borrowers.
reputational, geopolitical, macro-economic and market, liquidity and capital, credit and certain operational risks other than those overseen I invite you to read more about our work in the following report.
by the Audit Committee within the Group.
As to credit risk, our focus is principally on forward-looking matters.
Kim Bradley Chairman of the Risk Committee The Risk Committees full Terms of Reference are available on our 13 April 2017 website at http: bgeo.
94 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC COMPOSITION OF THE RISK COMMITTEE AND MEETINGS RISK COMMITTEE FOCUS DURING 2016 Our Risk Committee is solely comprised of Independent NonExecutive We continued to focus on our remit as set out above.
in last years Annual Report, our 2016 priorities were to closely monitor our strategy to reduce both our corporate loan book exposure and Membership of the Risk Committee was refreshed during 2016: Hanna operational risks in our Investment Business as well as continue to focus Loikkanen was appointed to the Committee on 22 September 2016 on loan quality in relation to our Dollardenominated loan book.
We following the resignation of Kaha Kiknavelidze on 6 September 2016 monitored the risks associated with each of these priorities and adapted upon his appointment as CEO of the Bank.
Bozidar Djelic retired from the our risk management strategies as macroeconomic conditions changed Committee and the Board on 15 December 2016.
At the end of 2016, due the depreciation of the Lari.
the Risk Committee comprised four independent NonExecutive Directors.
OUR LOAN BOOK The members attendance during 2016 is provided below.
Macroeconomic conditions in Georgia during the year were affected by low economic growth within the region, commodity price fluctuations % of and the depreciation of the Lari, particularly in Q4 and against the Dollar.
Number of meetings The Group saw an increase in NPLs and changes in debtservice Member attendance meetings attended attended coverage ratios with respect to Dollardenominated loans covered by Lari Kim Bradley 100% income as a result of these conditions, which in turn increased our cost of credit risk.
We monitored this very closely and on several occasions conducted creditspecific reviews on the top 20 corporate exposures, Al Breach 100% both in formal Committee meetings as well as on informal interim calls with management.
We worked closely with management throughout Tamaz Georgadze 100% the year to formulate strategies to mitigate risk which included the continued drive to increase local currency loans.
In 2016, Retail Banking successfully increased its local currency loans by nearly 20% between 1 Hanna Loikkanen 100% 2015 and 2016.
Despite approximately 83.3% of our corporate loan book being 2 Kaha Kiknavelidze 50% denominated in Dollars, more than 47.5% of customers with Dollar loans have income in Dollars.
The vast majority of our corporate customers 3 Bozidar Djeclic 100% were able to continue servicing their loans although one our largest corporate borrowers experienced financial difficultly in the second half of the year due to concurrent weakening of product sales prices combined with a decline in commodity prices, resulting in the full restructuring of 1 Appointed 22 September 2016. the debt and continuous monitoring of the status of the borrowers 2 Retired 6 September 2016. business.
The borrower is currently operating profitably leading to no 3 Retired 15 December 2016. additional provisioning of our loan receivable.
The biographies of the members of the Risk Committee are We closely monitored NPL levels and management actions to assure set out on pages 75 to 77. adequate coverage of our loan loss exposure.
Our NPL coverage ratio was successfully increased from 83.4% as of 31 December 2015 to Our meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, the 86.7% as of 31 December.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, BGEO and JSC BGEO Group CEO, Bank CEO, JSC BGEO Group and Bank CFO, Chief Risk Officer and Throughout the year, we also monitored managements implementation occasionally by our head of Internal Audit and our external auditor.
of the corporate loan book risk deconcentration strategy and we were From time to time, other members of management are invited to attend pleased that management continued to deliver on this strategy by meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into key issues and reducing the concentration of our top ten Corporate and Investment developments.
Business clients to 11.8% at the end of 2016, down from 12.7% at the end of 2015.
On the overall balance sheet level, the risk deconcentration In addition, nonCommittee Board members are also invited to attend.
strategy involves a focus on retail versus corporate credit growth as well At several meetings, most members of the Board were present.
Although as our previously communicates steps to increase overall NPL coverage not appointed until September, Ms Loikkanen attended every Committee ratio.
On the specific corporate level, our deconcentration measures meeting in 2016. include reducing our corporate guaranty exposure to certain sectors and focus on further developing out corporate credit syndication activities.
At each meeting, the Risk Committee receives detailed reporting which This strategy takes time and corporate credit risk reduction will remain provides an analysis of: the Groups overall risk profile using both one of our risk priorities in 2017. quantitative models and risk analytics, loan portfolio dynamics, key risk exposures and management actions, performance against risk appetite, the emerging and potential risks the Group may face, the drivers of risk throughout the Group as well as analyses of downside stress testing scenarios.
The underlying assumptions, methodology applied and results of such stress testing are challenged by the Risk Committee.
Early in 2016, we requested management to implement several changes to its loan portfolio dynamics reporting, which was done quickly.
Meetings of the Risk Committee take place prior to the Board meeting in order for the Risk Committee to report its activities and matters of particular relevance to the Board.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 95 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW As our strategy evolves and our businesses grow, we need to continue An internal review was conducted by the Group Company Secretary.
evaluating the design, completeness and effectiveness of the risk The evaluation principally addressed questions on whether the Risk management framework and systems of internal controls to support Committees coverage was aligned with both the Groups strategy and managements implementation of new changes and continued current economic conditions as well as oversight effectiveness with enhancements to ensure that the needs of our businesses are covered regards to the Groups risks teams and management.
through a robust framework, which complies with the Code and FRC guidance in respect of risk management and internal controls.
The effectiveness evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate and perform effectively.
During the year, we prioritised review of the frameworks and controls in place in our Investment Business.
At our meeting in September, we Our priorities for 2017 include a continued focus on reducing our overall were presented with a comprehensive review of the risk management corporate credit exposure and Dollar-denominated loan book, and framework and systems of internal control of Georgia Global Utilities insuring that our risk teams within the Bank as well as our Investment Limited GGU, our utility and energy business.
We had acquired the Business execute on their objectives.
On the macro-economic front, remaining equity interests of GGU in July.
Both the CEO and CFO of we are focusing on various interest rate and currency scenarios given GGU presented us with an in-depth look into the principal risks and the strengthening Dollar and expected interest rate increases by the uncertainties facing the GGU business, the key drivers of those risks, Federal Reserve.
In addition to our regional geo-political discussions, current controls in place to identify, assess and report the risks as well we are also monitoring any policy shifts towards the region following the as future plans to amend and enhance the current framework.
GGU management also gave us insight into expected risk exposure over the short to medium term.
We and the Board will continue to support and oversee GGU managements changes to the framework in line with best practise going forward.
We continued to assist formulating the Group viability statement in conjunction with the Audit Committee and management.
The viability statement can be found on page 35.
We also carefully reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties disclosure and other relevant risk management disclosures for inclusion in this Annual Report.
An overview of our risk management framework is set out on pages 34 to 35.
A description of these principal risks and uncertainties, in addition to recent trends and outlook, as well as mitigation efforts can be found on pages 36 to 39.
An overview of the Bank risk management framework is set out on pages 40 to 45.
96 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
