BOARD OF DIRECTORS Diverse and balanced team who govern with experience NEIL JANIN IRAKLI GILAURI DAVID MORRISON NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN CEO SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Neil Janin was appointed Non-Executive Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an Executive Chairman on 24 October 2011 and has been Director of BGEO on 24 October 2011 and has David Morrison was appointed as the Senior re-elected by shareholders at each AGM been re-elected by shareholders at each AGM Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO thereafter.
Mr Janin serves as Chairman of thereafter.
Mr Gilauri has served as CEO of on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected BGEOs Nomination Committee as well as a BGEO since his appointment in 2011, and was by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
member of BGEOs Remuneration Committee.
appointed Chairman of the Bank in September Mr Morrison assumed the role of Chairman Mr Janin also serves as a member of the 2015, having previously served as CEO of the of BGEOs Audit Committee in December 2013, Supervisory Board of the Bank, having stepped Bank since May 2006.
Mr Gilauri also serves as prior to which he served as a member of down as Chairman in July 2015, a position he CEO of JSC BGEO Group, JSC BGEO the Committee.
Mr Janin continues to Investment Group and JSC BG Financial serve as a member of the Banks Remuneration Group.
He is currently Chairman of the Board of Mr Morrison is also a member of BGEOs Committee, a position he has held since 2010.
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and Chairman Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and of the Supervisory Board for the following serves on the Banks Supervisory Board and as a Mr Janin also serves as a Non-Executive subsidiaries: JSC Georgia Healthcare Group, member of the Banks Audit and Remuneration 2 Director of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC m Real Estate, Georgian Renewable Power Committees, positions he has held since 2010. and a member of the Supervisory Board of Company and Teliani Valley.
He is also a Mr Morrison is a Non-Executive Director of JSC Georgia Healthcare Group.
member of the Supervisory Board of Georgia Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and a member Global Utilities and Agron Group.
of the Supervisory Board of JSC Georgia Skills and experience: Healthcare Group.
Mr Janin serves as counsel to CEOs of both Skills and experience: for-profit and non-profit organisations and Before his employment with the Bank, Skills and experience: continues to provide consulting services to Mr Gilauri was a banker at the EBRDs Tbilisi Mr Morrison is a member of the New York bar McKinsey & Company.
Prior to joining the and London offices for five years, where he and worked for 28 years at Sullivan & Cromwell Bank in 2010, Mr Janin was a Director of worked on transactions involving debt and private LLP until he withdrew from the firm in 2007 to McKinsey & Company, based in its Paris office, equity investments in Georgian companies.
At Sullivan & Cromwell, for over 27 years, from 1982 until his retirement.
he served as Managing Partner of the firms At McKinsey & Company, he conducted Education: Continental European offices.
His practice engagements in the retail, asset management Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree in focused on advising public companies in a and corporate banking sectors, and was actively Business Studies, Economics and Finance from transactional context, including capital raisings, involved in every aspect of organisational the University of Limerick, Ireland, in 1998.
He IPOs and mergers and acquisitions.
Key clients practice, including design, leadership, was later awarded the Chevening Scholarship, included investment banks and a wide range governance, performance enhancement and granted by the British Council, to study at the of commercial and industrial companies.
In 2009, while serving as a CASS Business School of City University, advised on a number of the largest privatisations member of the French Institute of Directors, London, where he obtained his MSc in Banking in Europe, and was advisor to Germanys Mr Janin authored a position paper on the and International Finance.
development bank, Kreditanstalt fr responsibilities of the board of directors with Wiederaufbau KfW for over 20 years serving regard to the design and implementation of on the Board of Directors of KfWs finance a companys strategy.
Mr Morrison is the author of several & Company, Mr Janin worked for Chase publications on securities law-related topics, Manhattan Bank now JP Morgan Chase in and has been recognised as a leading lawyer New York and Paris, and Procter & Gamble in in Germany and France.
Mr Janin has practised in Europe, Asia and North America.
Mr Janin is also a Director In 2008, Mr Morrison turned his attention to of Neil Janin Limited, a company through which nature protection financing.
He became the he provides consulting services.
Founding CEO of the Caucasus Nature Fund CNF, a charitable trust fund dedicated to nature Education: conservation in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Mr Janin holds an MBA from York University, He resigned as CEO in March 2016 and now Toronto, and a joint honours degree in serves on the Board of Directors of CNF as well Economics and Accounting from McGill as on the boards of two new conservation trusts University, Montreal.
he helped to create in 2015 and 2016.
Education: Mr Morrison received his undergraduate degree from Yale College, received his law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, and was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Frankfurt.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 75 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Diverse and balanced team who govern with experience continued ALASDAIR AL BREACH KIM BRADLEY TAMAZ GEORGADZE INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Al Breach was appointed as an Independent Kim Bradley was appointed as an Independent Tamaz Georgadze was appointed as an Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 24 October Non-Executive Director of BGEO on Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders 19 December 2013 and has been re-elected by Group on 19 December 2013 and has been at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Breach serves as shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Bradley re-elected by shareholders at each AGM Chairman of BGEOs Remuneration Committee serves as Chairman of the BGEO Risk thereafter.
Mr Georgadze serves as a member and serves as a member of BGEOs Risk and Committee and a member of BGEOs Audit and of BGEOs Risk and Nomination Committees Nomination Committees.
Mr Breach also serves Nomination Committees.
Mr Bradley was also and was appointed as a member of BGEOs as a member of the Banks Supervisory Board appointed to the Banks Supervisory Board in Audit Committee in September 2016. and Chairman of the Banks Remuneration December 2013 and serves as Chairman of the Mr Georgadze was also appointed to the Committee, positions he has held since 2010, Banks Risk Committee and as a member the Banks Supervisory Board in December 2013 and has also been a member of the Banks Risk Banks Audit Committee.
and serves as a member of the Banks Risk Committee since December 2014.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mr Bradley retired from Goldman Sachs in early Skills and experience: In 2013, Mr Breach co-founded Gemsstock 2013, following 15 years as a professional in In 2013, Mr Georgadze founded Raisin GmbH Limited, a UK FCA-regulated fund manager, the Real Estate Principal Investments and formerly SavingGlobal GmbH a company where he also serves as an Executive Director.
Realty Management divisions, where he which launched the first global deposit In 2010, Mr Breach founded Furka Advisors focused on investment in both European real intermediation in Europe and he continues to AG, a Swiss-based asset management firm, estate and distressed debt.
serve as its Executive Director.
Prior to founding and served as an Executive Director until this company, Mr Georgadze had a ten-year founding Gemsstock Limited, which manages In addition to his investment activities, career at McKinsey & Company in Berlin, the Gemsstock Fund, which was previously Mr Bradley led Goldmans asset management where he served as a Partner from 2009 to called the Gemsstock Growth Fund and affiliates in France, Italy and Germany, where he 2013.
At McKinsey & Company, he conducted managed by Mr Breach at Furka Advisors AG.
was involved in financial and tax audits as well engagements with banks in Germany, His previous career was in research in as management of internal audit activities.
He Switzerland, Russia, Georgia and Vietnam, investment banks, principally in Russia.
In has also served as President of Societa focusing on strategy, risk identification and January 2003, Mr Breach joined Brunswick Gestione Crediti, a member of the Board of management, deposit and investment products, UBS later UBS Russia as Chief Economist, Directors of Capitalia Service Joint Venture in operations and sales.
Prior to joining McKinsey and later was appointed Head of Research and Italy and Chairman of the Shareholders Board & Company, Mr Georgadze worked as an aide Managing Director until October 2007.
From at Archon Capital Bank Deutschland in to the President of Georgia in the Foreign 1998 to 2002, Mr Breach was a Russia and Germany.
Prior to Goldman Sachs, he served Relations Department from 1994 to 1995.
Former Soviet Union FSU economist at as a Senior Executive at GE Capital for seven Save for his role at SavingGlobal GmbH, Goldman Sachs, based in Moscow.
Mr Breach years in both the United States and Europe, Mr Georgadze does not hold any other is also the co-founder of The Browser.
com, where his activities included real estate directorships.
a web-based curator of current affairs writing, workouts and restructuring, as well as established in 2008. acquisitions.
Prior to GE Capital, Mr Bradley Education: held senior executive positions at Mr Georgadze holds two PhDs, one in Mr Breach serves as a Director of Gemsstock Manufacturers Hanover Trust now part of JP Economics from Tbilisi State University and Limited, the Gemsstock Fund, The Browser Morgan and Dollar Dry Dock Bank.
He has the other in Agricultural Economics from and Furka Holdings AG, all of which are private also served as a Peace Corps volunteer and as Justus-Liebig University Gieen, Germany.
He is also an advisor to East Capital.
a consultant with the US Agency for Mr Georgadze also studied Law at JustusInternational Development in Cameroon.
Liebig Universitt Gieen and graduated Education: Mr Bradley serves as a director of a mental with honours.
Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics from health charity.
the London School of Economics and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and Education: Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
Mr Bradley holds an MA in International Affairs from the Columbia University School of International Affairs and an undergraduate degree in English Literature from the University of Arizona.
76 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC HANNA LOIKKANEN JONATHAN MUIR KAHA KIKNAVELIDZE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BOARD ADVISOR Kaha Kiknavelidze stepped down from the AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBER Board on 6 September 2016 and assumed the Hanna Loikkanen was appointed as an Independent role of CEO of the Bank.
Please see page 79 Non-Executive Director of BGEO by the Board Jonathan Muir was appointed as an advisor for his biography.
in June 2015 and was elected by shareholders to the Board and as a member of the Audit at the 2016 AGM.
Ms Loikkanen is also a member Committee in December 2016.
BOZIDAR DJELIC of BGEOs Nomination Committee and was Bozidar Djelic stepped down from the Board on appointed to BGEOs Audit Committee in March Skills and experience: 15 December 2016, having served as a 2016.
Ms Loikkanen was also appointed to the Mr Muir has over 30 years experience working member of the Nomination Committee and Risk Banks Supervisory Board in August 2015. as a professional in accounting and finance.
We thank him for his contribution He is an executive director CEO of LetterOne to the Group.
Ms Loikkanen previously served as a Non-Executive Holdings SA and is CEO of LetterOne Director of BGEO from 2011 until 2013 and Investment Holdings.
LetterOne is an as a member of the Banks Supervisory Board international investment business consisting from 2010 until 2013. of two groups which target investments in the healthcare, energy, telecoms and technology, Skills and experience: and retail sectors.
Prior to joining LetterOne, Ms Loikkanen has over 20 years of experience Mr Muir was CFO 2008-2013 and Vice working with financial institutions in Russia and President of Finance and Control 2003-2008 Eastern Europe.
She currently serves as an advisor of TNK-BP, which he joined after serving as to East Capital Private Equity AB.
Prior to this, CFO of SIDANCO, one of TNK-BPs heritage she served from 2010 until 2012 as the Chief companies.
Prior to this, he was a partner at Representative and Head of the Private Equity team the global audit and consulting company Ernst at East Capital, a Swedish asset management & Young 1985-2000. company in Moscow, with a special focus on financial institutions.
Prior to joining East Capital, Ms Loikkanen Education: held the position of Country Manager and Chief Mr Muir graduated with first class honours from Executive Officer at FIM Group in Russia, a Finnish St. Andrews University in the UK.
He is a British investment bank, where she was responsible for qualified Chartered Accountant and a member setting up and running FIM Groups brokerage and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of corporate finance operations in Russia.
During her England and Wales.
tenure at FIM Group, the company advised several large foreign companies in their M&A activities in Russia.
Earlier in her career, Ms Loikkanen worked for Nordea Finance in various management positions in Poland, the Baltic States and Scandinavia with a focus on business development, strategy and business integration: for SEB in Moscow where she was responsible for the restructuring of SEBs debt capital market operations in Russia: and for MeritaNordbanken in St Petersburg where she focused on trade finance and correspondent banking.
In addition to her directorships at BGEO Group and the Bank, Ms Loikkanen serves as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee of Locko Bank, an SME-focused Russian bank and as a Non-Executive Director of Locko Invest, Locko Banks investment banking subsidiary.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of AKI Bank in Tatarstan.
Since 2014, she has acted as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of T&B Capital, an independent regulated wealth management company based in Helsinki.
Education: Ms Loikkanen holds a Masters degree in Economics and Business Administration from the Helsinki School of Economics, and was a Helsinki School of Economics scholar at the University of New South Wales.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 77 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
