AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Upholding integrity, transparency and accountability DAVID MORRISON CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholders, COMPOSITION AND OPERATIONS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As mentioned in my letter, membership in the Audit Committee has been During the year, the Committee continued to support the Board in its refreshed since last year.
In 2016: assessment of the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
The establishment of the Group Technical Accounting Team our IFRS desk Hanna Loikkanen was appointed in March in 2016 was a key achievement for the Group, further strengthening our Kaha Kiknavelidze resigned in September upon his appointment financial reporting internal controls.
as CEO of the Bank Tamaz Georgadze was appointed later in September The Committee also devoted significant time assessing our risk management framework and internal controls to comply with the latest edition of the At the end of 2016, the Audit Committee comprised four independent UK Corporate Governance Code effective 1 January 2017.
of our IT and information security controls remained a principal area of focus, particularly in respect of evolving cyber-security risks.
The members attendance during 2016 is provided on the next page.
Provisions for loan losses an accounting for complex and one-off Effective 1 January 2017, the Board appointed Jonathan Muir to serve transactions continued to occupy a significant portion of our time.
as an advisor to the Board and member of the Committee.
Since his appointment, Mr Muir has participated in meetings and actions of the As the regulatory environment applicable to Audit Committees continued to Committee, including the finalisation of the Annual Report and Accounts, evolve in 2016, we received continuing education in relation to the changes and has assisted the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
introduced by EU Audit Reform, the latest edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Each member has recent and relevant financial experience and Mr Muir, We revised our Non-Audit Services Policy at the end of the year and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and carefully assessed the effectiveness of our external auditor.
Wales, also has accounting and auditing experience.
The members of the Committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of financial The composition of the Audit Committee has been refreshed with three and commercial experience needed for the Committee to fulfil its duties new appointees and one retirement.
and the Committee is well placed to continue its oversight and governance role in the year ahead.
I invite you to read about the operations and other main activities of the Committee in the pages that follow.
The biographies of the members of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 75 to 77.
David Morrison The Audit Committee works to a planned programme of activities Chairman of the Audit Committee focused on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle and 13 April 2017 standing items that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference updated on 15 December 2016, but also reacts to business developments.
Our meetings are regularly attended by the CFO of JSC BGEO Group and the Bank, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Internal Control, Security and AML Compliance and Risk departments, Chief Risk Officer of the Bank and occasionally by Irakli Gilauri, BGEO and JSC BGEO Group CEO, and Bank CEOs.
The external auditor also attends the regularly scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
Separately, we had regular private sessions with the heads of Internal Audit and Internal Control, Security and AML Compliance departments and the external auditor.
These sessions, which are not attended by management, allow us to discuss any issues of concern in more detail and directly with the audit teams.
From time to time, other members of management are invited to attend meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into key issues and developments.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 89 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Meetings of the Audit Committee take place prior to the Board meeting Compliance in order for the Audit Committee to report its activities and matters of Assisting the Board to review the permissibility of and monitor particular relevance to the Board.
conflicts of interests Overseeing the Groups policies, procedures and controls for: Mr Morrison attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions Preventing bribery and corruption that may be raised on the Audit Committees activities.
Identifying money laundering Safeguarding the Groups arrangements for whistleblowing KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee safeguards high standards Operational risk of integrity and oversees conduct in financial reporting, internal control Monitoring various areas of operational risk, including overseeing the and risk management together with the Risk Committee and internal Groups policies, procedures and controls and investigating control audit.
It also supervises the work of our external auditor.
The Audit weaknesses and managements response to such findings in Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities respect of: and makes recommendations to the Board, all of which have been IT and information security including cyber-security accepted during the year.
Corporate security and similar areas of operational risk Internal and external fraud or misconduct The primary roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Internal audit FINANCIAL REPORTING Monitoring and reviewing the role, effectiveness and independence of Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any the Groups internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall formal announcements relating to the Companys performance before financial risk management system recommending them for approval by the Board Reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies External audit and practices Overseeing the relationship with the Groups external auditor, Evaluating material areas in which estimates and judgements have including reporting to the Board each year whether it considers the been applied and reviewing the appropriateness of the financial audit contract should be put out to tender, adhering to any legal reporting judgements made requirements for tendering or rotation of the audit services contract Monitoring significant issues that have been discussed with the as appropriate external auditor and any significant adjustments resulting from Reviewing and monitoring the external auditor's objectivity and the audit independence: agreeing the external auditors scope of work and fees Assessing the clarity, consistency and completeness of disclosure, paid for the audit including compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant Assessing the effectiveness of the audit process financial and governance requirements Agreeing the policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services Reviewing and challenging the going concern assumption and the viability statement The 2016 Audit Committees full Terms of Reference updated Informing the Board of the outcome of the Groups external audit and 15 December 2017 are available on our website at http: bgeo.
com explaining its contribution to the integrity of financial reporting uploads pages .
Narrative reporting At the Boards request, reviewing the content of the Annual Report FINANCIAL REPORTING and Accounts and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, A principal responsibility of the Audit Committee is to consider the it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information significant areas of complexity, management judgement and estimation necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and that have been applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
performance, business model and strategy At the Boards request, assisting in relation to the Boards assessment The Committee received detailed reporting from the external auditor in of the principal risks facing the Group and the prospects of the respect of key areas of audit focus during the year.
The Committee and Group for the purposes of disclosures required in the Annual Report the external auditor, without management present, discussed the key and Accounts areas of audit focus, the suitability of the accounting policies which have been adopted and whether managements key reporting estimates and Internal financial controls judgements were appropriate.
Taking into account the external auditors Ensuring that there are clearly defined lines of accountability and assessment of risk, but also using our own independent knowledge delegation of authority of the Group, we reviewed and challenged where necessary, the Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, actions, estimates and judgements of management in relation to the including the policies and overall process for assessing established financial statements.
systems of internal financial control and timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken by management Number of % of meetings Member attendance meetings attended attended David Morrison 100% Kim Bradley 100% Hanna Loikkanen 100% Tamaz Georgadze 100% 1 Kaha Kiknavelidze 88% 1 Retired 6 September 2016.
90 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC The significant financial judgements considered by the Audit Committee INTERNAL AUDIT in relation to the financial statements are addressed below.
The Audit Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, to oversee the Internal Audit department, which serves as the Groups independent assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems and APPROPRIATENESS OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES In 2016, we continued to scrutinise the appropriateness of the allowance processes of risk management and control across the Group.
As mentioned in last years Annual Report, the Bank introduced a new loan loss provisioning methodology on 1 January The Audit Committee monitors the scope, extent and effectiveness of 2014, which was developed in consultation with Deloitte.
This the Groups Internal Audit function.
We review and approve the Internal Audit Policy and oversee the Internal Audit Plan, which is designed provisioning methodology, which the Bank continued to use in 2016, is based on a statistical assessment of probability of default and loss given using a risk-based approach which is aligned with the overall strategy of the Group.
The Bank uses a loan loss provisioning methodology based on a combination of collective provisioning and individual provisioning based on discounted cash flow analyses.
In 2016, Internal Audit assignments covered a wide range of financial reporting and operational controls, IT and IS systems and risk In 2016, the depreciation of the Lari led to a modest increase in our management processes.
Internal audits of the Group risk management framework, including compliance processes, materially significant Banking Business credit risk.
In response, provisioning levels were increased to account mainly for the increased post-devaluation risk.
The transactions, reliability of information for decision-making and retail main judgements in respect of the appropriateness of the allowance for banking activities were identified as the highest priority.
Throughout the year, we received regular reports from Internal Audit on its audit activities loan losses involved the timing of the recognition of any given impairment and the size of the loan loss.
Throughout the year, management reported and significant findings as well as the corrective measures recommended to management.
We also reviewed and monitored managements on the Banks principal borrowers as well as on the largest impaired and non-performing loans.
Management also reported to us on the responsiveness to the corrective measures through follow-up reports methodologies used for identifying assets at risk, categorising the loan provided by Internal Audit.
portfolio and determining provisioning rates, as well as the key assumptions applied in calculating the provisions for loan losses.
In connection with The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee and the opportunity to discuss matters with the Audit Committee without these reports, we challenged the underlying assumptions made by management with respect to individually and collectively impaired loans other members of management present.
We also monitor the staffing and the system of controls to prevent and detect errors in the estimation of the Internal Audit department as well as the relevant qualifications and experience of the team in 2016, we approved an increase in for loan losses.
budget to ensure that senior staffing needs were met and provide best practice continuing education and training.
In conclusion, we were satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in Note 29 of the consolidated financial statements.
We reviewed Internal Audits self-assessment of its performance and independently formed our own view of the Internal Audit department by considering the progress of internal audit against the agreed plan, taking VALUATION OF OWN PREMISES AND INVESTMENT into account the need to respond to changes in the Groups business PROPERTIES, HOSPITALS AND CLINICS and the external environment.
We also considered the quality of the We received reports from management on the assumptions to be used reporting by Internal Audit to the Audit Committee and the ability of in valuing the Groups premises and investment properties.
The Group Internal Audit to address unsatisfactory results.
On this basis, we engaged Colliers International Georgia Colliers, an independent external concluded that the Internal Audit function is effective and respected by valuer, to value the top five largest items across land and buildings and management and conforms to the standards set by the Institute of investment properties, covering approximately 28% of our portfolio as Internal Auditors.
well as to provide detailed market overview reports describing price developments in residential, development land, office, hotel and retail EXTERNAL AUDIT property markets in 2016 compared to 2015 in key locations Tbilisi, With respect to our responsibilities for the external audit process on Batumi, Kutaisi, etc.
covering approximately 85% of our portfolio.
With behalf of the Board, we: respect to land and buildings, the valuation confirmed that any change in value was insignificant.
In 2016, our subsidiary, Georgia Healthcare Approve the annual audit plan, which includes setting the areas Group engaged an independent external valuer to appraise 45 of its of responsibility, scope of the audit and key risks identified hospitals and clinics as well as land and office buildings.
Management Oversee the audit engagement, including the degree to which the presented the results of the external valuation to the Committee.
In external auditor was able to assess key accounting and audit judgement respect of its hospitals and clinics, the appraisal value was approximately Review the findings of the external audit with the external auditor, GEL 20 million higher than historical value.
We discussed the results including the level of errors identified during the audit of the reports and EY findings, who tested the valuation reports as part Monitor managements responsiveness to the external auditors of their audit.
findings and recommendations Review the content of the management letter issued by the We scrutinised and challenged managements assumptions and external auditor judgements and were satisfied with the conclusions reached by Review the qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditor management.
The disclosures relating to the valuation of own premises Monitor the external auditors independence, objectivity and and investment properties are set out in Note 30 of the consolidated compliance with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements financial statements.
Review audit fees and the cost effectiveness of the audit Monitor the rotation of key partners in accordance with applicable In addition to the significant financial judgements discussed above, we legislation also discussed accounting and financial reporting matters relating to: Recommend the appointment, re-appointment or removal, as applicable, of the external auditor Accounting for one-off and complex transactions including business combinations GGU and GPC acquisitions and the accounting for the restructuring of the Group's exposure to its largest borrower Revenue recognition in our healthcare and pharmaceutical businesses 2 The change in functional currency of m Real Estate from Lari to Dollar The classification of non-recurring income and expenses Changes in tax treatment of profit distributed as dividends and profit which is undistributed and reinvested The implementation timetables of IFRS 9, 15 and 16 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 91 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT TENDER AND LEAD AUDIT PARTNER ROTATION Following our assessment of the external auditor, we formed our own EY was appointed as our Group statutory auditor by shareholders at our judgement which was consistent with managements view and reported 2012 AGM, following a competitive tender process.
The Group will be to the Board that: required to put the external audit contract out to tender no later than 2022.
The audit team was sound and reliable, providing high-quality We continue to review the auditor appointment and consider the execution and service opportune time to tender the audit.
The Committee confirms compliance The quality of the audit work was of a high standard with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies EYs independence and objectivity were affirmed Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes EY was in a position to challenge management on its approach to and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year ended key judgements 31 December 2016.
Appropriate discussions were held with the Audit Committee during the audit planning process Following the retirement of Andrew McIntyre upon completion of the 2015 audit, EY appointed John Headley as our lead audit partner.
We have sought assurance and are comfortable that no undue pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees so as to ensure that there is no risk to audit work being conducted effectively.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the policies and procedures on the use of the external The Committee has recommended to the Board that EY be reappointed under the current external audit contract.
EY has expressed its auditor for non-audit services, which help to ensure that the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
willingness to continue as auditor of the Group.
Separate resolutions proposing its re-appointment and determination of its remuneration by In 2016, we revised our policy on the use of the external auditor to provide non-audit services, in accordance with applicable laws and the Audit Committee will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
taking into account the relevant ethical guidance for auditors.
Any WHISTLEBLOWING, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND ANTInon-audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor now requires authorisation by Audit Committee upon recommendation by the Group BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES The Audit Committee ensures that there are effective procedures relating Chief Financial Officer except in very narrow circumstances.
The policy on non-audit services also requires that fees incurred, or to be incurred, to whistleblowing.
In particular, we have developed a Whistleblowing for non-audit services both individually and in aggregate, do not exceed Policy which allows staff to confidentially raise any concerns about business practices.
We keep this policy under review and receive regular any limits in applicable law and take into account the relevant ethical guidance for auditors.
The Groups current Policy on Non-Audit Services updates from management as to any issues raised by employees.
At the end of 2016, the Group acquired a license for Whistle B, an advanced was revised and approved in December 2016 and can be found on our website at http: bgeo.
com uploads pages  whistleblowing reporting channel and case management services-22.
tool, to replace its existing whistleblowing platform.
Roll-out of Whistle B will be completed in Q2 2017.
The Audit Committee has formally assessed the independence of EY, which We have also developed a Conflicts Authorisation Policy through which included review of: i a report from EY describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and their policies and we assess actual and potential conflicts of interest and assist the Board procedures for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with in its review of the permissibility of such conflicts.
relevant requirements: and ii the value of non-audit services provided by EY.
EY has also confirmed its independence throughout the year, within the The Audit Committee also keeps under review the Groups Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures and receives reports from meaning of the regulations on this matter and in accordance with their professional standards.
The total fees paid to EY for the year ended management on a regular basis in relation to any actual or potential 31 December 2016 were GEL 4.73 million of which GEL 680,000 related to wrong-doing.
There were no significant findings in 2016. work other than the audit or review of the interim accounts.
Approximately 81% of the these services provided in 2016 were related to the issuance RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Although the Board assumes the ultimate responsibility for the Groups of Eurobonds by JSC BGEO Group, with the remainder relating to the provision of comfort letters for creditor covenants, preparation of a transfer risk management and internal control framework, its work is supported pricing report, agreed upon procedures related to the BNB share by both our Committee and the Risk Committee.
acquisition and estimation methodology in respect of greenhouse gas emissions.
Both EY and the Audit Committee do not consider that this Since the Bank is the Groups largest business and operates in the complex financial services sector, its risk management framework and work compromises the independence of the external auditor.
internal control processes are key to that of the Group.
EFFECTIVENESS We have an established framework for assessing the effectiveness of the See pages 40 to 45 for a discussion on Bank Risk Management.
This includes: A review of the audit plan, including the materiality level set by the In relation to risk management and internal financial control, the Audit auditor and the process they have adopted to identify financial Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the statement risks and key areas of audit focus adequacy and effectiveness of the controls over financial reporting and Regular communications between the external auditor and both the certain types of operational risk: IT and information security including Committee and management, including discussion of regular papers cyber-security, corporate security and similar areas of operational risk prepared by EY and internal and external fraud or misconduct.
The Committee also Regular discussions with EY without management present and monitors the Groups compliance with the corporate governance policies management without EY present in order to discuss the external and procedures related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, conflicts of audit process interest and whistleblowing.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached The Audit Committee is supported by a number of sources of internal A review of EYs 2016 Transparency Report and the annual FRC assurance within the Group in order to discharge its responsibilities.
This Audit Quality Inspection Report of EY includes reports from and regular discussions with the Group executives A formal questionnaire issued to all Committee members and with whom it regularly meets.
We receive Internal Audits reports on the executive management of the Group who are involved in the audit control environment and, as mentioned later in this report, we approve including internal audit which covers among other items the quality the Internal Audit Plan which is risk-based and aligned with the Groups of the audit and audit team, the audit planning approach and strategy.
For 2016, the Internal Audit Plan included a thorough risk execution, the presence and capabilities of the lead audit partner, the management and internal control assessment, including compliance with audit teams communication with the Committee and management corporate governance policies and procedures.
During 2016 and up to and the auditors independence and objectivity 92 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, Internal Audit did not find CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING any significant weaknesses in risk management or internal controls.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee received presentations and We challenged the reports by management and Internal Audit and training from the PLC Legal and Compliance Company Secretariat requested data regarding the application of controls for various types department in respect of recent EU Audit Reforms, amendments to the of transactions affecting the relevant account balances in the financial Companies Act 2006, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and statements as well as compliance with key policies and procedures UK Corporate Governance Code as well as revised FRC publications.
Discussions principally focused on changes applicable to the Committee and its accountability and addressed: i Committee competence and With respect to external assurance, the Audit Committee reviews the composition: ii key judgments: iii risk management and internal control external auditor's reports to the Audit Committee, which include the systems: iv internal audit: v non-audit services: and vi appointment external auditor's observations on risk management and internal financial of the external auditor and retendering.
controls identified as part of its audit.
Without management present, the Committee and EY discussed the key areas of audit focus, the suitability VIABILITY STATEMENT of the accounting policies which have been adopted and whether In accordance with the Code, the Directors are required to assess the managements key reporting estimates and judgements were appropriate.
In collaboration with the Risk Committee, we spent time considering the timeframe over which the viability statement should In 2016, our risk management and internal control processes continued be made as well as an assessment underlying the period of coverage, to evolve in line with the strategy of the Group.
Set out below are a few which we agreed should be three years, which aligns with the the examples of changes made in 2016.
Groups strategy and financial forecasts.
In particular, we looked closely at: the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, including those that will Finance threaten its business model, future performance and solvency or liquidity: The finance department established an IFRS desk Group Technical the current financial position of the Group, including future cash flows, Accounting team, staffed by newly recruited experienced auditors from allocated capital expenditure and funding requirements: future prospects: the big four accounting firms.
In addition to involvement in an analysis and downside stress testing.
We discussed our analysis with the Risk of the appropriate accounting treatment for various complex or one-off Committee, management and full Board.
transactions, the IFRS desk is in the process of implementing a new financial reporting control framework for the Group focused on: i risk The viability statement is set out on page 35. identification, evaluation, treatment and reporting: ii the application of consistent accounting standards across the Group: and iii the establishment of materiality thresholds for transaction pre-approval and FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING improved reporting.
In respect of the treatment of complex and one-off Having been tasked by the Board to advise it, we examined the 2016 transactions at the Bank, EY remarked that the procedures implemented Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether they are fair, balanced represent a significant improvement in the risk management and internal and understandable and provide the information necessary for control framework.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
IT and information security systems In respect of our IT and information security systems, the Group has We did this by satisfying ourselves that there was a robust process of increased its internal and external penetration testing, and added review and challenge at different levels within the Group to ensure a whitelisting solution, in order to deny the execution of potentially balance and consistency.
We reviewed several drafts of the 2016 Annual malicious software and implemented Privileged Access Monitoring Report and Accounts and directly reviewed the overall messages and for employees with the highest privileged access to confidential and tone of the Annual Report with the CEOs and CFO.
We also considered customer data.
other information regarding the Groups performance and business presented to the Board during the period, both from management and Regulatory compliance the external auditor.
After consideration of all of this information, we are Our Group compliance function was expanded in 2016 and new internal satisfied that, when taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts controls added.
A Compliance Committee was established at the is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information Georgian holding company level composed of the Group General necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Council, Group CFO, Head of PLC Legal and Compliance Group model and strategy.
Company Secretary, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Compliance Officer with the remit to standardise risk management and internal controls as well as COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW provide additional oversight in relation to legal and regulatory compliance An internal review was conducted by the Group Company Secretary.
with various policies and procedures such as the Code of Conduct and The evaluation principally addressed the composition of the Committee, Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Whistleblowing Policy internal financial reporting controls and the quality of financial reporting, across the Groups material subsidiaries.
An advanced independent the review and testing of the work of the internal and external auditors whistleblowing reporting channel and case management tool, Whistle B, as well as the assessment of internal controls and risk management was purchased at the end of 2016 will be implemented in Q2 2017. within the scope of Audit Committee responsibilities.
The effectiveness In addition, development of a Group-wide online training platform began evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate and in 2016.
Online training will cover the policies mentioned above as well perform effectively.
as other topic such as conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering and personal data protections, risk management, among others.
Our priorities for 2017 include among others continued focus on: The Audit Committee has also considered and confirmed to the Board Areas of management judgment that its work is performed in accordance with the provisions in the Code Complex and one-off transactions and the Financial Reporting Councils FRC associated Guidance on IT and information security Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Based on the above, we are satisfied that our overall internal We will also be closely monitoring implementation progress of IFRS 9 control framework is effective.
and its implications for our financial results and reporting.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 93 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
