NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Planning for our future in the best interests of our shareholders NEIL JANIN CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholders, THE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist in ensuring that the In 2016, we continued to focus on succession planning and talent Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the development programmes.
We believe that the skills, experience, responsibilities of Directors, having regard to the highest standards of knowledge and attributes of the members of our Board and executive governance, the strategic direction of the Group and diversity aspirations management are the fundamental drivers of successful delivery of of the Board.
We also help to ensure that the Group appoints excellent strategic and financial objectives.
executive managers capable of successfully executing the Groups strategic objectives.
In last years Annual Report, we identified the addition of someone with accounting and or auditing experience and increased female In summary, the Nomination Committee is responsible for: representation as our Board succession planning priorities.
We also highlighted the importance of increasing the strength of management at Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to the executive level and directly below in order to have a highly capable ensure they are appropriately constituted and balanced in terms of team to successfully execute our strategy as our Group continues to size, skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
We discuss our progress against these priorities in Identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board based the pages that follow.
on clearly set criteria which takes into account the skills, experience and diversity required by the Board, and the attributes required We also stepped up mentoring, coaching and leadership programmes of Directors.
for talent development in 2016 and expanded the programmes to certain Developing succession plans for the Chairman, CEO, Non-Executive levels of middle management.
Our pipeline of future leaders continues Directors and key executive managerial roles.
to increase and team building is very strong.
Evaluating the suitability of Directors standing for election and re-election at the AGM.
In 2016, we also reviewed the time commitment and length of service Evaluating the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and time of the Non-Executive Directors, recommended to the Board the required from Non-Executive Directors.
re-appointments of all Non-Executive Directors, carried out our annual Organising the process for the annual Board and Committee review of the Board Diversity Policy and facilitated the evaluations of the effectiveness reviews and implementing any plan required to address Board and our Committees.
Preparing the report by the Nomination Committee to be included in I conducted an internal evaluation of the Board and our Group Company the Annual Report.
The results confirmed that the Board and Committees are effective and dedicated to best practise The Nomination Committees full Terms of Reference are available on our corporate governance.
I invite you to read more about our work in the following report.
Neil Janin Chairman of the Nomination Committee 13 April 2017 86 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC COMPOSITION AND MEMBERS MEETING ATTENDANCE BOARD RECRUITMENT AND APPOINTMENT PROCESS The members attendance during 2016 is provided below.
The Board has formal, thorough and transparent procedures in place for Board recruitment and appointment.
As mentioned above, our goal is to % of ensure that the Board is well balanced and appropriate for the needs of Number of meetings the business.
The Nomination Committee has regard to the Boards Member Attendance meetings attended attended balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
Neil Janin 100% In identifying suitable candidates, we typically first seek recommendations from trusted advisors but may also use open advertising or external search David Morrison 100% services to facilitate the recruitment.
We carefully assess each candidate, taking into account our Board Diversity Policy, and take care that Al Breach 100% appointees have enough time available to devote to the position.
Shortlisted candidates are generally seen first by the Chairman, the Kim Bradley 100% BGEO CEO and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
If the selection process progresses further, each potential candidate is invited to meet other members of the Nomination Committee as well as Tamaz Georgadze 100% members of management.
We then decide whether to recommend the candidate be appointed as an advisor to the Board.
It is our usual Hanna Loikkanen 100% practise to appoint a Board candidate as an advisor prior to offering an appointment to the Board.
While an advisor to the Board, he or she may be recommended for a Committee appointment.
The Nomination 1 Kaha Kiknavelidze 67% Committee will agree whether to recommend the advisor for appointment to the Board.
The Board will ultimately resolve whether to make the suggested appointment.
2 Bozidar Djelic 100% SUCCESSION PLANNING In 2016, we actively recruited a Board member with accounting and or 1 Retired 6 September 2016. auditing experience in order to complement the skills identified as 2 Retired 15 December 2016. necessary for the Board and Audit Committee.
The biographies of the members of the Last year, we received the names of various candidates from our trusted Nomination Committee are set out on advisors and shortlisted various candidates with accounting and or pages 75 to 77. auditing experience as well as other complementary skills to our Board.
The shortlisted candidates were seen by Neil Janin, Irakli Gilauri and In order to get the right balance of skills and knowledge on our Board, David Morrison in London in October 2016 and the preferred candidate, the Nomination Committee keeps Board composition under review Jonathan Muir, was invited to speak with meet other members of the throughout the year.
Each year, we ask our Board members to provide Nomination Committee as well as members of management.
We then feedback on the skills, expertise and performance of the other Board decided to recommend Mr Muir as an advisor to the Board and as a members as well as re-evaluate their own skills.
For each Non-Executive member of the Audit Committee in line with our appointment policy, Director the Nomination Committee reviews the time commitment with a view to decide whether to recommend him for a Non-Executive required by him or her, taking into account any external directorships, Directorship in 2017.
The Committee and the Board were confident in length of service as well as independence of character and integrity.
It the selection of Mr Muir for the role and did not need to use advertising then recommends to the Board whether each Non-Executive should be or an external search agency to assist with the recruitment.
The Nomination Committee reported to the Board that it believes the overall size and composition of the Board to be appropriate The Nomination Committee is always mindful of its Diversity Policy when and recommended that each Non-Executive Director be re-appointed.
We considered female candidates for the role, but ultimately determined that Mr Muir was the best candidate for the role based on merit.
BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY Our Board embraces diversity in all its forms.
Diversity of skills, With respect to management succession planning, we further background, experience, knowledge, outlook, approach, gender, strengthened our executive management team across the Group in 2016 nationality and ethnicity, amongst other factors, will be taken into in line with our evolving business and strategic objectives.
consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Diversity is not always an easily measured characteristic, such as gender.
In September 2016, Kaha Kiknavelidze stepped down from the Board to Diversity of outlook and approach is hard to measure but may be equally accept the appointment as CEO of the Bank, replacing Murtaz Kikoria.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Board appointment will Mr Kikoria resigned from the Bank to pursue a position within the always be made based on merit.
In addition to his Company Board and Committee roles prior to becoming the Bank's CEO, Mr Kiknavelidze served on the We have noted the recommendation in Lord Davies final report on Supervisory Board and Audit Committee of the Bank since 2008.
His women on boards that a target of 33% female board representation be financial experience and knowledge of Bank strategy and operations achieved by FTSE 350 companies by 2021.
The Board aims to increase combined with his strong relationships with Bank management, made the number of women on the Board to two by mid-2018 and further Mr Kiknavelidze the ideal choice to take over from Mr Kikoria.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 87 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In order to complement the strategy of splitting our Retail Banking COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW business into two different directions mass retail emerging retail and It is the Nomination Committees responsibility to organise the Board, MSME Solo due to significant y-o-y growth, we implemented the Committee and individual Director performance reviews.
Our three-year following changes: performance evaluation cycle is now well established and operates effectively in assessing the performance of the Board and its Committees David Tsiklauri was appointed Deputy CEO Corporate and as well as individual Directors.
As we are in the third year of our three-year Investment Banking.
performance evaluation cycle, the 2016 performance evaluation was an Mikheil Gomarteli was appointed as Deputy CEO of Express Bank internal process led by me and our Group Company Secretary.
We start emerging retail segment and Bank of Georgia brand operations our cycle again this year which means that comprehensive external reviews mass retail segment : Mr Gomarteli served as Deputy CEO Retail will be performed in respect of 2017 and 2018.
Banking prior to this appointment.
Ramaz Kukuladze was appointed Deputy CEO of MSME and This year's Nomination Committee review by our Group Company Premium Retail Banking Solo.
Secretary principally addressed how effectively the Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board and the Board In 2016, we also strengthened our executive management structure in Committees as well as how the Nomination Committee develops and each Investment Business.
implements succession plans for both the Board and executive management.
The evaluation concluded that the Nomination Committee We made the following key appointments: continues to operate and perform effectively.
Archil Gachechiladze was appointed as the CEO of Georgia Global Our priorities for 2017 are: Utilities GGU, the utility and energy business of the Group: Mr Gachechiladze served as Deputy CEO Corporate and Investment Continue to develop Board and management succession plans in line Banking prior to the GGU appointment.
with the Group's mid and long-term strategic objectives New executive management were hired for each of GHG's Continue to actively recruit in accordance with our Diversity Policy ambulatory and pharma businesses.
Keep Board composition under review as strategy evolves 2 New CFOs were appointed for each of m Real Estate and Further enhance access to talent management programmes Teliani Valley.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT We are committed to talent development programmes and initiatives within the Group.
We increase the skills of our existing executive managers and develop a pipeline of new executive, senior and middle managers through coaching, mentoring and leadership programmes.
We continue to expand our programme y-o-y to include management at lower levels.
Career progression is tangible if s he has the right mindset and work ethic.
The Board also met with members of middle management throughout the year.
Our talent development programmes have also been embedded in our culture, which is characterised by: Transparency Viewing oneself as part of a team of leaders Helping each other to succeed Honest feedback 88 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
