Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Introduction to the Audit Committee Report In my final report to you as Chairman of the Committee, I am pleased to report on the activities of the Committee for the year ended 25 March 2016.
During the year, we welcomed Gary Hughes onto the Committee and he will succeed me as Chairman after this years interim results in October 2016.
Gary has extensive financial and audit experience from leading the finance functions of a number of large companies, and most recently from chairing the Audit Committee of J Sainsbury plc, and so is ideally suited to take over the Chairmanship of the Committee.
A key focus for the Committee this year has been the new requirements of the Code that now apply to the Company, particularly the process by which the Directors are able to confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and consideration of the period over which the viability statement will apply.
The Committee has reviewed the assurance process and the risk management framework to ensure that it remains appropriate and does provide a robust assessment of those principal risks and uncertainties.
We reported last year that we intended to tender the external audit engagement.
That tender process was initiated in December 2015 resulting in the recommendation to re-appoint KPMG as the Companys statutory auditor for the year ending March 2017 and to appoint  LLP PwC as the Companys statutory auditor for the year ending March 2018.
This will enable a smooth transition from KPMG to PwC, having completed the process of integrating BRP into the Groups accounting systems.
The competitive tender was led by me as Chairman of the Committee, conducted in conjunction with the Group Finance Director, Jonathan Prentis and Gary, my successor, and overseen by the Committee.
In parallel with the audit tender process, the Committee reviewed and updated our policy on non-audit services provided by the External Auditor to ensure that the External Auditor continues to be free from any actual or perceived conflict of interest relating to statutory audit services in accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
In passing my role to Gary, I can be confident that the Company comprises a well managed business with a healthy focus on monitoring risks and a keen interest in maintaining robust and effective systems of control.
I should like to thank my fellow directors for all their support over the past nine years and to wish the Company continued success in the future.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions relating to the role of the Committee.
Andrew Cripps Chairman of the Audit Committee 18 May 2016 27 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Role and Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and other announcements of financial results published by the Group: and reviewing and challenging the judgements and actions of management in relation to the financial statements.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control and financial risk management systems and the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee manages the appointment and remuneration of the External Auditor and monitors its performance and independence.
The Group supports an independent and confidential whistleblowing procedure and the Committee monitors the operation of this facility.
In accordance with the Code, the Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees Terms of Reference reflect this requirement and can be found in the Investor Centre Legal Documents section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Membership The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Name From: To: Andrew Cripps Chairman 28 March 2015 To date Lord Bilimoria 28 March 2015 To date Stewart Gilliland 28 March 2015 8 July 2015 Karen Jones 8 July 2015 3 December 2015 Gary Hughes 3 December 2015 To date On appointment as the Chairman of the Company, Stewart Gilliland resigned from the Committee on 8 July 2015 in accordance with good governance practice, but continues to attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
Karen Jones was appointed to the Committee on 8 July 2015 and resigned from the Committee on 3 December 2015 when Gary Hughes was appointed.
All members of the Committee are, and were considered by the Board to be, independent.
The Committee members have been selected to provide the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and responsibilities.
All three current Committee members are chartered accountants.
Andrew Cripps and Gary Hughes are considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
Andrew Cripps and Gary Hughes also have substantial and recent audit committee experience ensuring that the Committee remains abreast of accounting and regulatory developments.
Lord Bilimoria has substantial relevant commercial experience.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has access to the Groups finance team, to its Internal Audit function and to its External Auditor and can seek further professional training and advice, at the Groups cost, as appropriate.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings, however, during the year, Stewart Gilliland, as a Non-Executive Director and in his capacity as Chairman, Charles Wilson, Chief Executive, Jonathan Prentis, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG, the External Auditor, were invited to attend meetings.
The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the External Auditor without management being present.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
28 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year The Committee met on five scheduled occasions during the year ended 25 March 2016.
In addition there were four meetings by conference call to review quarterly trading statements for recommendation to the Board.
All members of the Committee attended every scheduled meeting and meetings by conference call.
The members attendance record at meetings they were eligible to attend was as follows: Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance Andrew Cripps Chairman 9 9 100% Lord Bilimoria 9 9 100% Stewart Gilliland 4 4 100% Karen Jones 2 2 100% Gary Hughes 3 3 100% During the year ended 25 March 2016, the Committee reviewed and made recommendations to the Board on the Preliminary Results Announcement for the period to 27 March 2015, the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Results Announcement for the period to 11 September 2015, Interim Management Statements for the twelve weeks to 27 March 2015, the twelve weeks to 19 June 2015, the ten weeks to 28 August 2015 and the sixteen weeks to 1 January 2016.
Since 25 March 2016, the Committee has met three times to review and make recommendations to the Board on the Interim Management Statement for the twelve weeks to 25 March 2016, the Preliminary Results Announcement for the period to 25 March 2016 and the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
In carrying out its reviews during the year, the Committee considered: whether the Group had applied appropriate accounting policies and practices both on a year on year basis and across the Group: the significant areas in which judgement had been applied in preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out on pages 72 to 77 of the Annual Report and Accounts: the paper prepared to support the going concern and viability statement referred to on page 17 of the Annual Report and Accounts: reports from the Group Finance Director and the External Auditor: the clarity and completeness of disclosures and compliance with relevant financial reporting standards and corporate governance and regulatory requirements: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also: approved the Internal Audit and External Auditors work plans for the Group: considered regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit on their findings: recommended revisions to the Board to the Committees Terms of Reference: reviewed the External Auditors independence and objectivity, the effectiveness of the audit process and approved the External Auditors remuneration: carried out an external audit tender process resulting in the recommendation to re-appoint KPMG as statutory auditor for the year ending 24 March 2017, and to appoint PwC as statutory auditor for the year ending 30 March 2018: approved the appropriateness of the External Auditor providing non-audit services and related fees: and reviewed the going concern and viability statements set out on page 17 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
29 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant Judgemental Areas The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts for the year ended 25 March 2016 and how these were addressed are outlined below.
Each of these areas received particular focus from the External Auditor, who provided detailed analysis and assessment of the matters in their report to the Committee.
Acquisition accounting in relation to Musgrave Retail Partners GB Limited, now known as Booker Retail Partners GB Ltd and its subsidiaries BRP The acquisition of BRP was subject to approval by the UK competition authority and full clearance was received from the Competition and Markets Authority on 3 September 2015.
The transaction was completed on 14 September 2015 and BRP was then consolidated in the Groups results from that date.
We are required to fair value BRPs assets and liabilities at the date of consolidation.
There is an exercise of judgement involved in identifying and valuing the assets acquired in such a business combination.
In that regard, the Committee examined the methodology and outcomes of external valuations and confirmed that they were independent of the Group.
Management valuations were then scrutinised against external evidence and the verification work completed by the external valuers.
The Committee assessed the processes used in the identification and valuation of acquired assets and liabilities, including the reasonableness of assumptions used.
The Committee also assessed the allocation of consideration between goodwill and identified intangible assets.
Following this review, we were satisfied that the judgements exercised were appropriate.
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension Schemes The Group operates a variety of post employment benefit arrangements, as outlined in note 18 to the financial statements.
Although the defined benefit schemes are closed to future accrual, they are sensitive to changes in actuarial assumptions.
We challenged the valuations prepared by the Groups pension advisors and, following discussions with management, were satisfied that the judgements exercised were appropriate.
During their audit, KPMG evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used by the Groups pension advisors and assessed whether the assumptions made were appropriate and not materially different from external benchmarks.
KPMG reported to us on the assumptions used and the way that our schemes had been accounted.
Property Provisions The Group has recorded property provisions in the sum of 39.8m as outlined in note 19 to the financial statements, which, by their nature, are uncertain and highly judgemental.
We scrutinised the key elements of judgement with management to assure ourselves as to the adequacy and appropriateness of the provisions.
As part of the year end audit, KPMG considered the nature of the provisions, the potential outcomes, any developments relating to specific claims, and the prior history of lease obligations, provisions and claims in order to assess whether the provisions recorded were appropriate.
Following discussions with the External Auditor, and the deliberations set out above, we were satisfied that the financial statements dealt appropriately with each of the areas of significant judgement.
The External Auditor also reported to the Committee on any misstatements that they had found in the course of their work.
The Committee noted their work and were satisfied that no material amounts required adjustment.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The coordination and review of Group wide contributions into the Annual Report and Accounts follows a well established and documented process, which is performed in parallel with the formal process undertaken by the External Auditor.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by management in the preparation of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it met the requirements of the Code.
This, and our own scrutiny of the document, enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
30 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Internal Controls and Risk Management Systems The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
In order to keep the Committee abreast with latest developments, the Head of Internal Audit reported to each meeting on developments and emerging risks to internal control systems and on the evolution of major risks.
In addition, the Committee reviewed reports issued by both Internal Audit and the External Auditor and held regular discussions with the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the External Auditor.
During the course of these reviews, the Committee has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function including its focus, work plan, activities and resources.
At the beginning of the financial year, the Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit plan for the year having considered the principal areas of risk in the business and the adequacy of staffing levels and expertise within the function.
During the year, the Committee received regular verbal and written reports from the Head of Internal Audit summarising findings from the work of Internal Audit and the responses from management to deal with the findings.
Amongst other topics, these included further reports on the operations in India, where the control environment continues to mature well.
The Committee monitors progress on the implementation of any action plans arising on significant findings to ensure these are completed satisfactorily and meets with the Head of Internal Audit in the absence of management.
External Audit It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the performance, objectivity and independence of KPMG, the External Auditor.
As reported last year, the Committee has supported the appointment of Stuart Burdass as Senior Statutory Auditor for KPMG, in place of Nicola Quayle who has stepped down, in accordance with best practice, after five years in this role.
We thank Nicola for the thoroughness and commitment she has brought to the audit.
In February 2016, we met with KPMG to agree the audit plan for the year end, highlighting the key financial statement and audit risks, to ensure that the audit was appropriately focused.
In addition, KPMGs letter of engagement and independence was reviewed by the Committee in advance of the audit.
In May 2016, in advance of the finalisation of the financial statements, we received a report from KPMG on their key audit findings, which included the key areas of risk and significant judgements referred to above, and discussed the issues with them in order for the Committee to form a judgement on the financial statements.
In addition, we considered the Letter of Representation that the External Auditor requires from the Board.
We meet with the External Auditor privately at least twice a year to discuss any matters they may wish to raise without management being present.
Assessment of Effectiveness of External Audit The Committee obtained feedback on the effectiveness and efficiency of the audit process from key management personnel through a short questionnaire.
The results were positive, confirming such areas as effective planning, appropriate focus on risk, continuity, commitment and integrity.
The Committee then reviewed the audit process with KPMG and noted the beneficial effect of open discussion of potential issues early in the process.
The Committee concluded that the external audit process was operating effectively and KPMG continued to prove effective in its role as External Auditor.
31 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Tender The current External Auditor was first appointed for the year ended 1 April 2005 and the external audit had not been tendered since then.
We reported last year that we intended to put the external audit out to tender, with a view to the successful audit firm being appointed to audit the Groups financial statements for the year commencing 26 March 2016.
We concluded the tender process for the external audit, as described below, and agreed that, following the completion of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 25 March 2016, KPMG will be re-appointed as the Companys External Auditor subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 6 July 2016, and that PwC will be appointed as the Company's External Auditor, subject to approval by shareholders, at the AGM in July 2017.
This will enable a smooth transition to new auditors, during a year in which we are engaged in the process of integrating BRP, particularly into the Companys accounting systems.
The Committee led a rigorous tender process for the external audit during the winter of 2015 and spring of 2016.
We considered the range of qualified firms and concluded that three firms should be invited to participate in a formal tender process on the basis of: experience and track record in delivering quality audit services: having the high calibre resources needed to deliver quality audit services to the Group: willingness to participate in the audit tender and to deliver the audit services: experience in auditing organisations of comparable size and complexity to the Group: and neither the Company nor the firm being aware of any apparent conflicts of interest or independence issues.
Once the shortlist had been prepared, each firm was invited to put forward alternative Senior Statutory Auditors lead audit partners who were interviewed by the Chairman of the Committee and the Group Finance Director.
Following feedback from the Company on the preferred lead audit partners, each firm was then invited to attend an information day to ensure they fully understood our business, systems, controls, risk areas, ways of working and management structure.
Each firm was required to submit a formal audit proposal document in January which was reviewed by management and the Committee.
On 1 February 2016, each firm presented to the Committee together with representatives of management.
Additionally, committee members met with each firm without management present.
After deliberation and assessment against predetermined objective criteria, as well as taking into account the views of the Group Finance Director, the Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG should be re-appointed as the Company's External Auditor for FY17, and that PwC should be appointed as the Companys External Auditor thereafter.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the re-appointment of KPMG as the Companys External Auditor will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 6 July 2016, and a resolution in respect of the appointment of PwC as the Companys External Auditor will be put to shareholders at the AGM in July 2017.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of External Auditor.
The Committee will continue to review the auditor appointment and the need to tender the audit, ensuring the Groups compliance with the Code and any related regulations.. 32 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Non-Audit Services The Committee has also reviewed its policy on non-audit services provided by the External Auditor to ensure that the External Auditor remains free from any actual or perceived conflict of interest, in accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
The principal requirements of the revised policy are that the External Auditor may not undertake prohibited services, which include: book keeping: the design and implementation of financial information systems or financial controls: outsourced internal audit services that relate to internal accounting controls, financial systems of financial statements: secondments to the Group where the audit firm secondee acts as an employee of the Group or performs any decision making, supervisory or ongoing monitoring function: remuneration related services: actuarial services: management functions: tax services that depend for their effectiveness on a particular accounting treatment: and legal services unrelated to the audit.
The Committee must approve any individual non-audit services above 25,000.
Discretion is used, subject to the controls set out above, in obtaining non-audit services from the External Auditor, although other accountancy firms are also used when appropriate.
In accordance with the policy, a cumulative summary of non-audit fees paid to the External Auditor and third party providers is presented to the Committee on a scheduled basis.
In view of their knowledge of the Groups ways of working and the importance of efficient integration of the acquired business, KPMG were asked to provide due diligence services in respect of the acquisition of BRP.
The aggregate fee for this amounted to 198,587.
Other non-audit work comprised the interim review, for which fees of 35,000 were charged, and other small assignments to assist with tax compliance and other matters for aggregate fees of 65,815.
The Committee believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work being conducted by the External Auditor and that it is not of a nature which would affect its independence as External Auditor.
Whistleblowing Programme The Group has a whistleblowing programme in all of its operations whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters where they feel a malpractice has taken or is taking place, or if health and safety standards have been or are being compromised.
Additional areas that are addressed by this procedure include criminal activities, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
The programme allows employees to raise their concerns with their line manager or, if that is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
An externally facilitated confidential helpline and confidential email facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
Any concerns are investigated on a confidential basis by the Human Resources Department and or the Company Secretary and feedback is given to the person making the complaint as appropriate via the confidential email facility.
An official written record is kept of each stage of the procedure and results are summarised for the Committee.
Committee Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed on an annual basis by both the Board and the Committee itself and results are summarised for the Committee.
The Audit Committee is charged to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate independent investigation and appropriate follow up.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2016.
Andrew Cripps Chairman of the Audit Committee 33
