Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee for 2016.
This Report provides shareholders with an overview of the activities carried out by the Committee during the year.
On 2 April 2015, it was announced that Richard Rose, having served three terms of three years each, as Chairman of Blueheath and then the Company, would be stepping down as Chairman at the AGM on 8 July 2015, in accordance with corporate governance best practice.
The Company has come a long way in the past few years and Richard did a great job of building and chairing the Board.
We wish him all the very best in the future.
Following this announcement, the Committee conducted a search with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership, which concluded, following a thorough selection process by the Committee led by me, as Senior Independent Director, with the announcement that Stewart Gilliland had been appointed as Chairman with effect from the close of the AGM on 8 July 2015.
Stewarts considerable experience in both the wholesale and retail sectors was considered invaluable, as was his thoughtful challenge and insight to Board and various Committee discussions since his appointment to the Board in December 2010.
As such, he was the outstanding candidate for the role as Chairman.
I succeeded Richard as Chairman of this Committee upon his retirement from the Board.
On 2 April 2015, we also announced that Mark Aylwin had decided to leave Booker to pursue other opportunities.
Mark was responsible for the Booker Direct, Chef Direct and Ritter Courivaud businesses.
We are very grateful to Mark for his contribution to the Company.
Mark joined with Richard on the acquisition of Blueheath in 2007, developed our Booker Direct business and helped found Chef Direct.
We wish Mark all the very best for the future.
Rather than replacing Mark we decided to embed the strengths of Booker Direct, Ritter Courivaud and Chef Direct into the wider Group structure.
These changes have helped take the benefits of Booker Direct, Chef Direct and Ritter Courivaud to our national accounts, branch accounts and independent catering and retail customers.
During the year the Committee continued to focus on reviewing the Companys succession plans for appointments to the Board to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity was achieved and having regard to the need to ensure the progressive refreshing of the Board.
This issue was of particular relevance given that both Andrew Cripps and I will have completed over nine years of service on the Board in 2016.
As a consequence of this review, we engaged The Zygos Partnership to undertake a search for candidates with the appropriate skills and experience to join the Board as Non-Executive Directors and in the case of Andrew Cripps, ultimately to succeed him as Chairman of the Audit Committee after this years interim results in October 2016.
A detailed search resulted in the appointment on 3 December 2015, following a recommendation by the Committee to the Board, of Gary Hughes as a Non-Executive Director.
Gary also joined the Audit and Remuneration Committees from that date and will succeed Andrew as Chairman of the Audit Committee after this years interim results in October 2016.
Gary has extensive experience in the finance functions of a number of major companies, and most recently chairing the Audit Committee of J Sainsbury plc.
As such, Gary is ideally suited to take over the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
34 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance The search for a candidate with the appropriate skills and experience, having regard to the benefits of diversity including, but not limited to, ethnicity, experience and gender, to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director and ultimately to succeed me on the Audit and Remuneration Committees is ongoing.
On 3 December 2015, we announced that Bryn Satherley, having served for ten years as Group Operations Director, would be stepping down from the Board and retiring from the Company with effect from 1 April 2016.
Bryn has done a brilliant job for the Company.
He has decided to retire but will remain a good friend of Booker and we wish him all the very best in the future.
Rather than replacing Bryn, Guy Farrant, Managing Director of Booker Wholesale, was appointed Chief Operating Officer with effect from 1 April 2016 and Bryns responsibilities have been split amongst the other members of the Executive team.
Looking forward, the Committee will continue to review long term succession plans for the Board, with the aim of ensuring that an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity is maintained.
I should also like to thank my fellow directors for all their support over the past nine years and to wish the Company continued success in the future.
Stewart will replace me as Chairman of this Committee with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM and Karen Jones will also succeed me as the Senior Independent Director at that time.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions relating to the role of the Committee.
Karan Bilimoria Chairman of the Nomination Committee 18 May 2016 35 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Role and Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee has defined Terms of Reference which can be found in the Investor Relations Legal Documents 2016 section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of additional Directors and for reviewing the size, structure and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and the membership of Board committees to ensure that they have the necessary range of competencies, knowledge and experience required for the direction and oversight of the business.
Membership The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Richard Rose 28 March 2015 8 July 2015 Lord Bilimoria Chairman 28 March 2015 To date Andrew Cripps 28 March 2015 3 December 2015 Karen Jones 28 March 2015 To date Stewart Gilliland 8 July 2015 To date All members of the Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Rose did not chair the Committee when it dealt with the search for and selection of his successor and no other member of the Committee put themselves forward as a potential candidate for the Chairmanship.
No member of the Committee nor any other Director participates in discussions concerning or votes on his or her own reelection or evaluation of his own performance.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 20 and 21.
Their remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings, however, during the year, Charles Wilson Chief Executive was invited to attend meetings.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year Members attendance record at meetings they were eligible to attend was as follows: Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance Richard Rose 2 3 67% Lord Bilimoria 6 6 100% Andrew Cripps 5 5 100% Karen Jones 6 6 100% Stewart Gilliland 3 3 100% Since 25 March 2016, the Committee has met on two occasions.
36 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance During the year ended 25 March 2016 the Committee met to: review the size, structure and composition of the Board: commence the search for a candidate to succeed Richard Rose as Chairman of the Company and following a detailed search process, recommend to the Board that Stewart Gilliland be appointed as Chairman of the Company from the conclusion of the AGM on 8 July 2015: commence the search for a new Non-Executive Director with appropriate skills and experience to ultimately succeed Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following a detailed search process, the Committee recommended to the Board that Gary Hughes be appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 3 December 2015: recommend to the Board that Helena Andreas, whose three-year tenure expired in December 2015, be re-appointed as a Non-Executive Director for a further three-year term subject to re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM: commence the search for a new Non-Executive Director with appropriate skills and experience to replace Lord Bilimoria.
Lord Bilimoria did not participate in the discussions or work of the Committee in relation to this topic: recommend to the Board that all of the Directors who have indicated their willingness to stand for re-election be proposed for re-election as Directors at the forthcoming AGM: review the Committees report within the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and recommend its approval to the Board: and recommend revisions to the Board to the Committee's Terms of Reference.
Since 25 March 2016, the Nomination Committee met on two occasions to: discuss progress in the search for a candidate with the appropriate skills and experience to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director: and recommend the appointment of Karen Jones as Senior Independent Director, with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Board Composition Succession Planning The Board plans for its own succession, with the support of the Committee.
The Committee remains focused, on behalf of the Board, on Board succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee aims to ensure that: the succession pipeline for senior executive and business critical roles in the organisation is adequate: processes are in place to identify potential successors and manage succession actively: there is a structured approach to developing and preparing possible successors: and processes are in place to identify at risk posts.
On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are discussed with regard to continued service on the Board and their succession is considered in the context of the shape of the overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on NonExecutive tenure.
This transparency allows for an open discussion about succession for each individual, both for short-term emergency purposes as well as longer term plans.
As in previous years, we conducted an analysis of the balance of skills on the Board as a whole, taking account of the future needs of the business in the light of the business strategy, the Board changes set out above, and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
In accordance with our policy, we also had regard to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, backgrounds and experience amongst Board members.
37 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Summary of Board Changes April 2015 Richard Rose announced his intention to retire at the conclusion of the AGM on 8 July 2015 and Mark Aylwin resigned from the Board: June 2015 Announced that Stewart Gilliland was to succeed Richard Rose as Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM on 8 July 2015: July 2015 Richard Rose retired as Chairman to be succeeded by Stewart Gilliland: and, December 2015 Bryn Satherley announced his intention to retire in April 2016 and it was announced that Gary Hughes had joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and will succeed Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee from October 2016.
Chairman Succession Richard Rose served three terms of three years each, as Chairman of Blueheath and then the Company.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, Richard Rose advised in April 2015 that he would be stepping down as Chairman at the AGM on 8 July 2015.
In preparing the job specification, assessing the time commitment expected usually two days per month and agreeing the skills and experience desired for a potential successor Chairman, considerable emphasis was placed on identifying a candidate with considerable and recent experience of the grocery and wholesale retail sectors generally and the ability to work closely and effectively with the Chief Executive in delivering the Companys strategy whilst providing the necessary degree of independence and challenge.
The search for a suitable candidate began within the Board.
The search was then widened through the use of an external agency, The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership does not have any connection to the Group other than in respect of the provision of these services.
The search concluded following a thorough selection process by the Committee led by Lord Bilimoria, as Senior Independent Director, with the announcement on 17 June 2015, following a recommendation by the Committee to the Board, that Stewart Gilliland had been appointed as Chairman with effect from the close of the AGM on 8 July 2015.
Stewart Gillilands considerable experience in both the wholesale and retail sectors was considered invaluable, as was his thoughtful challenge and insight to Board and various Committee discussions since his appointment to the Board in December 2010.
The search for a new Non-Executive Director who it is intended will succeed Lord Bilimoria is ongoing.
Non-Executive Director Search To assist it in the search for new Non-Executive Directors, the Committee again engaged The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership was provided in each case with a detailed brief of the desired candidate profiles based on merit and against objective criteria including an assessment of the time commitment expected and their services are being used to conduct a thorough search to identify suitable candidates.
The Committee considered in both instances a list of potential candidates with the skills, knowledge, independence and diversity in its widest sense gender, nationality, age, experience, ethnicity and background which would benefit the Company.
The Company did not use open advertising to search for suitable candidates for the roles of Chairman or Non-Executive Director, as we believe that the optimal way of recruiting for these positions is generally to use targeted recruitment based on the skills and experience required.
Gary Hughes also joined the Audit and Remuneration Committees from that date and will succeed Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee after this years interim results in October 2016.
Gary Hughes has extensive experience in the finance functions of a number of major companies and most recently as the Chair of the Audit Committee of J Sainbury plc.
As such, Gary Hughes is ideally suited to take over the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
The search for a candidate with the appropriate skills and experience, having regard to the benefits of diversity including, but not limited to, ethnicity, experience and gender, to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director and ultimately to succeed Lord Bilimoria on the Audit and Remuneration Committees is ongoing.
38 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Skills Balance and Directors Performance Evaluation The Committee also considered the membership of the Board and each of its Committees.
The Committee continues to actively review the long term succession planning process for Directors to ensure the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees continues to be effective, thus ensuring appropriate levels of corporate governance and best practice and support for the Company as it pursues its strategy.
As part of its review, the Committee considered the performance and independence of Stewart Gilliland, Helena Andreas, Andrew Cripps, Gary Hughes and Karen Jones, each of them having confirmed their willingness to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Following a rigorous review, the Committee considered that the performance of each of Stewart Gilliland, Helena Andreas, and Gary Hughes, as well as Andrews Cripps and Karen Jones, notwithstanding that their length of service as Non-Executive Directors is in excess of eight and six years respectively, was effective and accordingly recommended to the Board that they each be proposed for re-election as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
Diversity We value diversity in the Boardroom and see it as a wider topic than simply gender.
Our Directors come from different backgrounds and each brings unique capabilities and perspectives to our discussions, with a wide range of professional and geographical backgrounds.
We are committed to maintaining a diverse Board.
Appointments to the Board and throughout the Group will continue to be made on merit and overall suitability for the role against objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity including, but not limited to, ethnicity, experience and gender.
We do not consider that quotas are appropriate as a target for ethnic minority or female representation on company boards, since they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
Whilst the Committee has not determined to set targets for the number of ethnic minorities or women on the Board, we continue to consider and make appointments based on merit.
When recruiting, we require any search agency to have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms setting out the seven key principles of best practice to abide by throughout the recruitment process.
Statistical gender diversity employment data for the Group can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 10.
Committee Performance and Effectiveness The Board additionally undertook an annual review of the Committees performance and effectiveness and concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2016.
Karan Bilimoria Chairman of the Nomination Committee 39
