Report of the Nomination Committee Committee membership No.
of meetings 2016: 7 Main committee responsibilities Director Attendance Regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and make A. M. Thomson 7 recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
B. Duncan 7 Give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other E. Lindqvist 7 senior executives in the course of its work.
P. Larmon 2 Be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates, for the approval appointed 13 September 2016 of the Board, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
R. Rajagopal 3 retired 27 May 2016 Dear Shareholders I am pleased to introduce the Nomination Committee report for 2016.
The Committees key objective is to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to ensure there is a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the appointment of new directors to the Board and to ensure that effective succession planning processes are in place across the Group.
This was a busy year for the Committee.
In addition to its main responsibilities, the Committee oversaw the process of appointing a new Non-Executive Director and a new Chief Financial Officer.
Raj Rajagopal, Senior Independent Director SID, stood down at the 2016 AGM.
Pat Larmon was appointed Non-executive director on 13 September 2016 and Ian Duncan took over as Senior Independent Director after the AGM on 27 May 2016.
Dominique Yates joined as Group Finance Director designate on 1 November 2016 and was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 2 January 2017 following David Landless retirement from the business on 1 January 2017 after 17 years of service.
The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the present and future composition of the Board is appropriate for the delivery of the Groups strategy and that all relevant UK Corporate Governance Code requirements continue to be met.
A. M. Thomson Chairman of the Nomination Committee Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the Board, whose principal purpose is Nomination Committee to advise on the appointment and, if necessary, dismissal of executive and non-executive allocation of agenda time directors.
The Committees terms of reference, which are listed on the Groups website, include all matters required by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Group Company Secretary and the Chairman, and any changes are then referred to the Board for approval.
No changes were made to the terms of reference during the year.
Composition of the Nomination Committee As recommended by the Code, the Chairman of the Board acts as the Chairman of the Committee whose members also comprise the directors listed above.
To ensure executive input on nominations matters, the Chief Executive is also a member of the Committee.
The Chairman cannot chair the Committee when it is dealing with either the succession to the Chairmanship of the Group or the review of his own performance.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the Committee meetings.
Other individuals and external advisers may be invited to attend for all, or part of, any meeting when it is appropriate.
Board composition The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be an and succession planning 65% independent non-executive director.
Performance of Chairman and Group Chief Executive 20% The Group Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
Governance and The Committee has the authority to seek any information that is required, from any officer or reporting 10% employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
In connection with its duties, the Committee is authorised by the Board to take such independent advice including legal or other professional Independence and PI CHARTS advice, at the Groups expense as it considers necessary, including requests for information 5% re-election from, or commissioning investigations by, external advisers.
48 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Director appointment policy and progress The Committee has developed a formal rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
Prior to making any appointment, the Committee, having evaluated the skills, experience and diversity of the Board, will determine the qualities and experience they seek and will then prepare a detailed description of the role with a view to appointing the most appropriate candidate.
The Committee will use open advertising or the services of independent external advisers to facilitate the search.
A long list of candidates will be drawn up, from which an appropriate number will be selected for interview.
Upon completion the Committee will recommend to the Board the appointment of the preferred candidate.
Board succession planning Upon the retirement of R. Rajagopal at the 2016 AGM, he was replaced as Senior Independent Director by I.
P. Larmon joined the Board in September 2016 as Non-Executive Director.
After 17 years of service D. Landless, Group Finance Director, retired on 1 January 2017.
D. Yates was appointed Group Finance Director designate on 1 November 2016 and became Chief Financial Officer on 2 January 2017.
The Committee was advised by an international search consultancy, Zygos, in the process of identifying suitably qualified individuals.
Zygos has no other connections to Bodycote plc.
Main activities of the Nomination Committee In 2016 the Committee formally met seven times and reviewed the composition and skills of the Board, with a view to considering the current and future skills and experience that the Board might require.
The Committee discussed succession planning and Board diversity, and reviewed the performance of the Group Chief Executive and other senior executives.
In particular, the need to broaden the Board membership with respect to gender, ethnicity and age was discussed.
The Committee has sought to ensure that appointments are of the best candidates to promote the success of the Company and are based on merit, with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
Further information concerning Board diversity can be found on page 39 as part of the Corporate governance statement.
The Committee considered and authorised the potential conflicts of interest which might arise where a director has fiduciary responsibilities in respect of other organisations.
The Committee concluded that no inappropriate conflicts of interest exist.
The Committee also assigned the Chairman to review and agree with the Group Chief Executive his personal objectives for the forthcoming year.
Following the external Board evaluation in 2015, the Board agreed to undertake an internal evaluation during 2016.
Further details of the review can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
Recommendations arising from the 2016 Board evaluation are in the process of being addressed.
In December 2016 the Nomination Committee reviewed the Boards size and composition, the frequency of the process for Board and Committee meetings, and best practice for dealing with Board issues including drawing up a training and or induction programme for the directors.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed in conjunction with the Model Terms of Reference issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The biographical details of the current directors can be found on pages 36 and 37.
The Committee, having reviewed their independence and contribution to Board matters, confirms that the performance of each of the directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, including independence of judgement and time commitment for Board and Committee meetings.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that all current directors of the Company be proposed for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the AGM in May 2017 to answer questions relating to the work of the Committee.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee: A. M. Thomson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 28 February 2017 49 Stock code: BOY www.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
