Audit Committee report I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee report.
During the year, the Committee has reviewed the Groups financial reporting, risk management and internal control systems and maintained oversight of external and Internal Audit.
The Committee continues to play a fundamental role in protecting shareholders interests.
Ralph Findlay, Committee Chairman Overview Responsibilities and terms of reference During the year, the Committee reviewed the integrity of the The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Groups financial statements, with focus on significant areas of Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, the judgement, and kept operating, financial and accounting practices accompanying reports to shareholders and corporate under review.
The system for internal control, financial reporting governance statements, including reviewing the findings of the and risk management was monitored in the context of the growth external auditor.
of the Group and its effectiveness was reviewed.
Reporting from management, Internal Audit and the external auditor was openly Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of systems for internal debated, testing conclusions and audit judgements.
The effectiveness control, financial reporting and risk management.
of the Groups Internal Audit function received focus, a co-sourced Overseeing and reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
arrangement was put in place and an overall review of risk Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the management was commenced.
appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving Committee membership and meetings their remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Committee comprised three independent non-executive directors Reviewing and monitoring the external audit process and the until 15 November 2016, when the number increased to four.
independence and objectivity of the auditor, as well as the nature Between them they have the recent and relevant experience required and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness.
by the UK Corporate Governance Code and as a whole they have Developing the policy on the engagement of the external competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant Biographical details and information on skillsets are provided on ethical guidance.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Committee membership is determined by the Board following Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre recommendation from the Nomination Committee and is reviewed corporate-governance.
as part of the Committees performance evaluation.
Nigel Keen became a member of the Committee on his appointment as a Main activities during the year non-executive director on 15 November 2016.
The Company The Committee followed a programme structured around the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director were present annual reporting cycle and received reports from co-sourced Internal at all meetings in 2016 and attend meetings by invitation.
Audit, the external auditors and management.
The key activities The external auditors  LLP attended all undertaken were: meetings and Deloitte LLP attended one meeting as temporary co-sourced Internal Audit provider.
The former Internal Audit Discussed with the external auditors the key accounting Director attended one meeting and the Group Financial Controller considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results for attended two meetings.
Attendance Name Date of appointment Role at meetings Reviewed the 2015 annual report and accounts, so as to recommend to the Board that, taken as a whole, it was fair, Ralph Findlay 07 04 2015 Chairman 3 3 balanced and understandable.
appointed Chairman 15 05 15 Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 3 3 Assessed the results and effectiveness of the 2015 final audit.
Reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the key Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Chairman 2 3 accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Nigel Keen 15 11 2016 Member 1 1 Groups results for the six months ended 30 June 2016.
Evaluated and agreed the external auditors audit strategy The Committee met three times in 2016 and detailed papers and memorandum in advance of their 2016 year-end audit.
information were received sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration of matters for discussion.
The Committee Received reports from co-sourced Internal Audit covering various also met with the external auditors, without executive management aspects of the Groups regional operations, controls present, at the end of each meeting.
These discussions noted the and processes.
impact of significant growth on the business and the opportunities Completed a tender for co-sourced Internal Audit services for improvement in the control environment.
See page 57 for further towards the end of the year, resulting in the appointment of information on the control environment in 2016.
Ralph Findlay met Grant Thornton.
privately with the audit engagement partner of the external auditors during the year.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to Assessed the co-sourced Internal Audit providers draft audit plan the Committee.
An overview of the main activities during 2016 is and structure for 2017 to be followed by a full plan in early 2017. provided below.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 81 Audit Committee report Reviewed and assessed the Groups risk appetite.
The Committee receives a regular report on this provision, updated by management, at relevant Committee meetings.
At this year end Reviewed progress with an overall review of risk management, the paper proposed an immaterial adjustment, which was in line commenced to assess and improve the control environment, with the forecast position and had been audited by the external and the setting up of a Risk Governance Committee.
The written down sites and any adjustments proposed Reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control were discussed and justified by management and the land write and risk management systems and reported to the Board down provision remaining at the period end 3.0 million was that, although there were no material control weaknesses, reviewed, together with the profit attributable to the reversal of there was considerable scope for improvement in the the provision on the sale of written down units during the year, control environment.
which was not considered to be material.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the judgements exercised were Completed an assessment of fraud risk and anti-fraud measures.
appropriate and that the provision was appropriately stated at the Assessed an IT security review and the steps to be taken.
Details of the movements in the provision are provided in note 3.1 to the accounts on page 109.
Reviewed managements going concern assessment at each reporting period end, considering detailed financial forecasts, Available for sale financial assets - the assumptions used to future cash flow projections and the resources available to fair value available for sale financial assets, otherwise known the Group, including the current banking facility and forecast as shared equity and details of which are provided in note covenant compliance.
4.2 on pages 111 to 112, affects the carrying value on the balance sheet.
These assumptions require the exercise of Reviewed managements viability assessment for the year end significant judgement by management.
This is assessed reporting period covering strategic planning, principal risks, through the Committee discussing with management and the detailed financial forecasts, resources available to the Group, auditors the assumptions adopted and any adjustments made scenario testing, qualifications and assumptions and the to those assumptions, including, in particular, the long run period chosen.
HPI assumption and the discount rate which are the key Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
determinants of the expected final redemption value.
Following discussion the Committee considered that the Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing policy and assumptions adopted were reasonable.
arrangements, there having been two whistleblowing events during the year.
Margin recognition - the level of costs attributable to each legal completion affects the profit and margin recognised in the At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee discussed with income statement.
Certain site wide costs including land and the external auditor the key accounting considerations and infrastructure are allocated to individual legal completions on a judgements reflected in the Groups results for the year ended proportionate basis using an approximate measure for the area 31 December 2016 and reviewed the 2016 annual report and of land each housing plot utilises as the basis of allocation.
accounts, to be able to recommend to the Board that, taken The total costs allocated represent the combination of costs as a whole, it was fair, balanced and understandable and incurred to date and an estimate of the cost to complete.
provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess The assessment of cost to complete is based on the specific the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
details of each site and incorporates certain assumptions and The approach taken was to analyse key areas of progress and judgements by management.
The level of profit recognised in challenge during the year, followed by reviewing the 2016 the income statement is monitored throughout the year via annual report and accounts to ensure that all key areas had been the Groups usual budgeting, forecasting and management reported upon in a balanced and fair way.
The methodology adopted and the Groups Significant areas performance to date against expectations had been audited by the external auditors.
The key accounting judgements considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 accounts and discussed with the external Customer care provision - following legal completion, the Group auditors, were: provides a two year warranty that covers any defects which arise during that period.
The level of provision per completion is based Inventory provisioning - the level of inventory provisioning on actual costs incurred over the preceding twelve months.
impacts the carrying value of the most significant balance on the Judgement is applied in determining whether this level of balance sheet.
Since the downturn in the land market in 2008 provision is sufficient, or whether it should be adjusted to reflect the Company has carried a provision to write down the carrying the level of outstanding customer rectification works at the value of the land held within inventories to the lower of cost and balance sheet date.
net realisable value, less costs to sell, where this is less than the historical cost.
The assessment of the level of provision required, Land acquisitions - certain land acquisitions incorporate requires the exercise of judgement by management.
site specific terms for example overages, conditionality or ongoing obligations with the land owner.
82 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The key terms are assessed and appropriate accounting entries made When an approval request is made, the Committee has due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditor for such acquisitions where they impact the balance sheet land value.
is a suitable supplier, and whether there is likely to be any threat to The material and complex land transactions in the year were independence and objectivity in the conduct of the audit.
substantively audited by the external auditors.
Management review and understand the impact of the key terms of each land transaction The related fee level, both separately and relative to the audit fee is as part of the acquisition process and in line with an escalating also considered.
For an analysis of fees paid to PwC for audit services system of approval based on materiality certain acquisitions are see note 2.1 on page 107.
There were no non-assurance services appropriately assessed by the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
provided by PwC during the year.
The external auditors reported on relevant transactions to the Audit Committee and following discussion the Committee considered the Internal Audit accounting to be appropriate.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function during 2015 and in early 2016, with the conclusion External auditors that there were opportunities for improvement.
A co-sourced  LLP PwC were appointed as external approach was adopted and Deloitte LLP were appointed on a auditor at the 2015 AGM, following the completion of a competitive temporary basis to complete a number of regional reviews and audit tender process supervised by the Committee.
In doing so, to provide other support.
A tender for co-sourced Internal Audit the Committee complied with the provisions of the Competition services was then completed towards the end of the year, & Markets Authority Order.
Our 2017 AGM Notice contains which resulted in the appointment of Grant Thornton on a a resolution for the re-appointment of PwC as auditors to the permanent basis.
The appointment is intended to provide the Company.
In making this recommendation, the Committee took into expertise and experience necessary to support the delivery account, amongst other matters, the independence and objectivity of effective Internal Audit services and to assist in securing of PwC, the effectiveness of the external audit process and cost.
improvement in the control environment.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditor.
The AGM Notice also contains a resolution to give the directors Performance evaluation authority to determine the auditors remuneration, which provides a The Committee undertook a self-assessment process in January practical flexibility to the Committee.
2017 to review the Committees performance, the effectiveness of the external auditor, and the Groups Internal Audit function.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the independence The Committee is considered to be effective, with members having a and objectivity of the external auditor, which was confirmed in good mix of skills and experience to provide an appropriate level of an independence letter containing information on procedures challenge when debating the reports, statements and findings providing safeguards established by the external auditor.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the external Regulation, professional requirements and ethical standards auditor, the Committee considers PwC to have carried out a high were taken into account, together with consideration of all quality audit in the second year since appointment, having relationships between the Company and PwC and their staff.
established effective working relationships and gained a good Relations with the external auditors are managed through a series understanding of the Groups business.
The Committee was satisfied of meetings and regular discussions and we ensure a high quality with the scope of the external audit, and that PwC demonstrate audit by challenging the key areas of the external auditors work.
independence having reviewed all services provided to the Group by them.
The Committee believes the external audit to be effective.
At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee reviewed the In relation to Internal Audit, following a review the Committee effectiveness of the external audit process as part of its consideration adopted a co-sourced approach for 2016 and will keep the of the 2016 final audit.
This involved assessing delivery and content effectiveness of the arrangement under review during 2017 against the audit plan for the 2016 year end audit, including as it assesses the quality of services provided by the Internal determination of audit risks and significant areas of judgement, Audit function and the delivery of improvements in the consideration of the performance and communication of the audit control environment.
Finally, the evaluation also concluded that team, and the quality of reporting, observations, recommendations the Committee had appropriate terms of reference and had and insight.
It also included reviewing comprehensive papers from fulfilled its remit in 2016. the external auditors, discussing and challenging their conclusions and audit judgements and assessing responses from the external auditor.
Lastly, feedback was taken on the effectiveness and conduct Ralph Findlay of the audit from those involved, including feedback from the Chairman of the Audit Committee regional businesses on visits to the regions, which was positive.
20 February 2017 The Committee keeps under review its policy which requires the Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and audit related services, which are treated as pre-approved.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 83 84 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Marine Drive Teignmouth Bovis Homes Group PLC | 85
