Nomination Committee report The Committee has kept the balance and composition of the Board under review, maintained its focus on succession planning and made one nomination for appointment to the Board.
Ian Tyler, Committee Chairman Considering succession planning for directors and senior Overview executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities The Committee has continued to maintain a watching brief on facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed in the knowledge, skills and experience available to the Board, both the future.
in light of anticipated future challenges and the more complex Monitoring the leadership needs of the Company and leading nature of the business.
Succession planning was also kept under the process for Board appointments, ensuring they are review and diversity is naturally part of this oversight.
Having conducted on merit, against objective criteria including diversity, considered the experience and insight the appointment would using the services of an appropriate external search consultant.
bring, one new non-executive director was recommended for appointment and Nigel Keen joined the Board in November 2016.
Making recommendations to the Board, including on the The Committee commenced the recruitment of a new Chief re-appointment of non-executive directors, the re-election Executive in early 2017 and will continue to monitor the balance of directors at the AGM, and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
and composition of the Board as the future direction of the Group unfolds.
Information on the Boards skillset is set out on The Committee also reviews the results of the Board performance pages 48 to 49, together with biographies.
evaluation relating to the composition of the Board.
External legal or other independent professional advice can be obtained at the Committee membership and meetings Companys expense, although this facility was not utilised during All members of the Committee are independent non-executive the year.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre and, during 2016, the former Chief Executive.
the Committee during the year and the other members of the Main activities during the year Committee were Alastair Lyons, Chris Browne, Ralph Findlay, The main activities during the first part of 2016 were focused on Nigel Keen from 15 November 2016 and David Ritchie.
non-executive recruitment and succession planning.
Having Attendance Name Date of appointment Role at meetings considered the knowledge, skills and experience required and the need for greater land and property expertise, the Committee Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 7 7 recommended the appointment of Nigel Keen as a non-executive director.
Nigel was appointed on 15 November 2016.
A formal, Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 7 7 comprehensive and tailored induction is being provided for Nigel, Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 6 7 including visits to the regional offices, site visits and meetings with senior management.
Ralph Findlay 07 04 2015 Member 7 7 Nigel Keen 15 11 2016 Member 1 1 A summary of the Committees activities during 2016 follows: David Ritchie 03 07 2008 Member 7 7 Keeping the structure, size and composition of the Board under resigned 09 01 17 review, concluding that the Board balance and composition should be supplemented by an additional non-executive director.
The Committee met seven times in 2016, with the key focus in the first part of the year being on Board composition and the Running the recruitment process for a new non-executive recruitment of a non-executive director.
A recommendation for director, using objective criteria and the external search services appointment followed.
Later in the year the Committee reviewed of The Zygos Partnership who have no other connection with the diversity policy, considered succession planning and approved the Company, including recommendation of appointment to two new service contracts for current non-executive directors.
For all meetings, papers and supporting documentation were Considering succession planning as the Group becomes more circulated sufficiently in advance to allow proper consideration complex, with a view to future requirements.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Recommending the directors to stand for re-election at the 2016 secretary to the Committee.
AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Responsibilities and terms of reference Approving the Nomination Committee report for the 2015 Annual Report.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board Reviewing the Committees terms of reference.
including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and to Setting a Committee timetable for 2017. make recommendations to the Board.
86 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Hampton Lea Malpas Non-executive directors service contracts are renewed on an annual important consideration as part of the objective criteria used to assess basis following the conclusion of a second three year term, subject candidates to achieve a balanced board.
The decision was taken to satisfactory performance and there being no need to re-balance not to set measurable objectives and the Committee continues to the Board, with the third year of the third term extending until the consider boardroom diversity in all its succession planning discussions.
Having served for eight years, a recommendation Performance evaluation was made to the Board that the service contract for Alastair Lyons be renewed for a further term running until the 2018 AGM.
An evaluation of the performance of the Board Committees was A recommendation was also made to the Board that the service completed as part of the internal formal evaluation of the Board, contract for Ian Tyler be renewed for a further three year term.
completed at the start of 2017.
The Committee was found to be These decisions followed rigorous review, including the contribution, effective and it was concluded that it had fulfilled its remit in 2016 performance and commitment of Alastair and Ian and the and had appropriate terms of reference.
composition of the Board as a whole.
The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly supported and Ian Tyler the Committee reviewed the diversity policy, first published in Chairman of the Nomination Committee September 2011.
The policy sets out that appointments to the Board will always be based on merit, so that the Board has the 20 February 2017 right individuals in place.
It also explains that diversity is seen as an Bovis Homes Group PLC | 87
