Corporate governance report 2016 was a challenging year for Bovis Homes.
We delivered profitability and volume below expectations and were not able to achieve an improvement in returns, as operational challenges towards the year end interrupted the planned delivery of the Groups growth strategy in 2016.
Positively, we slowed our land investment in the second half in response to market conditions, maintained our efficient management of capital and, although our return on capital employed fell back from 18.3% to 17.0%, our Ian Tyler capital turn was again in excess of one times.
Chairman Recognising the challenges faced by the Company and their The non-executive directors continued to be effective in providing causation, the Board has reviewed the immediate operational constructive challenge in Board meetings and in testing proposals priorities for 2017 and the outcome, together with our put forward by the executive directors, together with the determined approach to governance and a range of initiatives supporting assumptions.
An internal formal Board evaluation already underway, is expected to feed through into improved was carried out at the beginning of 2017, which has provided operational performance and a range of benefits in the short valuable insights.
Further information is provided on pages 54 to term.
Further to this, we will complete a fundamental review 55, including the objectives we will be pursuing during 2017. of our operations during 2017.
We remain a viable and well The Committees also performed effectively during 2016. positioned housebuilder, with the objective of improving Our corporate governance practices remain aligned with the shareholder returns in a sustainable business that delivers quality latest version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the homes to satisfied customers.
Board reviewed its policy on diversity, which says that we will The Board has ultimate responsibility for the success of the always make appointments to the Board based on merit.
Company and my task focuses on ensuring that it provides I was delighted to welcome Nigel Keen, Property and strong strategic leadership and monitors the delivery of strategic Development Director of the John Lewis Partnership, to the Board priorities and objectives, whilst having an eye on the principal as a non-executive director in November 2016.
In doing so, the Board must uphold the highest standards property, construction and customer experience and is already of integrity and promote effective relationships, communication, establishing himself as a valuable Board member.
openness and accountability in the boardroom, throughout the I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their business and externally with stakeholders.
Rebuilding trust has collective support and strong individual contributions during never been more important and high standards of corporate 2016.
David Ritchie stepped down as Chief Executive on governance help to underpin this process.
Culture and values 9 January 2017, after eight and a half years in the role and over play a vital role in delivering long term success and require 18 years with the Company, and I would like to thank him for his continuous focus, whilst the right standards and behaviours determined and valuable contribution during this time.
A search enable the Board to function effectively in supporting and for a permanent Chief Executive is underway.
overseeing senior management as they drive, reinforce and embed the Groups culture and values.
Progress was established We value dialogue with all our shareholders, institutional and in this area in 2016 and a number of initiatives already underway retail, and I have already met with a number of our major will move us forward in 2017, driving the right attitudes and shareholders this year.
Our 2017 AGM will be held on behaviours and helping the operations improve performance and 2 May 2017 and you will find the Notice at the end of this function effectively, particularly in the areas of build programme Annual Report.
This report has been approved by the Board and I can confirm The Board had an eventful year in 2016 and again made that, during 2016, your Company was compliant with the several visits to the regions, creating the opportunity for closer provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
interaction with the regional teams and the development of a greater understanding of their challenges and concerns.
Progress with delivery of the Groups strategy was monitored and it was reviewed and tested at the Boards strategy day.
Other regular activities included monitoring of principal risks and scrutiny of health and safety performance, customer satisfaction Ian Tyler performance, and delivery of build production.
Chairman Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC || 51 51 Corporate governance report Introduction The leadership structure This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the long-term success of the Group and its values, strategy, business Financial Reporting Council publicly available at www.
It establishes culture, provides leadership org.
uk and also describes how the governance framework, and sets the Groups strategic objectives.
Business plans, explained in our corporate governance policy guidelines, budgets and forecasts are reviewed, challenged and approved available on the Companys website www.
and progress and overall performance is monitored, applying co. uk investor-centre corporate-governance, is applied.
The schedule of matters reserved for The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, the Board is reviewed and approved on an annual basis by throughout 2016, complied with and applied the provisions of the Board and a copy is available on the Companys website the UK Corporate Governance Code, as explained below.
The governance structure in 2016 and for 2017 is shown below.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Board Responsible for leadership, strategy, values and governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Oversees financial Sets and reviews Reviews balance and statements and reporting remuneration policy composition of the Board Monitors internal controls Determines remuneration Maintains focus on and risk management and incentives of the succession planning Executive Leadership Team executive directors and the Bovis Homes Limited Board Monitors effectiveness Leads recruitment process Chairman of external and internal for the Board Responsible for the operations of the Group auditors Sets performance criteria Recommends for incentive plans appointment of directors West Division board East Division board Responsible for the operational Responsible for the operational management of the West Division management of the East Division Northern Home Mercia region West Midlands Eastern region Counties region board region board board board Western region South West Thames Valley Southern region board region board region board board 52 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The Board Following the year-end, David Ritchie stepped down as Chief From the start of the year until 15 November 2016, the Board Executive on 9 January 2017 and Earl Sibley, Group Finance comprised the non-executive Chairman, three independent nonDirector, was appointed Interim Chief Executive on the same date.
executive and two executive directors.
Nigel Keen was appointed This reduced the number of executive directors to one.
The Board on 15 November 2016, increasing the number of independent commenced the recruitment of a new Chief Executive in early 2017. non-executive directors to four.
The provision of a formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is ongoing for Nigel, which Biographical details for the directors are provided on page 49. includes visits to the regional offices, site visits and meetings with Their dates of appointment retirement, length of service to the senior management.
end of 2016 and attendance at Board meetings in 2016 are shown below.
Tenure in Attendance Name Date of appointment Current role current role at meetings Ian Tyler 29 11 13 Chairman 3 years 11 11 Alastair Lyons 01 10 08 Deputy Chairman 8.25 years 11 11 Chris Browne 01 09 14 Non-executive 2.3 years 10 11 Ralph Findlay 07 04 15 Non-executive 1.75 years 11 11 Nigel Keen 15 11 16 Non-executive 1.5 months 3 3 David Ritchie resigned 09 01 17 01 07 02 Former Chief Executive 8.5 years 11 11 Earl Sibley 16 04 15 Group Finance Director during 2016 1.75 years 11 11 Interim Chief Executive since 09 01 17 The Board benefits from a broad range of expertise and experience All the directors have service agreements or contracts and the and has a strong blend of skills, which has allowed it to perform details are set out in the current remuneration policy, available at effectively during a challenging year for the business.
executive Chairman brings a strong track record of commercial In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and as permitted by experience in construction and infrastructure related industries, which the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has authorised benefit the Group in the delivery of its strategy and oversight of its any conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are business plans and performance.
Alastair Lyons has a broad base of reviewed annually.
The Board is satisfied that powers to authorise business experience, with a particular focus on mortgage lending and actual and potential conflicts are operating effectively.
insurance industries and including chairing listed companies.
Chris Browne brings a strong commercial and operational background Board meetings from a consumer facing industry and Ralph Findlay adds strong There were eleven meetings during 2016.
The Board maintains commercial, financial and general management expertise, again from and reviews a rolling agenda plan, which ensures that all key issues a consumer facing industry.
Nigel Keen adds an in-depth construction and matters reserved to the Board are discussed at the appropriate and property background and experience of running property time.
The Chairman reviews meeting agendas with the Interim strategy and portfolios, once again from a consumer facing industry.
Chief Executive and Company Secretary and the Company Secretary The four non-executive directors have been determined by the maintains a rolling schedule of matters arising and progress with Board to be independent in character and judgement with no actions which is reviewed at each meeting.
relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or that could appear The Board receives a comprehensive electronic meeting pack a to affect, their judgement.
week in advance of each meeting plus other information required All the directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in an forthcoming AGM, in accordance with the Code.
The Board strongly atmosphere of open and free flowing discussion and debate, with a supports all the individual directors re-elections, taking account of questioning approach which enables the non-executive directors to the balance of skills and expertise and the performance of the Board challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by as a whole.
The Chief Operating Officer, Keith Carnegie, attended all meetings in 2016, increasing the range of views and the input available to the non-executive directors.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 53 Corporate governance report At each Board meeting during 2016: the Chief Executive provided a review of business and The Boards site visit to current trading performance, recent developments and the Groups Wokingham strategic issues.
development the Group Finance Director provided a financial review, including results and latest projections, budgets, rolling In the middle of October 2016, the Board visited forecasts, Group KPIs, leading market indicators and an Thames Valley regions Emmbrook Place, Wokingham analysis of share price valuation and movements.
Opened in June 2016 and the Board received regular reports covering health and located close to the M4, the site offers two, three, safety, customer satisfaction, key operational areas, investor four and five bedroom homes in a semi-rural setting, relations, major shareholdings and litigation.
convenient for local living and commuting to Reading and London.
The sales office provided the backdrop for At particular points in the year, the Board reviewed: discussion with regional management and sales staff, the Groups mission, vision and values and the action being covering the local market, production, sales rates and taken to reinforce them throughout the Group.
customer satisfaction, coupled with a viewing of the show homes.
strategy, principal risks and mitigation, financial statements, regulatory announcements and dividend policy.
A tour of the construction site followed, led by the site updates on large strategic projects.
manager, which allowed feedback to be given by site staff on progress with the build programme, site specific issues, progress with an overall review of risk management.
welfare and health and safety performance.
Returning to succession planning and organisational development.
the sales office, a discussion summarising the sites overall performance concluded the visit.
the results of the 2016 staff engagement survey.
actions arising from the 2015 Board performance evaluation.
The Board also reviewed other topics, such as the market environment, land acquisitions, land sales, analysis of competitors, investor and analyst feedback, and the process for the longer term viability statement.
Presentations were received on an operational review and business priorities, succession planning, the Market Abuse Regulation and other governance and regulatory developments.
Five meetings were held in London and six were held in the regions, with three providing further opportunity to interact with local management teams.
Three regions provided presentations to the Board at these meetings in open discussion and question and answer sessions.
One meeting was followed Ensuring an effective Board by an evening meeting with the Executive Leadership Team the senior management below the Board and the Board also met The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of its own its members at other points in the year.
Visits to sites, including performance at the beginning of 2017.
Independent Audits product viewings, took place in three regions.
Thinking Board questionnaire software was used to capture views on the functioning of the Board in 2016 in areas of The annual strategy day held in July provided the Board with strategic decision making, long term thinking, assessing risks, the opportunity for an in-depth review of the mid-term strategy the business model and risk strategy.
The Chairman completed for the Group and was preceded by an evening starter session.
interviews to explore and expand on the views expressed and a The Chairman also held a meeting with the non-executive draft report was prepared and discussed by the Board.
directors, without the executives present, during the year.
The overall result of the evaluation reflected the challenges that the business has had in 2016.
Whilst the underlying direction, culture and management of the Board were strong, the evaluation identified the material areas on which the Board will focus particularly in 2017.
54 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The Board completed its second external independent performance Culture evaluation of its own performance towards the end of 2014.
Non-executive directors have a good and open relationship with This was conducted by Independent Audit, who have no other both executive directors and executive management and the Board connection with the Company and comprised a thorough review as a whole meets regularly with regional management teams.
of Board materials, followed by a confidential interview process.
The Board recognised in 2015 that cultural and organisational The Board then completed an internal formal evaluation of its own change was necessary to improve our service to customers and performance for 2015 at the start of 2016 and set out an action handle effectively the strategic growth plans, and a programme of change was put forward by management and agreed by plan in the 2015 Annual Report.
In pursuing this plan during 2016 the Board.
In the light of the operational challenges experienced the Board: in 2016 it is clear that whilst progress was made insufficient commenced the overseeing of a process designed to reinforce and change was achieved.
The Board will place greater emphasis on embed the Groups mission, vision and values across the business understanding the relationship between central, divisional and and with every member of staff.
regional management, the impact that has on the development of an accountable and customer centered culture across the business, continued to review, flex and adapt the Boards agenda plan to and on identifying measures of the extent to which the required suit requirements and enhance meeting effectiveness.
changes to culture and practice become embedded in the business.
increased its focus on leadership development and its Succession planning understanding of talent management and succession planning for senior management.
The Group has a robust process to identify and evaluate the succession pipeline for key roles in the business and the Board progressed the Boards understanding of market trends and has good visibility of the outcome of this process.
However, in developments as they impact the sector and our customers light of senior staff turnover, the Board will focus more directly through reports, presentations and discussion.
on ensuring the identification by management of the skills and characteristics necessary in each role to deliver the Groups strategy The performance evaluation of the Chairman was led by the in an increasingly challenging environment, and the development of Senior Independent Director, with input from all other members individuals capable of achieving this.
It was again considered that the Board had been effective under the Chairmans leadership with well-planned Risk management meetings, appropriate agendas based on a good understanding of In general, the management of risk is embedded throughout the the Companys business model and strategy, and broad effective Group and the Board actively considers the level and management contribution by directors.
Board meetings continue to be held in of risk in its deliberations.
However, greater focus will be given to a conducive environment with a strong focus on the important the impact and visibility of customer service and quality failures issues and open debate and constructive challenge.
The Chairman on the Groups wider reputation.
The Board will also review the maintained good and effective working relationships with both identification and reporting of risk indicators, in particular nonexecutive and non-executive directors during the year and spent financial, which provide early warning of developing issues ahead of significant time both on sites and with the Companys executives and these being manifest in financial reporting.
He also maintained constructive dialogue Strategy and execution with the Companys principal institutional investors, providing useful feedback to the Boards assessment of the Companys progress.
Whereas the Board believes the business has developed a clear, appropriate, and executable strategy it recognizes that, despite the Board committees Boards regular reviews of progress and performance with regional teams, management reporting failed to identify in a timely manner The Board is supported by standing Audit, Nomination and the operational pressures to which the business was subject, and the Remuneration Committees and their memberships, roles and activities material weaknesses in the Groups production planning capability are set out in separate reports: The Audit Committee report is on from which stemmed the customer service issues that have arisen.
pages 81 to 83, the Nomination Committee report is on pages 86 It has, therefore, instigated a full review both of the Groups and 87, and the Remuneration Committee report is on pages 59 production planning process and the Groups approach to to 80.
Each Committee reports to and has terms of reference customer service.
approved by the Board and the minutes of Committee meetings are Reward structure circulated to and are reviewed by the Board.
The Board believes that the measures of performance adopted for The Audit Committee is chaired by Ralph Findlay, the Remuneration variable reward focused too heavily on financial performance at the Committee is chaired by Alastair Lyons and the Nomination expense of measures such as customer satisfaction and operational Committee is chaired by Ian Tyler.
delivery against plan that in turn reflected the underlying health of the business.
The Board is therefore proposing consequent changes The Board completed a performance evaluation of its Committees to the Groups variable reward measures in this years directors during early 2017 and all were found to be effective and working remuneration policy.
well, with all achieving their respective remits.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 55 Corporate governance report Training is made available to directors when required and the Governance through the business Chairman is responsible for ensuring that directors continually The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it update and refresh their knowledge and skills and awareness of fits with our business model, organisational structure the culture and operations of the Company, as appropriate to and approach.
Further details are set out below.
their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During 2016 Amongst matters reserved for the Board are leadership of the directors received training on the Market Abuse Regulation the Group, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of and other governance and regulatory developments.
operations and performance, capital structure, financial The Company has an insurance policy in place which insures reporting, internal controls and approval of major expenditure directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
Information on share capital is provided on page 89.
The Board has approved a written division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Shareholder engagement and the role of the non-executive Deputy Chairman has been The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme, similarly defined.
which allows the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to The Chairman is primarily responsible for: regularly engage with our major shareholders.
In addition to onethe effective working of the Board, to-one meetings through the year, the Company holds a series of presentations and meetings following the announcement of the taking a leading role in determining the Boards composition final and half-yearly results.
These presentations are made publicly and structure, and available so that all shareholders can access them on the Groups ensuring that effective communications are maintained website at www.
The Board reviews feedback on investor relations meetings, The Chief Executive is responsible for: visits and presentations, including the matters communicated and discussed.
During 2016, the feedback received was helpful to the operational management of the Group, the Board and the Chairman held a number of discussions and developing strategic operating plans and presenting them to meetings with major shareholders.
the Board, and The Board also values other channels to obtain shareholders the implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are aware of any issues or concerns that major shareholders The Deputy Chairman supports the Chairman in ensuring that may have.
In addition, the Deputy Chairman also the Senior the Board is effective and constructive relations are maintained, Independent Director is accessible to shareholders.
in addition to acting as the Senior Independent Director, in which capacity he leads the annual performance evaluation of All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact which this year will be held on 2 May 2017.
The full Board, for shareholders.
including all Committee Chairmen, attend and value this meeting as a means of communicating with private investors, encouraging The Companys Management Paper is subject to Board review.
All shareholders have the opportunity to It contains controls, authorities and procedures across the range exercise their right to vote and can appoint proxies if they are of the Groups activities and includes the authorities and decision unable to attend.
To facilitate this we provide an electronic voting making delegated by the Board to management.
Shareholders attending the AGM have the opportunity to The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary ask questions relevant to the business of the meeting and hear the are available to the directors.
All directors have access to the views of other shareholders before casting their vote.
After the Companys professional advisers and can seek independent meeting the results of voting on all resolutions are published on professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice the Groups website was sought during the year.
Risk management and internal control The Board has responsibility for maintaining and monitoring sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Boards role includes responsibility for the risk appetite and the identification, management and mitigation of risk.
Risk is a regular agenda item, which allows the directors to review the risk appetite and principal risks and assess the quality of risk management processes and risk mitigation.
56 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance In setting its approach, the Board aims to ensure that the Company It is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material unreasonable risk.
Monitoring and review forms part of the work undertaken by Control framework the Audit Committee and is based principally on reviewing The Company maintains a comprehensive control environment, reports from the co-sourced Internal Audit function and from which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The principal elements management and covers all material controls, including financial, of the control environment include regular board meetings, the operational and compliance controls and compliance with risk Division and regional structure, defined operating controls and management processes.
authorisation limits, a co-sourced Internal Audit function and a comprehensive financial reporting system.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and risk management systems, the Board i considered the There are a number of elements of the Companys internal control risk appetite and ii reviewed changes in the nature, likelihood and and risk management systems that are specifically related to the impact of the principal risks, their mitigation, the controls placed Companys financial reporting process: against them and the Companys ability to respond to changes at separate stages during the year and iii received reports from the there is a well understood management structure which allows Audit Committee on the operation and effectiveness of the risk for clear accountability and an appropriately granular level of management and internal controls systems and their integration financial control.
with strategy and the business model, which included review the structure is underpinned by documented authority levels of the minutes of Committee meetings.
Recommendations for for business transactions laid out in the Companys improvements to internal controls were made during the year and Management Paper.
corrective action was taken, but they did not represent significant control failings or weaknesses.
the process is further supported by process documents for both internal management reporting and external reporting which A consequence of a period of ambitious growth has been that stipulates, amongst other things, reporting timetables and the considerable operational pressures and challenges were experienced, contents of key management reports.
resulting from the cumulative effect of delayed build programmes and a shortage of sub-contract labour, leading to operational The Company maintains computer systems that record financial difficulties, which peaked in December 2016.
The result was, firstly, a transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the co-sourced shortfall in private completions in December and, secondly, customers Internal Audit function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising from not receiving the level of service we wish to provide.
Weaknesses these exercises are reported to the Audit Committee and action is in the application of operational and customer service controls taken, as appropriate.
manifested themselves as control failures under these pressures, with Control over cash expenditure is a key component.
The Company the outcome that, whilst the controls are fit for purpose, they were maintains tight control in this area through a centralised payment not fully effective in maintaining operational control in respect of function, regularly maintained authorisation documents and quality and customer service.
The Board has reviewed events leading segregation of authorisation accountability.
up to the year-end and the causation of the control failures and reasserted the importance of leadership and the right behaviours The Company maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial and of controls being properly applied by the business.
It has also reporting cycle, allowing management to assess financial progress.
put a clear set of operational priorities in place, including a focus This is further supported by a formal budget and monthly forecasting on customer service, a review of customer service procedures and process which ensures that there is a recent financial forecast in place controls, and an end to end review of the build process.
The Audit at all times against which to assess performance.
Together with this Committee will review build programme delivery and customer financial reporting, the Company requires its divisional and regional service controls and the immediate measures taken to strengthen management teams to report key business issues as part of a monthly their effectiveness and to reduce operational pressures and it will regional operational reporting pack on a standard basis.
monitor the outcome of the reviews put in place by the Board.
Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which ensures The Board has complied with Principle C. 2 of the Code by completing that there is an audit trail between the output from the Companys a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and it financial reporting system and the financial statements as they are has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and prepared for reporting.
managing the principal risks, in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and includes compliance with provision C. 2.3.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 57 Saxon Lea Sandbach 58 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance
