Corporate governance Nomination committee Chairmans and nomination committees Role of the committee The committee ensures an orderly succession of candidates for directors and the company secretary.
Key responsibilities Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment or reappointment as directors.
Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as company secretary.
Keep the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the board under review to ensure the orderly succession of directors.
Review the outside directorship commitments of non-executive directors.
Chairmans introduction Members The chairmans and nomination committees have been actively involved in the evolution of the board and its work in 2016.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Member since September 2009 Carl-Henric Svanberg and chair since January 2010 Committees chair Alan Boeckmann Member since April 2016 Ann Dowling Member since May 2015 Ian Davis Member since August 2010 Chairmans committee John Sawers Member since April 2016 Role of the committee Andrew Shilston Member since May 2015: To provide a forum for matters to be discussed among the nonattended meetings previously executive directors.
as senior independent director Key responsibilities Alan Boeckmann and Sir John Sawers joined the committee in 2016.
Evaluate the performance and the effectiveness of the group chief Paul Anderson and Brendan Nelson stood down, and Antony Burgmans executive.
left on his retirement from the board.
Review the structure and effectiveness of the business organization.
Review the systems for senior executive development and determine Meetings and attendance succession plans for the group chief executive, executive directors and The committee met five times during the year.
All directors attended other senior members of executive management.
each meeting that they were eligible to attend.
Determine any other matter that is appropriate to be considered by non-executive directors.
Activities during the year Opine on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committees The committee continued to keep the composition and skills of the comprised solely of non-executive directors.
Cynthia Carroll and Andrew Shilston will be standing down from Members the board in 2017 and there will be further retirements in 2018.
The The committee comprises all the non-executive directors.
Directors committee focused on maintaining a strong group of current and former join the committee immediately on their appointment to the board.
chief executives, while ensuring appropriate diversity in all forms.
The group chief executive attends meetings of the committee when requested.
The committee appointed Nils Andersen, the former CEO of Maersk, to the board in October 2016.
A search has been initiated for further candidates with the intent of maintaining the gender diversity on the Meetings and attendance board, and as a result the board is proposing Melody Meyer for election The committee met seven times in 2016.
All directors attended every as a director at the 2017 AGM.
meeting for which they were eligible, with the exception of Cynthia Carroll who did not attend the meeting on 26 May as she had to attend a The board as a whole considers succession planning and diversity as family event.
The chairman did not attend the meeting on 28 January as discussed on pages 64-65. it was for his evaluation.
Committee evaluation Activities during the year The evaluation concluded that the committee was generally working Evaluated the performance of the chairman and the group chief well.
It was important to ensure that future work would be focused on executive.
building a board capable of governing the company as it implements its Reviewed the evolution of the companys strategy given anticipated strategy towards 2021 and beyond.
There should be a strong continued market conditions over the coming decade and the approach adopted focus on diversity.
Assessed the prioritization of investment opportunities.
Considered succession plans for the senior executive team.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 79
