Corporate governance Committee reports Role of the committee Audit committee The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial reporting, systems of internal control and risk management and the integrity of the groups external and internal audit processes.
Key responsibilities Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation of financial risks is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive and that the system of internal control is designed and implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board executive limitations as set out in the BP board governance principles.
Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function, BPs internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and The committee has focused on the financial performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit performance of the group in a challenging process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services to BP.
external environment over the year.
Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
Chairmans introduction Members The committee has focused on the financial performance of the group in a challenging external environment over the year.
Issues considered Brendan Nelson Member since November included the impact of weak commodity prices on oil and gas 2010: chair since April 2011 accounting judgements and asset carrying values and how changes in key long-term price assumptions impacted investment appraisals.
Nils Andersen Member since October 2016 A significant activity of the committee in 2016 was the tender of the Phuthuma Nhleko Member from February 2011 to external audit.
I believe the tender process was thorough, open and April 2016 transparent and I was pleased that the governance arrangements put in Paula Reynolds Member since May 2015 place enabled the committee to make a decision based on high quality proposals put forward by all the firms involved.
Subject to approval by Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012 shareholders, we look forward to working with Deloitte as our new auditor from 2018.
We thank EY for their strong professional standards Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly and all they have done to provide assurance to the board during their vice chairman of KPMG and president of the Institute of Chartered time as BPs auditor.
Currently he is chairman of the group audit Phuthuma Nhleko retired from the committee in April 2016.
He brought committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and a member thoughtfulness and challenge to the debate in the committee and I thank of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
The board is satisfied that him for his contribution during his tenure.
I welcome Nils Andersen who Mr Nelson is the audit committee member with recent and relevant joined the committee in October 2016 and has commercial experience financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code from a career in energy, shipping and consumer goods.
I believe that and competence in accounting and auditing as required by the FCAs the deep and varied experience of the committee members gives Corporate Governance Rules in DTR7.
It considers that the committee perspective and insight to our discussions with management.
as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to Brendan Nelson address, as well as competence in the oil and gas sector.
The board also Committee chair determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F.
Meetings and attendance There were 14 committee meetings in 2016, of which five were carried out by teleconference.
All directors attended every meeting during the period in which they were committee members.
Regular attendees at the committee meetings include the chief financial officer, group controller, chief accounting officer, group head of audit and external auditor.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 69 Activities during the year Financial disclosure proposals, the cost of capital and risks and financial group risks, its application as a discount rate to including taxation matters and The committee reviewed the and provided the information evaluate long-term BP business the groups process to assess, quarterly, half-year and annual necessary for shareholders to projects, liquidity including mitigate and monitor them.
financial statements with assess the groups position credit rating, hedging, long-term BPs principal risks are listed on management, focusing on: and performance, business commercial commitments and page 49. model and strategy.
It made a Integrity and clarity of credit risk and the effectiveness recommendation to the board For 2017, the board has agreed disclosure.
and efficiency of the capital who in turn reviewed the report that the committee will continue Compliance with relevant legal investment into major projects.
The boards review and financial reporting to monitor the same four group The committee examined the and conclusions are set out on standards.
risks as for 2016. groups information technology page 112.
Application of critical accounting policies and Other disclosures reviewed judgements.
included: The committee considered the Other reviews Oil and gas reserves.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F Pensions and post-retirement Other reviews undertaken during Procurement: including BPs 2016 and was delegated by the benefits assumptions.
2016 by the committee included: procurement spend profile, key board to undertake final review Viability statement.
and sign off of the document.
Upstream: including financial Asset carrying values: insight The audit committee reviewed Going concern.
performance, strategy and into the groups approach to whether the Annual Report was Risk factors.
how the Upstream finance reviewing asset carrying values fair, balanced and understandable Legal liabilities.
function supports the for financial reporting segment.
purposes, particularly in the Other businesses and Upstream segment including corporate: including the various IFRS requirements and BPs Risk reviews business and functional policies.
activities which constitute Financial metrics proposed for The principal risks allocated to the business integrity and ethics Other businesses and BPs new remuneration policy: audit committee for monitoring in and compliance functions, corporate and how the group consideration of potential 2016 included those associated development of the anti-bribery finance organization supports financial metrics for inclusion in with: and corruption elements of these activities and the broad the annual bonus and the programme, enhanced framework of financial control.
Trading activities: including long-term incentive plan policies, tools and training and risks arising from shortcomings elements of the new policy.
strengthening of counterparty risk or failures in systems, risk measures, including due diligence.
management methodology, internal control processes or Security threats against BPs Internal control and risk management employees.
digital infrastructure: including inappropriate access to or misuse During the year the committee committee met privately with In reviewing this risk, the of information and systems and received quarterly reports on the group head of audit and key committee focused on disruption of business activity.
the findings of group audit.
It members of his leadership team.
developments in the external reviewed the scope, activity market and how BPs trading The committee reviewed changes The audit committee also held and effectiveness of the function had responded including in the cybersecurity landscape, private meetings with the group group audit function, with a new areas of activity and impacts including events in the energy, ethics and compliance officer focus on how changes in the on the control environment.
The oil and gas industry and within during the year.
organizational structure had been committee further considered BP itself.
In addition, the updates in the trading functions on the improvements made in risk management programme, managing cyber risk, including the including compliance with application of the three lines of regulatory developments.
defence model and the committee Training examined indicators associated Compliance with applicable The committee held learning events on the Modern Slavery Act and with risk management and barrier laws and regulations: including global trends in corporate fraud.
It received technical updates from the performance.
ethical misconduct or breaches of chief accounting officer on developments in financial reporting and applicable laws or regulations that Financial resilience: including accounting policy, including IFRS 16, the new lease accounting standard.
could damage BPs reputation, the risk associated with external adversely affect operational market conditions, supply and results and or shareholder value demand and prices achieved for and potentially affect BPs licence BPs products which could impact to operate.
The committee reviewed The committee reviewed the key key areas of BPs ethics and price assumptions used by the compliance programme, group for investment appraisal and including the integration of the the judgements underlying those 70 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance briefed in detail on various items during the course of the year.
Areas of Accounting judgements and estimates significant judgement considered by the committee during the year and During 2016, the committee was briefed on a quarterly basis on the how these were addressed included: groups key accounting judgements and estimates and was also Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit committee review and conclusions Oil and natural gas accounting BP uses judgement and estimations when accounting The committee reviewed judgemental aspects of oil and gas accounting such as for oil and gas exploration, appraisal and development intangible asset balances relating to exploration and appraisal activities and exploration expenditure and in determining the groups estimated oil write-offs as part of the companys quarterly due-diligence process.
The committee was and gas reserves.
also briefed on the year-end reserves process including governance and control activities.
Recoverability of asset carrying values Determination as to whether and how much an asset The committee reviewed the discount rates for impairment testing as part of its annual is impaired involves management judgement and process and examined the assumptions for future oil and gas prices and refining margins.
estimates on uncertain matters such as future pricing The committee was briefed by management on any changes made to key assumptions or discount rates.
Judgements are also required in during the year.
The majority of the Upstream segments tangible assets were tested for assessing the recoverability of overdue receivables and impairment in 2016 and the group recorded a net impairment reversal of $1.9 billion for deciding whether a provision is required.
The groups long-term price assumptions for Brent oil, Henry Hub gas and UK National Balancing Point gas were all reduced in 2016 and the discount rate used for impairment testing was also reduced.
The committee monitored the position on any material overdue receivables and any associated provisions.
Accounting for interests in other entities BP exercises judgement when assessing the level of The committee reviewed the judgement on whether the group has significant control it has as a result of its interests in other entities influence over Rosneft.
The committee received reports from management and the and when determining the fair value of assets acquired external auditor which assessed the extent of significant influence, including BPs and liabilities assumed.
participation in decision making through the election of two BP directors to the Rosneft board and ongoing work on significant transactions and projects.
The committee was briefed on the accounting for transactions during the year including the dissolution of the joint operation with Rosneft and the disposal of BPs Norwegian upstream business in exchange for an interest in Aker BP.
Derivative financial instruments BP uses judgement when estimating the fair value of some The committee received a briefing on the groups trading risks including the derivative instruments in cases where there is an absence valuation of derivative instruments using models where observable market pricing of liquid market pricing information for example, relating to is not available.
The committee also visited the BP trading floor in London and integrated supply and trading IST activities.
received detailed presentations on the prevention of erroneous or fraudulent trades, carbon trading and BPs oil trading activities.
Provisions and contingencies BPs most significant provisions relate to Provisioning for, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities relating to the Gulf of decommissioning, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Mexico oil spill was discussed with the committee each quarter as part of the review environmental remediation, litigation and tax.
of the Stock Exchange Announcement.
The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning The committee discussed the provisions established in the second quarter as a of oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines result of the judgement that a reliable estimate could be made for all remaining at the end of their economic lives.
Most of these material liabilities arising from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Revisions to existing decommissioning events are in the long term and the provisions were also reviewed by the committee.
requirements that will have to be met when a removal The committee received briefings on the groups decommissioning, environmental event occurs are uncertain.
Judgement is applied by remediation and litigation provisioning, including key assumptions used, the BP in relation to settlement dates, technology and legal governance framework applied covering accountabilities and controls, discount requirements, among other factors.
rates and the movement in provisions over time.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement The committee examined the assumptions used by management as part benefits involves judgement about uncertain events, of its annual reporting process.
including discount rates, inflation and life expectancy.
Taxation Computation of the groups tax expense and liability, The committee reviewed the judgements exercised on tax provisioning as part of its the provisioning for potential tax liabilities and the level annual review of key provisions and was briefed on any material changes to deferred of deferred tax asset recognition are underpinned by tax asset recognition.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 71 Auditor appointment and independence External audit The committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor Audit risk each year before making a recommendation to the board.
The The external auditor set out its audit strategy, identifying key risks to be committee assesses the independence of the external auditor on an monitored during the year.
These included: ongoing basis and the external auditor is required to rotate the lead audit Determining the liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosures arising partner every five years and other senior audit staff every seven years.
from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The current lead partner has been in place since the start of 2013.
No partners or senior staff associated with the BP audit may transfer to the Estimating oil and gas reserves and resources which has significant group.
impact on the financial statements, particularly impairment testing and the calculation of depreciation, depletion and amortization.
Non-audit services The audit committee is responsible for BPs policy on non-audit Monitoring for unauthorized trading activity within the trading function services and the approval of non-audit services.
Audit objectivity and and its potential impact on the groups results.
independence is safeguarded through the limitation of non-audit The potential of the macroeconomic environment to materially impact services to tax and audit-related work which falls within defined the carrying value of the groups upstream non-current assets.
BPs policy on non-audit services states that the auditors The committee received updates during the year on the audit process, may not perform non-audit services that are prohibited by the SEC, including how the auditor had challenged the groups assumptions on Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, UK Auditing these issues.
Practices Board APB and the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Audit fees The audit committee approves the terms of all audit services as well as The audit committee reviews the fee structure, resourcing and terms of permitted audit-related and non-audit services in advance.
The external engagement for the external auditor annually.
Fees paid to the external auditor is only considered for permitted non-audit services when its auditor for the year were $47 million 2015 $51 million, of which 4% expertise and experience of the company is important.
was for non-audit assurance work see Financial statements Note 35.
For all other services which fall under the permitted services The audit committee is satisfied that this level of fee is appropriate in categories, approval above a certain financial amount must be sought respect of the audit services provided and that an effective audit can on a case-by-case basis.
Any proposed service not included in the be conducted for this fee.
Non-audit or non-audit related assurance permitted services categories must be approved in advance either fees were $2 million 2015 $3 million.
The $1-million reduction in by the audit committee chairman or the audit committee before non-audit fees relates primarily to a reduction in the amount of fees engagement commences.
The audit committee, chief financial officer for other assurance services and services relating to corporate finance and group controller monitor overall compliance with BPs policy on transactions.
Non-audit or non-audit related services consisted of tax audit-related and non-audit services, including whether the necessary compliance services and other assurance services.
The categories of permitted and Audit effectiveness pre-approved services are outlined in Principal accountants fees and The effectiveness of the audit process was evaluated through separate services on page 268. surveys for the committee members and those BP personnel impacted In response to the revised regulatory guidelines of the FRC, the by the audit, including chief financial officers, controllers, finance committee reviewed and updated its policies with effect from 1 January managers and individuals responsible for accounting policy and internal 2017.
Changes included: controls over financial reporting.
The surveys used a set of criteria to Adoption of the FRCs prohibited non-audit services list.
measure the auditors performance against the quality commitment set out in their annual audit plan, including: Prohibition of all non-audit tax services by the audit firm from 2017 onwards.
Robustness of the audit process.
Reduction of the pre-approval requirements for non-audit services in Independence and objectivity.
line with FRC guidance on how non-trivial engagements with the Quality of delivery.
audit firm should be pre-approved by the audit committee.
Quality of people and service.
Overall the 2016 evaluation concluded that the external auditor performance had either improved or remained largely constant in key areas compared to the previous year.
Areas with high scores included quality of delivery of the audit and technical knowledge and expertise.
A key area of focus from 2015 regarded liaison between BPs own audit function and the external auditors.
Actions taken over the year resulted in an improvement in scoring for the 2016 survey.
Results of the annual assessment exercise were discussed with the external auditor who considered these themes for the 2016 audit service approach.
The committee held private meetings with the external auditor during the year and the committee chair met separately with the external auditor and group head of audit before each meeting.
72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Evaluation Audit tendering Prior to the RFP being formally launched, briefing meetings were held The audit committee announced its intention to launch a competitive with each firm covering key BP segments, functions and geographies: audit tender process in BPs 2013 annual report.
The tender process in addition the audit committee held introductory meetings with the lead took place in 2016, with a view to appointing a new external auditor for and senior partners from each firm.
In preparation for the tender, BP sought assurance that each firm The new audit appointment will be with effect from 2018 to facilitate an would be capable of being independent in the time frame required orderly and thorough handover from the existing auditor and to ensure by applicable law or regulation before being appointed auditor.
The that the new auditor meets all relevant independence criteria before the due-diligence activities conducted as part of the tender included a commencement of the appointment.
Governance The proposals from the three firms were evaluated by the audit The audit committee was responsible for the operation of the audit committee against the following criteria, as well as the combined tender process, for making a report on the evaluation of the proposals performance as a whole: received during the tender process to BPs board and for recommending Audit quality.
two firms of auditors to the board together with the audit committees preference between those two firms and its reasons for that preference.
The governance model established by the audit committee to manage People, behaviours and cultural fit.
and support the tender constituted three key groups: Planning and project management, including transition.
Executive advisory panel Commercial and contractual structure.
Chief financial officers of BPs At the request of the audit committee chair, the commercial and business segments and heads contractual structure elements were assessed separately from the Investigate aspects of capability.
of its financial functions and other aspects of the firms proposals.
Evaluation of the proposals was Present a findings report to the group head of audit.
conducted on a fee blind basis.
Following completion of the evaluation, the audit committee recommended two firms to the board for approval, with a stated Governance board preference for Deloitte.
The audit committee believe that Deloitte has a strong team with the skills and experience to provide rigour and Govern the day-to-day running of Chaired by the group controller, the tender process.
with representatives from internal functions including Oversee the execution of the After considering the audit committees recommendation, the tender.
indirect procurement, legal, board selected Deloitte as BPs auditor for the financial year ending group control and financial Ensure the goals set for the 31 December 2018 subject to the approval of shareholders at the 2018 reporting.
tender by the audit committee annual general meeting.
BP has complied throughout 2016 with the Statutory Audit Services Gather information about the Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority.
proposals and communicate to the committee.
Committee evaluation The audit committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance Tender project team and effectiveness.
2016 evaluation Liaison with the bidding firms.
Representatives from the For 2016 an internal questionnaire was used to evaluate the work of the finance and procurement Logistical support to the tender.
The review concluded that the committee had performed functions.
Support for executive advisory effectively.
Priorities for 2017 include a review of and visit to BPs global panel and governance board.
business service centres, focus on streamlining committee materials and further scrutiny on risk management when undertaking business or functional reviews.
In delegating the day-to-day running of the tender process to the governance board, the audit committee asked that the tender be designed to implement a robust process to enable the selection of an auditor that would be the best fit for the role of external auditor based on the evaluation criteria agreed by the audit committee and provide the appropriate level of assurance to BPs shareholders.
Assessment criteria An assessment was undertaken to identify which firms would be reasonably likely to be capable of performing the audit and invited to participate in the tender: this assessment considered: Sector experience.
Extent and nature of existing non-audit services work with BP.
Based on this assessment, three firms were shortlisted to receive the formal tender request for proposal RFP.
EY, BPs existing auditor was not invited to participate due to the legal requirement for BP to rotate its auditor by 2020.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 73
