Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards of corporate governance which are so critical to creating value Governance Framework Board responsibilities Matters reserved for the Boards decision Collectively responsible for the long-term success Group strategy, long-term objectives, annual budgets of the Group.
Setting strategy and being accountable to shareholders Approval of the annual and interim results.
Material acquisitions, disposals and contracts.
Monitoring management activity and performance Approval of risk appetite.
Ensuring that a sound system of internal control and risk Providing constructive challenge to management.
For more detail on what the Board has considered Changes relating to the Groups capital structure.
during the year please go topage 56.
Certain Board responsibilities are delegated to formal Board Committees, which play an important governance role through the work they carry out.
Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Reviews the Groups financial Oversees the Risk Management Sets the remuneration policy reporting and recommends to Framework of the Group.
theBoard that the Report and Assists the Board in discharging Sets the individual remuneration Accounts should be approved.
itsresponsibilities for the integrity of the Executive Directors and Reviews internal financial controls.
ofthe Groups internal control and other staff designated asMaterial risk management systems.
Risk Takersunder the FCAs Assesses the independence and Remuneration Code.
effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
Nomination Committee Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Reviews the composition of Manages the day-to-day Oversees the implementation of theBoard and its Committees.
runningofthe Group, thegovernance and procedures  associated with the assessment, Ensures that appropriate andimplementation of strategy, control and disclosure of inside procedures are in place for the monitoring the operating and information in accordance with nomination, selection, training financial performance and the theMarket Abuse Regulation.
prioritisation and allocation Ensures that there is an effective of resources.
54 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Board composition and roles Our Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Their key responsibilities are: Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Simon Miller David Nicol Andrew Westenberger Provides leadership to the Board, setting Provides leadership to the Group.
Supports the Chief Executive in its agenda, style and tone to promote developing and implementing strategy.
Develops strategy proposals for constructivedebate and challenge recommendation to the Board and is Oversees the financial delivery and between the Executive and Nonaccountable for business performance.
Maintains a dialogue with the Chairman Leads the development of the finance Ensures good information flows from on all important matters and strategic functionto provide insightful financial theExecutive to the Board, and from issues facing the Group.
analysis that informs key theBoard to its key stakeholders.
Ensures that there is an effective Supports and advises the Chief framework of internal controls, Leads treasury activities.
Executive, particularly in the includingrisk management, Leads investor relations activities development of strategy.
andcommunication with investors Chairs the Nomination Committee and Ensures that the Group has the alongsidethe Chief Executive.
builds an effective and complementary capabilities and resources required Works with the Chief Executive to Board, regularly considering its toachieve its plans and that robust develop budgets and medium-term composition and balance, diversity management succession and plans to support the agreed strategy.
development plans are in place.
Ensures that the induction and Ensures that the Board is fully trainingprogrammes for Non-Executive informedof all key matters.
Directors are implemented and are effective.
Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Angela Knight Kath Cates, Ian Dewar, Paul Wilson Louise Meads and Caroline Taylor Acts as Secretary to the Board Acts as a point of contact for Constructively challenge management and Committees.
shareholders and other stakeholders to and decisions taken at Board level.
discuss matters of concern that are not Develops Board and Committee appropriate to address through normal Constructively challenge and help agendas and collates and channels of communication with the develop proposals on strategy.
Scrutinise the performance of Advises on corporate governance.
Acts as a sounding board for the management in meeting agreed Ensures compliance with Chairman and serves when required as goalsand objectives and monitor Board procedures.
an intermediary for the other Directors.
Meets with the Non-Executive Uphold high standards of integrity Organises the Annual General Meeting.
Directors without the Chairman andprobity, and support the Chairman present at leastannually and Makes herself available to all Directors andExecutive Directors in instilling leadstheBoard inthe ongoing for advice.
appropriate culture, values and  behaviours in the boardroom oftheChairmans performance.
Is available to meet with major Make sure they receive high-quality shareholders to develop a balanced information sufficiently in advance understanding of their issues and ofBoard meetings and challenge the concerns and report the outcome adequacy and quality of such information.
ofthese meetings to the Board.
Angela Knight will retire as a Director at the February 2017 AGM and Kath Cates will succeed her as Senior Independent Director.
The Board has reviewed Angela Knights independence in light of the length of her tenure and has concluded that she remains independent in every respect.
co. uk 55 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board activity during the year Strategy People Governance and risk Received presentations from Our Directors visited various Received reports from the Group different parts of the business offices around the country.
Head of Risk and Compliance.
Held the March Board meeting in Approved principal risks and risk Held strategy review discussions the Edinburgh office.
with the executive management Discussed results of the annual Deep dive into cyber risk.
Approved a refreshed policy for Received a presentation on the  from the firm and client money updated strategy in September Group Human Resources diversification.
and approved strategy for the Director on our people strategy.
Received formal reports from the Group.
CF10a the individual responsible For more information seeCorporate Approved updated budget and for oversight and the operational Responsibilityreport on page 46. medium-term plans in the context effectiveness of the systems and of the agreed strategy.
controls that are designed to Reviewed progress with achieve compliance with the FCAs implementation of strategy Performance monitoring Client Assets Sourcebook rules on through regular reports from the the governance and operational Reviewed reports on performance Chief Executive.
Discussed the results of the Board For more information on our Reviewed reports on the Groups performance evaluation.
strategy see page 28. financial position.
Received reports from the Chairs of Reviewed the year-end and the Board Risk, Audit, Nomination interim results.
For more information Shareholder engagement For more information see Principal see KPIs on page 30.
Risks and Uncertainties on page 33 Consulted with shareholders and and Board Committee reports on proxy voting bodies on the pages 60 to 72. revised remuneration policy.
Reviewed reports from brokers Other on shareholder feedback Approved the 2015 Annual following meetings with the Chief How we spent our time Report and Accounts and the Executive and Finance Director.
Received presentations from our Approved the 2017 budget broker on the market perception andmedium-term plan.
21% Governance Approved Q1 and Q3 interim and risk For more information management statements.
16% Performance seepage 58. monitoring Approved the Groups 6% Shareholder engagement taxstrategy.
5% Other 3% People Reviewed the Groups annual insurance programme renewal.
56 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Board attendance during the year Board meetings Attendance Executive Directors Independent Nov Dec Jan Mar Jun July Sept David Nicol No 100% Andrew Westenberger No 100% Stephen Ford No n a n a n a n a n a 100% Non-Executive Directors Simon Miller Chairman No 100% Angela Knight SID Yes 100% Kath Cates Yes 100% Ian Dewar Yes 100% Caroline Taylor Yes 100% Paul Wilson Yes 100% % based on the meetings entitled to attend.
Stephen Ford attended all meetings until he stepped down from the Board on7 January 2016.
Simon Miller satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his appointment as Chairman in March 2013.
In addition to the schedule of formal Board meetings, the Board meets informally throughout the year for dinners that give the Directors additional time together to discuss issues more broadly.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet periodically withoutExecutive Directors present, and the Senior Independent Director meets with the other Non-Executive Directors without theChairman present.
Information flow at Board and Committee meetings Chairman agrees The Board and its Committees use an electronic the agenda with board portal to gain quick and secure access to input from the meeting papers and other reference materials.
Chief Executive and The Directors indicated in their response to the Company Secretary Board performance evaluation that the quality ofinformation supplied to them continues to be of a high standard.
They recognise, however, Status of open that Board reporting continues to evolve and actions is a Agenda and papers improve.
The charton this pagedescribes standing agenda are distributed at theinformation flow before and after item at least five days Board meetings.
each meeting ahead of the meeting All Board Committees operate on a similar cycle, planning forward agendas for the year to ensure that all important issues are addressed as part ofthe annual cycle.
The chairman of each Committee agrees every agenda with the Company Secretary and relevant members ofsenior management.
Any Committee Company Board meetings held membercan call for reports on additional Secretary ensures at least six per year matters of interest.
agreed actions are completed brewin.
co. uk 57 Corporate Governance Statement continued Development and induction Relationship with shareholders All new Directors participate in a full induction programme Led by the Chairman, the Board recognises the important and thattakes into account any previous experience they may valuable role that shareholders play in safeguarding the Groups alreadyhave as directors of a public limited company.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director induction programme for new Directors typically includes meet regularly with the Groups major shareholders.
Following meetings withtheExecutive Directors and members of the these meetings, the Board discusses the feedback received.
seniormanagementteam covering the Board, the business, Wehold analyst and investor meetings and presentations finance, riskand compliance, operations and key change following the release of our annual and interim results, posting programmes aswellasbranch visits.
awebcast ofour presentations on our website for those unable toattend inperson.
The Groups broker provides the Board Brewin Dolphin undertakes training sessions for the entire directly with anonymised investor and analyst feedback Board.
All Directors are members of the Deloitte Academy, followingthe results ofmeetings and presentations.
whichprovides a year-round programme of briefings and updatesessions on relevant topics including accounting We hold our Annual General Meeting 'AGM' in London.
andauditing standards, corporate governance and regulation.
We have changed its venue this year following feedback from shareholders who attended previous AGMs.
It will be held in The whole Board training programme for the year included Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ briefings on the EU Market Abuse Regulation, FCA enforcement on 3 February 2017 at 11.30am.
You can see details of the actions, the FCAs Senior Managers Certification Regime, cyber meeting and the resolutions to be proposed in the Notice of risk, corporate governance updates and detailed briefings from AGM which is available to download from our website the business.
Directors conflicts of interest The AGM gives shareholders, our smaller shareholders in particular, an opportunity to meet the Board and ask questions, The Board has a policy and effective procedures in place either formally at the meeting or informally afterwards.
formanaging and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potentialconflicts of interest.
This is a recurring agenda item at allBoard meetings, giving Directors the opportunity to raise any conflicts ofinterest they may have or to update the Board on anychanges to previously lodged interests.
A Director may berequired to leavea Board meeting while such matters are discussed.
The Company Secretary holds a register of interests, and a logofall potential conflicts raised is maintained and updated.
Whenever a Director takes on additional external responsibilities, the Chairman considers any potential conflicts that may arise andwhether or not the Director continues to have sufficient timeto fulfil his or her duties.
If a potential conflict exists, the Board isempowered to authorise potential conflicts and agree what measures, if any, are required to mitigate or manage them.
58 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Internal control and risk management UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance statement The Board recognises that its risk management strategy is essential for achieving good business governance that protects We have complied with all principals and provisions of the stakeholders and enhances shareholder value.
It also understands 2014Code 'the Code' throughout the financial year ended that it is responsible for ensuring that there is an effective system 30September 2016.
The Corporate Governance Statement for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that andthecross referenced reports within set out our approach the Group faces.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach toapplying the Code.
A new version of theCode was introduced to establishing a system of internal control and operates a inSeptember 2016, and the revised provisions will apply to the threelines of defence model to help ensure our framework Group for the 2016 17 financial year.
The Board will therefore formanaging internal controls and risks across the Group is report on its implementation of those new responsibilities in robust and effective.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of nextyears Annual Report.
thisframework periodically, receiving reports on internal control fromthe Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee, and debating key risks for the Group following more detailed work bythe Board Risk Committee.
The Board sets the Groups risk appetite statements and reviews operational risk scenarios, stresstesting and reverse stress testing as part of the internal capital adequacy assessment process.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board considers that the information itreceives enables it to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Controland Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Areas where internal controls can be improved are identified and appropriate actions agreed as part of our internal control systems.
Management and the Board with the support of theAudit Committee regularly monitor progress towards completionof these actions.
The Board considers that none ofthe identified areas for improvement constitutes a significant failing or weakness.
Read more about our principal risks and risk management process on pages 33to 37. brewin.
