Board of Directors Simon Miller David Nicol, CA, Chartered FCSI Andrew Westenberger, FCA Angela Knight, CBE Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Senior Independent Director N R D D A N Simon Miller was appointed David Nicol joined the Board as Andrew Westenberger joined Angela Knight was appointed Chairman in March 2013. a Non-Executive Director in the Board in January 2013. as a Non-Executive Director He joined the Board in 2005 March 2012 and was Hewas Group Finance Director inJuly 2007 and as Senior and became Deputy Chairman subsequently appointed Chief ofEvolution Group PLC from Independent Director in and Senior Independent Executive in March 2013.
He 2009 until August 2011 and February 2014.
He read law trained and qualifi ed in 1980 adirector of its principal inthe engineering industry for at Cambridge and was called asa chartered accountant with subsidiary, Williams fide Broe many years before becoming to the Bar.
He subsequently Ernst & Young and spent two Limited.
Andrew qualifi ed as councillor and chief whip on worked for Lazard Brothers years working for KPMG in achartered accountant with Sheffi eld City Council from and County NatWest.
He joined Morgan Coopers & Lybrand.
She entered also chairman of Blackrock Stanley in 1984, where he 2000 to 2008, he held various Parliament in 1992 as MP for North American Income worked for 26 years in a senior fi finance roles in London Erewash and was Economic Trust PLC, JPMorgan Global number of operations and and New York with Barclays Secretary to the Treasury Convertibles Income Fund fi finance roles.
He is a non-executive between 1995 and 1997. and a director of Scottish of Morgan Stanley International director of the Chartered Shewas Chief Executive of Friendly Assurance Society.
David Institute of Securities The Association of Private was a non-executive director and Investments.
Client Investment Managers ofEuroclearplc from 1998 to and Stockbrokers from 2010 and was on the board September 1997 to December ofthe Chartered Institute of 2006, and Chief Executive of Securities and Investments the British Bankers Association until September 2015.
He is from April 2007 to July 2012. onthe Council of the Institute She was Chief Executive of of Chartered Accountants of Energy UK until December Scotland and is a member of 2015 and is currently the chair the appointment committee of of the Offi ce of Tax the Hermes Property Unit Trust.
Angela isalso a non-executive director ofTullett Prebon PLC, Arbuthnot Latham & Co Limited and Taylor Wimpey PLC.
52 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Key to our committees Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Board Risk Committee A RK N Member of the Nomination Committee D Member of the Disclosure Committee R Member of the Remuneration Denotes Committee Chairman Committee Ian Dewar, FCA Paul Wilson Caroline Taylor Kath Cates Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A RK R RK R N A R N A RK Ian Dewar was appointed as Paul Wilson was appointed as Caroline Taylor was appointed Kath Cates was appointed as aNon-Executive Director in a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive Director in aNon-Executive Director on November 2013.
Paul has over May 2014 and has 18December 2014 and from KPMG in 2012 after a 25 years experience of the responsibility for the Corporate became Chair of the Board 32-year career, including 19 fi financial services industry.
Risk Committee on 1 years as a partner.
During that February 2014, he was an Caroline has over 25 years September 2015.
Kath has time, he performed a wide advisory partner at Bain & experience in the fi financial over 20 years experience in variety of roles, both within Company, responsible for their services sector with a strong international fi financial services, KPMG and as a non-executive fi financial services practice.
Paul background in investment latterly as chief operating trustee in the charity sector.
is the senior independent management and in-depth offi cer, wholesale banking for Anaccountant by training, his director ofXL Catlin UK and knowledge of all aspects of Standard Chartered Bank.
experience has been in audit, chair of the risk and reserving investment management Sheis currently a nonadvisory, client relationship and committee.
He is also CEO of operations, compliance and executive director and chair practice management roles.
the World Platinum Investment legal issues.
Caroline was a ofthe risk committee for RSA Hehas spent the last 27 years Council and is a group board director of Goldman Sachs Insurance Group plc and a working in the fi financial services independent director at Asset Management non-executive director of sector.
Ian is a non-executive Unigestion Holding SA, based International from 2005 to Threadneedle Investment director of Manchester Building in Geneva.
Paul is international 2012 and is currently a Services Limited.
Society and Arbuthnot Banking chairman of Action Against non-executive director of Group PLC.
Hunger, a global charity Ecclesiastical Insurance addressing the problems of Offi ce PLC.
acute malnutrition in children in 35 countries worldwide.
He holds an MBA from Harvard Business School.
