Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Audit Committee Role The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the: integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, considering any significant issues and judgements reflected in them, before their submission to the Board: consistency of the Groups accounting policies: effectiveness of, and makes recommendations to the Board on, the Groups accounting, risk and internal control systems: effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and Kieran Poynter Chairman of the Audit Committee performance, independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditors, making recommendations as to their reappointment or for a tender of audit services, and approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees.
Audit Committee current members Key activities in 2016 Kieran Poynter Chairman Regular work programme reviewing: Dr Marion Helmes the application of accounting standards, the Groups 2015 results, 2016 half-year results, the interim management statements and the Dr Pedro Malan external auditors reports where results are audited: Dr Gerry Murphy the Basis of Preparation and Accounting Judgements: Attendance at meetings in 2016 the internal processes that had been followed for the preparation of the Report and Accounts and confirming that the processes Member Attendance Eligible Name since to attend appropriately facilitated the preparation of an annual report that is 3 d fair, balanced and understandable: Ann Godbehere 20122016 3 3 3 c Dr Marion Helmes 2016 2 2 the review on the year-end audit from the Groups external auditors, 3 b Dr Pedro Malan 2016 3 3 including the key audit risks, the Groups control environment and 3 f Christine Morin-Postel 20142016 5 5 the final materiality assessment and confirming the independence of Dr Gerry Murphy 2015 5 5 the external Group auditors: 1,3 e Kieran Poynter 2012 5 5 the Groups liquidity position, current facilities and financing needs through 2016: Notes: 1.
Kieran Poynter has recent and relevant financial experience.
the steps taken to validate the Groups going concern assessment 2.
Number of meetings in 2016: The Committee held five meetings in 2016, all of which at half-year and year-end and agreeing the process steps taken to were scheduled.
determine the Groups viability statement at year-end: 3.
Membership: a all members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with Code Provision C. 3.1. : b Dr Pedro Malan joined the Committee on the 2017 Internal Audit Plan: 28 April 2016: c Dr Marion Helmes became a member of the Committee on 1 August 2016 following her appointment as a Non-Executive Director: d Ann Godbehere ceased to be periodic reports from the Groups regional Audit and CSR a member of the Committee on 1 October 2016: e Kieran Poynter became Chairman of Committees and Corporate Audit Committee: the Committee, replacing Christine Morin-Postel, with effect from 1 October 2016, having previously chaired the Committee from April 2013 to May 2015: and f Christine Morin-Postel the Groups Risk Register, including the categorisation of, and ceased to be a member of the Committee upon her retirement as a Non-Executive Director on mitigating factors in respect of, Group risks: 6 December 2016.
The Finance Director attends all meetings of the Committee but is not a member.
regular reports from the Group Head of Audit and Business Risk Other Directors may attend by invitation.
The Director, Legal & External Affairs, the Group on international and global process audits and the management Head of Audit, and the external auditors also attend meetings on a regular basis.
responses and action plans being put in place to address any 5.
The Committee meets alone with the external auditors and, separately, with the Group Head concerns raised: ofAudit, at the end of every meeting.
the annual assessment of goodwill impairment: For the Committees terms of reference see www.
com governance the annual report from the Head of Group Security on security risks and frauds and losses arising during the preceding year: quarterly and annual reports on compliance with the Groups Standards of Business Conduct and biannual reports on political contributions: and the Audit Committee effectiveness following the Board evaluation process.
42 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further specific matters considered by the Committee: foreign exchange and restricted cash: as the Group has operations in certain territories with severe currency restrictions, where foreign agreeing amendments to the Global Policy on Auditor Independence currency is not readily available, the Committee satisfied itself that to reflect legislative changes and recommending them for adoption the methodologies used to determine relevant exchange rates for by the Board with effect from 1 January 2017: accounting purposes remained appropriate for restricted cash, see recommending amendments to the Audit Committee Terms of note 19 in the Notes on the Accounts.
Reference following discussions on the allocation of agenda items previously considered by the CSR Committee and recommending External auditors them for adoption by the Board: KPMG LLP KPMG have been the Companys auditors since 27 March 2015.
The Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors recommending amendments to the Groups travel insurance policies is working well and is satisfied with their effectiveness.
for Directors: Auditor independence policy receiving an update on the information requirements of BEPS measures including Country by Country reporting: The Committee has an established policy to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors.
The key agreeing changes to audit scope and coverage for the full-year audit principle of the policy is that the Groups external auditors may be following the successful completion of the roll-out of TaO: and engaged to provide services only in cases where those services do not recommending that quarterly reporting ceases and that the first and impair their independence and objectivity.
The external auditors may third quarter interim management statements be replaced with brief not be engaged to provide services if the provision of such services Trading Updates.
would result in the external auditors: Risk topics considered by the Committee included: having a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: an update on key litigation involving the Group with a specific focus being placed in the position of auditing their own work: on the healthcare recoupment claims across Canada and the class acting as a manager or employee of any Group company: or action claim against the Groups subsidiary, Imperial Tobacco Canada ITCAN in Quebec Province: being placed in the position of advocate for any Group company.
an overview, following the successful completion of the five-year Subject to the above, the external auditors may provide certain TaO programme, of how the new system is being used to create non-audit services.
The Committee recognises that using the external opportunities for additional efficiencies, for example in HR Shared auditors to provide such services is often of benefit where they have Services, and how the integrity of the system will be managed on a detailed knowledge of our business, although such services must business-as-usual basis, helping the Group move towards its goal of be put to tender if expected spend exceeds specified limits, unless establishing a globally integrated enterprise: a waiver of this requirement is agreed by the Finance Director and notified to the Committee.
a review of emerging risks and the risks posed by the UKs recent decision to exit the EU: The Committee also reviews a work plan identifying the total fees for all audit-related services, tax services and other non-audit services that it proposed revisions to the Groups risk appetite framework as it relates is expected will be undertaken by the external auditors in the following to each of the Companys strategic objectives: year.
Tax services and other non-audit services in excess of the tender an update on the latest trends with regard to cyber-attacks and on thresholds referred to above must be itemised.
Updated work plans are the Groups priorities for ensuring continuing protection: also submitted to the Committee at the mid-year and year-end, so that it has full visibility of the Group spend on non-audit services.
the rationale and the proposed approach to Coordinated Assurance and the adoption of a Three Lines of Defence model within the A breakdown of audit, audit-related and non-audit fees paid to KPMG Group, to be implemented in phases in 2017: and firms and associates in 2016 is provided in note 3 c in the Notes on the Accounts and is summarised as follows: risks and proposed mitigations relating to the closure of factories in Malaysia and Germany.
Services provided by KPMG firms and associates 2016 Significant accounting judgements considered by the 2016 2015 Committee in relation to the 2016 accounts: m m the Groups significant corporate tax exposures: the Committee Audit services 9.2 8.7 was updated periodically on corporate tax matters and considered Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.2 reports from the Group Head of Tax on the current status of issues Total audit and audit-related services 9.4 8.9 in various markets.
These included significant tax disputes in Brazil, Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 South Africa, Bangladesh and the Netherlands.
The Committee Tax advisory services 0.2 0.6 agreed with managements position and extended disclosures in respect of them see note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts : Tax compliance 0.3 0.4 Other non-audit services 1.4 2.0 contingent liabilities, provisions and deposits in connection with ongoing litigation: the Committee reassessed the provision in respect Total non-audit services 2.0 3.1 of the Fox River clean-up costs and related legal expenses subsequent Note: to a funding agreement in relation to the sharing of the costs.
As a In 2016, non-audit fees paid to KPMG amounted to 21.3% of the audit and audit-related assurance result, the provision was increased see note 3 in the Notes on the fees paid to them 2015: 35%.
However, inherent uncertainties remain see note 30 in the Notes on the Accounts.
The Committee agreed that no provision On 1 January 2017, the Groups revised Global Policy on Auditor should be recognised at this point in time in respect of the Kalamazoo Independence took effect to ensure compliance with the EU Audit River claim.
The Committee also agreed that the quarterly deposits Directive and Regulation.
In particular, the Group Auditor will withdraw in relation to security for costs in relation to the Quebec Class Action, from tax, excise duty strategy government policy and illicit trade advice made by the Groups subsidiary Imperial Tobacco Canada, would be to mitigate any perceived threat to independence from this type of work.
treated as an asset to be recovered upon a successful appeal of the In addition, non-audit fees will be limited to 70% of the Companys original judgment see note 14 in the Notes on the Accounts : average audit fees over the previous three consecutive financial years.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Audit Committee continued Annual assessment External and internal auditors attend meetings of these committees and regularly have private audiences with members of the committees The Committee carries out an annual assessment of the Groups after meetings.
Additionally, central, regional and individual market external auditors, covering qualification, expertise and resources, management, along with internal audit, supports the Board in its role and independence, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
of ensuring a sound control environment.
This assessment is informed by an external audit satisfaction survey completed by members of senior management.
No material issues Risk management were identified during 2016.
The Committee is satisfied with the Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at qualification, expertise and resources of its external auditors and that Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess and the objectivity and independence of its external auditors is not in any monitor the principal risks both financial and non-financial faced by way impaired by the non-audit services which it provides.
the business at each level.
Information on prevailing trends, for example The Finance Director, Director, Legal & External Affairs, Group Head whether a risk is considered to be increasing or decreasing over time, of Internal Audit and Business Risk, Company Secretary and the is provided in relation to each risk and all identified risks are assessed Committee Chairman all meet with the external auditors throughout at three levels high medium low by reference to their impact and the year to discuss relevant issues as well as the progress of the audit.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage the Significant issues are included on the Committees agenda.
risks identified and their progress is also monitored.
The risk registers and mitigation plans are reviewed on a regular basis.
Regional and aboveRisk management and internal control market risk registers are reviewed regularly by the relevant regional Audit Overview and CSR Committee or the Corporate Audit Committee, as appropriate.
The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and risk is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
The Group the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage Risk Register is reviewed regularly by a committee of senior managers, risks that may impede the Companys objectives.
It cannot, and is not chaired by the Finance Director.
In addition, it is reviewed annually by designed to, eliminate them entirely.
The system therefore provides the Board and twice yearly by the Audit Committee.
The Board and a reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement the Audit Committee review changes in the status of identified risks, or loss.
A description of the principal risk factors that may affect the assessing the changes in impact and likelihood.
The Audit Committee Groups business is provided in our Strategic Report on pages 2630. also conducts deep dives into selected risks, meeting senior managers The main features of the risk management processes and system of responsible for managing and mitigating them, so that it can consider internal control operated within the Group are described below, and those risks in detail.
have been in place throughout the year under review and remain in In 2016, the Board noted that the Groups risk profile remained stable.
They do not cover the Groups associate undertakings.
Board oversight The Board also considered the Group Viability Statement see page 26 of the Strategic Report.
During the year, the Board considered the nature and extent of the principal risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its For more information on risk factors see the principal Group strategic objectives its risk appetite and for maintaining sound risk risk factors section inour Strategic Report on pages 2630. management and internal control systems.
It reviews its risk appetite to ensure that it is appropriate and consistent with internal policies.
Internal control With the support of the Audit Committee, the Board also carries Group companies and other business units are annually required to out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management complete a checklist, called Control Navigator, of the key controls that and internal control systems annually.
This review covers all material they are expected to have in place.
Its purpose is to enable them to selfcontrols including financial, operational and compliance controls and assess their internal control environment, assist them in identifying any risk management systems.
controls that may need strengthening and support them in implementing Audit and CSR Committee framework and monitoring action plans to address control weaknesses.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed annually to ensure that it remains relevant The Groups Audit and CSR Committee framework underpins the to the business and covers all applicable key controls.
In addition, at each Boards Audit Committee.
It provides a flexible channel for the year-end, Group companies and other business units are required to: structured flow of information through the Group, with committees covering locally listed Group entities or complex markets where review their system of internal control, confirm whether it remains considered appropriate in certain markets, and each of the Groups effective and report on any material weaknesses and the action being regions.
In the EEMEA Region, given the size of the Region and the taken to address them: and number of countries it includes, the regional Audit and CSR Committee review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business is supported by an area Audit and CSR Committee.
Local Audit and Conduct and identify any material instances of non-compliance or CSR Committees also operate in several markets in EEMEA.
This framework ensures that significant financial, social, environmental The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional Audit and reputational risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries and CSR Committees or to the Corporate Audit Committee and, are appropriately managed and that any failings or weaknesses are where appropriate, to the Audit Committee to ensure that appropriate identified so that remedial action may be taken.
remedial action has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
The Groups regional Audit and CSR Committees are all regularly Internal audit function chaired by an Executive Director and attended by one or more NonExecutive Directors.
The Corporate Audit Committee focuses on the The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance Groups risks and control environment that fall outside the regional to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk management and committees remit, for example head office central functions, global control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks on programmes and projects.
It comprises members of the Management Group companies, other business units, and in relation to key global Board, is chaired by a Regional Director and is also attended by one or processes and does so against an audit plan presented annually to the more ofthe Non-Executive Directors.
Audit Committee, which focuses on higher risk areas or processes in relation to the Groups business.
44 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial reporting controls Of the total number of business conduct incidents reported in 2016, set out above, 115 were brought to managements attention through The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in whistleblowing reports from employees, ex-employees, third parties relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which are orunknown individuals reporting anonymously 2015: 73. designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards and to provide Political contributions assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the content of the The Committee is responsible for reviewing donations made for Annual Report and in particular, to assess whether it is fair, balanced political purposes throughout the Group.
The total amount of political and understandable in accordance with regulatory requirements.
donations paid in 2016 was 20,208 2015: 25,804, as follows: The Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out the Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its internal British American Tobacco Japan Limited reported contributions reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial information totalling Japanese yen 2,980,000 20,208 for the full year 2016. to prepare the Groups quarterly interim management statements and This expenditure is reported as a political contribution although it half-yearly and year-end financial statements is signed off by the heads related specifically to the purchase of tickets to receptions or dinners of finance responsible for the Groups markets and business units.
hosted by Members of Parliament MPs.
Representatives from British The heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and all senior American Tobacco Japan Limited engaged with these MPs at the managers must also confirm annually that all information relevant to receptions on local tobacco tax issues.
the Group audit has been provided to the Directors and that reasonable No other political donations were reported.
steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in response to requests for information from the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee Annual review participated in an internal Annual Report drafting meeting and engaged The Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management separately with the Finance Director during the drafting process in 2016. and Internal Control and Related Business Reporting reflects The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls are assessed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the as part of the Control Navigator exercise described above and evaluated Code regarding the applicability of, and compliance with, the by internal audit in the context of the annual audit plan.
Codes provisions with regard to issues of risk and internal control management and related financial and business reporting.
Standards of Business Conduct The Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise to, Companys Standards of Business Conduct the Standards, which enable the Board and the Committee to monitor the issue of risk and underpin the Groups commitment to good corporate behaviour.
internal control management on a continuing basis throughout the The Standards require all staff to act with a high degree of business year and to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
The Board, with integrity, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and ensure that advice from the Committee, has completed its annual review of the standards are never compromised for the sake of results.
Every Group effectiveness of that system for 2016. company and all staff worldwide, including senior management and No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board is the Board, are expected to live up to the Standards.
Guidance on satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, processes them is provided across the Group, including through training and are in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and progress is awareness programmes.
All Group companies have adopted the monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk and internal Standards or local equivalents.
control management accords with the Guidance.
Information on compliance with the Standards is gathered at a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee CSR regional and global level and reported to the regional Audit and CSRCommittees and to the Committee.
The CSR Committee held one scheduled meeting in 2016 before its activities were divided between the Board, the Audit Committee The Standards, and information on the total number of incidents and management.
The meeting was attended by all CSR Committee reported under them in 2016 including established breaches, members, namely Karen fide Segundo Chairman, Sue Farr, Savio isavailable at www.
Kwan, Dr Pedro Malan and Dr Richard Tubb.
The meeting covered In the year to 31 December 2016, 174 instances of suspected thefollowing matters: improper conduct contrary to the Standards were reported to the annual reviews for Corporate Social Investment CSI, Youth Smoking Committee 2015: 94.
Prevention and the International Marketing Principles: Of the instances reported, 77 were established as breaches and annual performance and 2016 targets for Environment, Health appropriate action taken 2015: 29.
In 65 cases, an investigation and Safety: found no wrongdoing 2015: 43.
In 32 cases, the investigation continued at the year-end 2015: 22, including the investigation Standards incidents with potential reputational impact and intocertain allegations regarding historic misconduct in Africa.
stakeholder allegations of a reputational nature: Whistleblowing an update on the work of the Groups human rights and supply chain due diligence and the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act: The Standards also set out the Groups whistleblowing policy, enabling staff, in confidence, to raise concerns without fear of reprisal.
approving a new Supplier Code of Conduct with effect from 1 March 2016 to ensure that BATs suppliers understand the minimum The policy is supplemented by local procedures throughout the standards expected from them: and Group and at the Groups London headquarters, providing staff with further guidance and enabling them to report matters in a language an update on Sudans current political, economic and social position.
with which they are comfortable.
The Committee receives quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents, often discussing them in detail.
While it remains satisfied that the Groups policy and procedures enable proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised and ensure that appropriate follow-up action is taken, the existing procedures will be reviewed by the Group Head of Business Control and Compliance during 2017.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 45
