Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Nominations Committee Role The Nominations Committee is responsible for: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and Management Board to ensure both have an appropriate balance ofskills, expertise, knowledge and for the Board independence: reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors and members of the Management Board: ensuring that the procedure for appointing Directors is rigorous, transparent, objective, merit-based and has regard for diversity: making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates Richard Burrows forappointments to the Board and Management Board: and Chairman of the Nominations Committee assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
Key activities in 2016 reviewing: Nominations Committee current members Executive Directors 2016 performance assessment: Richard Burrows Chairman Dr Pedro Malan Ann Godbehere Dr Gerry Murphy Directors annual appointment and re-election at the AGM: Sue Farr Dimitri Panayotopoulos the Nominations Committee effectiveness following the Board Dr Marion Helmes Kieran Poynter evaluation process: Savio Kwan an update on the proposal to appoint a sub-Committee of the Board, comprising three Non-Executive Directors, to provide Board Attendance at meetings in 2016 visibility and input to the investigation of certain allegations regarding historic misconduct in Africa as necessary, between the scheduled Member Attendance Eligible Name since to attend Board meetings: Richard Burrows 2009 5 5 Non-Executive Director appointments, interviewing candidates and Sue Farr 2015 5 5 recommending appointments to the Board: Ann Godbehere 2011 5 5 the Group Talent Strategy and talent development priorities for 2016: 2 c Dr Marion Helmes 2016 1 1 succession planning for the Executive Directors and for the Savio Kwan 2014 5 5 Management Board: Dr Pedro Malan 2015 5 5 2 d Christine Morin-Postel 20072016 5 5 the progress of bespoke development plans for high potential Dr Gerry Murphy 2009 5 5 candidates for Executive Director and Management Board roles 1 b Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 3 5 covering the key experience required for further progression, Kieran Poynter 2010 5 5 mentoring and education opportunities : 2 b Karen fide Segundo 20072016 2 2 the progress of diversity initiatives: 1 c, 2 b Dr Richard Tubb 20132016 1 2 membership of the Companys primary Board Committees following Notes: the proposed removal of the CSR Committee with effect from 1.
Number of meetings in 2016: a the Committee held five meetings, three of which were 28 April 2016: convened at short notice: b Dimitri Panayotopoulos missed the April and July ad hoc meetings, arranged at short notice, due to injury and illness: and c Dr Richard Tubb updates on the status of the search for new Non-Executive Directors missedthe April ad hoc meeting, arranged at short notice, due to family illness.
and recommending the appointment of Dr Marion Helmes: 2.
Membership: a all members of the Committee are independent in accordance with Code Provision B.
2.1. : b Karen fide Segundo and Dr Richard Tubb ceased to be members of the Board Committee appointments including recommending to the Committee upon their retirement as Non-Executive Directors at the AGM on 27 April 2016: Board the appointment of Kieran Poynter as Chairman of the Audit c Dr Marion Helmes became a member of the Committee on 1 August 2016 following Committee and Senior Independent Director SID, with effect from her appointment as a Non-Executive Director: and d Christine Morin-Postel ceased to 26 October 2016, to replace Christine Morin-Postel, who retired from be a member of the Committee upon her retirement as a Non-Executive Director on 6 December 2016. the Board on 6 December 2016 having served over nine years on 3.
Other attendees: the Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director and Group Head the Board: of Talent & Organisation Effectiveness regularly attend meetings by invitation but are Management Board appointments, including recommending to the not members.
Board the appointment of Tadeu Marroco, Business Development For the Committees terms of reference see Director, to the role of Director, Western Europe and of Naresh www.
com governance Sethi, Director, Western Europe to the role of Director, Business Development, both with effect from 1 December 2016: and recommending to the Board the appointment of Paul McCrory as Company Secretary with effect from 1 May 2017, to replace Nicola Snook, who will be retiring from the Company on 14 July 2017.
46 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Terms of appointment to the Board Details of the Directors terms of appointment to the Board are contained in the Remuneration Policy which is set out in full on www.
The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment for one year.
Their expected time commitment is 2530 days per year.
The Board considers the need for it to refresh its membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve for up to six years.
They may be invited to serve for longer, but additional service beyond six years is subject to rigorous review and service beyond nine years is unlikely.
The Committee is responsible for identifying candidates for positions on the Board.
This process includes an evaluation of the skills and experience to be looked for in candidates to ensure continuing Board balance and relevant experience.
The selection process involves interviews with several candidates, using the services of specialist external search firms to identify and shortlist appropriate candidates.
A balanced list including both genders is a requirement of any shortlist.
This process was followed for the recruitment of Dr Marion Helmes, who was shortlisted by Egon Zehnder and interviewed by the Chairman, Executive Directors and members of the Committee, whichthen recommended her appointment to the Board.
Annual General Meeting 2017 Dr Gerry Murphy has indicated that he will be retiring from the Board at the end of this years AGM on 26 April 2017, having served eight years on the Board.
The Company will be submitting all other eligible Directors for re-election and, in the case of Dr Marion Helmes, election for the first time.
The Chairmans letter accompanying the AGM Notice confirms thatall Directors being proposed for re-election are effective and thatthey continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as Non-Executive Directors.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 47
