Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Leadership and effectiveness Governance framework The Board The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders of the Company for its performance and for the Groups strategic direction, its values and its governance.
It provides the leadership necessary for the Group to meet its performance objectives within a robust framework of internal controls.
Board responsibilities: Board programme Group strategy.
The Board has a comprehensive annual programme of meetings to monitor and review the Groups strategy across all the elements of Significant corporate activities.
Risk management and the Groups business model.
These were refreshed in 2016 to include internal control.
deep dives on key strategy deliverables at each Board meeting.
The key activities of the Board in 2016, grouped under the Groups Periodic financial reporting.
four strategy pillars of Growth, Productivity, Sustainability and Dividend policy.
Winning Organisation, are detailed on pages 36-37.
The Boards strategic priorities for 2016 are identified within the key performance Board Committees indicators set out in our Strategic Report on page 10.
The Board has three principal Board Committees to which it has The Board devotes considerable attention to Group Corporate delegated certain responsibilities.
The roles, memberships and Governance, including internal control and compliance issues.
activities of these Committees are described in their individual reports It receives verbal updates from the Chairmen of all Committees in this section.
Each Committee has its own terms of reference, following each Committee meeting.
Copies of the minutes of all available at www.
com governance, which are reviewed and Committees are circulated to all members of the Board.
updated regularly, most recently with effect from September 2016.
To achieve improved alignment with the Groups existing corporate Audit Nominations Remuneration governance framework at a regional level and to further enhance Committee Committee Committee reporting and reduce duplication, a review of the Companys Board Committees in April 2016 resulted in the removal of the Corporate page 42 page 46 page 56 and Social Responsibility Committee with effect from 28 April 2016.
The matters reserved for the Committee have been absorbed by the Board, the Audit Committee or management as appropriate.
Management Board Leadership roles and responsibilities The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, Leadership isresponsible for overseeing the implementation of the Chairman Chief Executive Groups strategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating Leadership of the Board.
Overall responsibility for the framework for the day-to-day operation of the Groups Groupperformance.
Its other members comprise the Finance Leadership of the Group.
Director and 11senior Group executives whose names and Enables planning and execution Interfaces with shareholders.
roles are described onthe previous page.
Ensures effective shareholder Stewardship of Group assets.
Oversight Non-Executive Directors NEDs Senior Independent Director SID Oversee Group strategy.
Leads review of Chairmans performance.
Presides at Board in Chairmans Monitor Group performance.
Bring an external perspective and Intermediary for other Directors.
effective challenge to the Board.
Available to meet with major shareholders.
Management Board Development of Group strategy for Ensuring Group, regional and Tobacco Products and Next functional strategies and resources are Generation Products for approval by effective and aligned.
Monitoring Group operating Overseeing the management and performance.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 35
