Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Board effectiveness Balance of Non-Executive Directors Balance and diversity Information and professional and Executive Directors Our Non-Executive Directors come from development broad industry and professional backgrounds, Board induction with varied experience and expertise On joining the Board, all Directors receive aligned to the needs of our business.
Non-Executive Directors Short biographies of the Directors are set out also receive a full programme of briefings in this section on pages 3233.
In 2016, 27% on all areas of the Companys business from of our Board was female.
the Executive Directors, members of the The Board appreciates the benefit of diversity Management Board, the Company Secretary in all its forms, within its own membership and other senior executives.
and at all levels of the Group.
Our Strategic Dr Marion Helmes received a comprehensive Report contains details of our diversity policy, induction in 2016, including briefings Chairman 1 Independent Nonincluding the proportion of women in our covering the Groups Strategy, its functions Executive Directors 8 Executive Directors 2 total workforce and in senior management, including Marketing and Next Generation on pages 1314.
Products, statutory reporting cycle, Group Treasury, IT strategy, and legal and regulatory Independence and Length of tenure of issues.
She, along with the rest of the Board, conflicts of interest  also had the opportunity to conduct a market Independence visit in Rome at the off-site Board meeting The Board considers all Non-Executive to review the Groups strategy and the key Directors to be independent, as they are free Western Europe businesses.
from any business or other relationships that Non-Executive Directors are encouraged could interfere materially with, or appear to to attend meetings of the Groups regional affect, their judgement.
Audit and Corporate and Social Responsibility Conflicts of interest Committees to gain a better understanding of issues in the Groups regions.
The Board has formal procedures for managing conflicts of interest.
Directors are The Chairman meets with each Non-Executive required to give advance notice of any conflict Director individually, in the latter part of each issues to the Company Secretary.
These are 03 years 5 7 years 2 year, to discuss their individual training and considered either at the next Board meeting 46 years 2 development plans.
or, if the timing requires it, at a meeting of the Boards Conflicts Committee.
Each year, the Board also considers afresh all previously Gender split of Directors authorised situational conflicts.
Directors are excluded from the quorum and vote in respect of any matters in which they have an interest.
No material conflicts of interest arose during 2016.
Male 8 Female 3 Training and development: The Market Abuse Regulation A comprehensive training programme was undertaken to ensure that the Directors and key personnel understood the significant changes to the Companys procedures and policies as Nationality of Directors well as their own individual obligations relating to both share dealing and the management of inside information as a result of the implementation of the provisions of the Market Abuse Regulation MAR in July 2016.
The Board adopted a simplified and revised internal Code for Share Dealing and amended the Groups Standards of Business Conduct to reflect the new MAR obligations.
It also approved new and expanded terms of reference for its Disclosure Panel to reflect these changes.
Brazilian 2 German 1 British 4 Greek 1 Canadian 1 Irish 2 38 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder engagement Board evaluation Collective Board effectiveness The Chairman and the Executive Directors Evaluation process Collective decision-making are committed to open and transparent Under the UK Corporate Governance Code The Chairman seeks a consensus at Board dialogue with shareholders.
In early 2016, there is a requirement that a Board should meetings but, if necessary, decisions are taken both the Chairman and the then Chairman undertake a formal and rigorous annual by majority.
If any Director has concerns of the Remuneration Committee met several evaluation of its own performance and that on any issues that cannot be resolved, such shareholders, in particular to discuss the of its committees and individual directors.
concerns are noted in the Board minutes.
outcomes of the remuneration consultation Evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 No such concerns arose in 2016. and the proposed final amendments to the companies should be externally facilitated at When required, the Non-Executive Directors, Groups Remuneration Policy.
Independent Audit led by the Chairman, meet prior to Board Limited facilitated BATs evaluation of its The Senior Independent Director and other meetings and without the Executive effectiveness for 2016.
Non-Executive Directors are also available to Directors present.
The Executive and the meet with major shareholders on request.
The performance and effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors also meet annually, No such requests were received in 2016.
Board, its Committees, the Executive and led by the Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman without the Chairman present, to discuss the The AGM is an opportunity for further were evaluated.
Respondents were requested Chairmans performance.
shareholder engagement and for the to rank the Board against several outcomes.
Chairman to explain the Companys progress For disclosures required by paragraph They also had the opportunity to elaborate and, along with other members of the Board, 7.2.
6of the Disclosure Guidance and their replies by providing specific comments.
All Directors attend, Transparency Rulesand the Companies All Non-Executive Directors and Executive unless illness or pressing commitments Act2006 see the Other corporate disclosures Directors participated in the evaluation section on pages 7782. prevent them.
All Directors, except for Dr process.
This year, a small number of senior Richard Tubb and Dimitri Panayotopoulos, managers and external advisors who regularly attended the AGM in 2016.
Details of our attend Board Committee meetings, including 2017 AGM are set out in the Other corporate the Company Secretary and the Director, disclosures section.
Legal & External Affairs, were also invited to Annual investor relations programme complete the evaluation.
A full programme of engagement with Constructive feedback shareholders, potential investors and analysts, Anonymised reports were prepared by in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each Independent Audit Limited for the Board year by the Head of Investor Relations, often and each Board Committee on the results accompanied by one or more Executive of the evaluation.
In addition, the Chairman Directors.
In 2016, meetings were held with received reports on the performance of each institutional shareholders in 19 countries, of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
spanning five continents, engaging with A report on the Chairmans own performance the owners of the majority of its shares.
was prepared for the Senior Independent Regular investor presentations were also Director.
Individual feedback was given by the given and these together with the results Chairman to all Board members, and by the presentations are published on www.
Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
All results presentations are also available to shareholders by webcast.
The results of the evaluation show that the Board continues to function well and In addition, there is a microsite on each of its Committees continues to be www.
com for debt investors, with efficient and effective.
Relations between the comprehensive bondholder information on executives and the non-executives are good.
credit ratings, debt facilities, outstanding Key strengths of the Board include the wide bonds and maturity profiles.
range of skills and diverse backgrounds of Board reporting on shareholder views members, the excellence of the management In 2016, the Head of Investor Relations team and Chairman, and the collegiate updated the Board on key issues raised atmosphere.
Board members generally have by institutional shareholders as well as a a good understanding of the business and commentary on share price performance.
their roles and receive the information they The Chairman also regularly reports on any need.
They are also well supported by the meetings he has had with shareholders in Company Secretary.
between Board meetings and the Board The report noted that the Board has a discusses the key points investors may have strong desire to continue to improve Board raised and, in 2016, the Board received an effectiveness in all areas.
update on the outcome of the Chairmans meeting with the Investment Association over A summary of the key points arising from the its Board Confidence index.
evaluation, our progress against 2016 action points and proposed actions for 2017, is set out on pages 4041.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 39 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Board effectiveness continued Board evaluation 2016 Leadership Oversight Meetings The Board works well... the performance I think management do a very good job in Board meetings are managed very ofthe Board is linked to the performance drawing the Boards attention to the key well indeed, resulting in outstanding ofthe Companyand the Company is importance of regulatory compliance.
Findings Findings Findings The Board has a clear understanding of Oversight is well executed and the Board The annual Board programme continues to the Groups business and the environment continues to have a clear understanding of be comprehensive with all key issues being in which it operates and scored well on controls and risks.
The risk register is well covered.
Papers are of a high quality with very coverage of the right issues and avoiding defined and each separate risk is mitigated.
Due weight is given to regulatory compliance, Strategy discussions take place at every Board in particular the Boards oversight of the The Chairman sets a positive and constructive meeting and the Board challenges underlying investigation into certain allegations regarding tone at meetings and is effective in dealing assumptions and seeks clarity and consistency.
historic misconduct in Africa, including the with any unconstructive behaviour or sources creation of a Board sub-Committee to provide of tension.
Strategy is communicated clearly externally ongoing support between Board meetings.
and has been generally well received, for All Board members are encouraged to example, the positive reactions to merger and The Executive Directors are very highly participate in discussions and contribute acquisitions activity during the year.
regarded by the Board and excel in presenting their input.
The development of a workable remuneration The ability of the Chairman to identify strategy in conjunction with the Remuneration The culture of the Company is well consensus and move to a timely conclusion Committee was noted as an example of understood and this knowledge is utilised in was particularly identified as a strength.
the Board and its Committees working very providing the oversight to develop strategies well together and communicating with for change in areas such as NGP.
Action for 2017 investors and shareholders in developing a With effect from 1 January 2017, meetings remuneration proposal that received strong Action for 2017 of the Audit and Remuneration Committees support at the AGM.
A Board sub-Committee will continue to will be held concurrently with a view keep the Board fully updated in relation to to maximising the use of time and the Action for 2017 the outcomes of the Groups investigation effectiveness of each Committee and Following the revision of the Boards into certain allegations regarding historic the Board.
Committee structure, more time will be misconduct in Africa.
allocated to Group strategy discussions.
Progress against 2016 actions Following a review of compliance processes Continued opportunities for interaction with during 2016, the format, content and Committee memberships and the scheduling senior management via the attendance at frequency of reporting of incidents arising of Committee meetings were reviewed management meetings such as the Regional under the Group Standards of Business during 2016, with a view to maximising the Audit Committees will also be provided.
Conduct to the Audit Committee will effectiveness of each Committee, and of be reviewed.
the Board, within the overall time allocated To ensure that all Directors are fully aware for each meeting schedule.
This resulted of any new challenges facing BAT including in the cessation of the Corporate and Progress against 2016 actions those presented in the event of a successful Social Responsibility Committee and the completion of the proposed acquisition of The performance and published strategies re-distribution of its responsibilities among the Reynolds American, ensure that detailed of the Groups competitors are regularly Board, Audit Committee and management.
briefings and, where appropriate, market visits compared to the Groups strategic Several informal Non-Executive Director-only are arranged and that the challenges and imperatives, providing context for discussions were scheduled during 2016. issues are discussed.
discussion relating to the Groups strategy.
Views of shareholders and the media are also regularly considered.
Progress against 2016 actions The Board calendar was revised to provide Shareholder views are fed back to the Board additional time at each Board meeting in a formal report from the Head of Investor for reviewing one or more aspects of Relations twice a year.
All Directors also receive the Groups strategy in detail with senior briefing reports following significant events or management, covering progress, challenges whenever the Group is in the news.
40 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Support Composition Working together We have an outstanding secretariat giving Board members are high calibre with a The Board is a supportive and friendly place NEDs excellent and timely support in wide range of appropriate skills.
where people can express their views.
Findings Findings Findings The Board continues to receive excellent The Board continues to have a good mix Directors listen to and respect the views support from management and the of broad and diverse skills, nationalities, of others, contribute to a constructive Company Secretary.
These have been atmosphere in the Boardroom and work further enhanced with the appointment within a consensus position once it The Board evaluation process itself was of Dr Marion Helmes in August 2016, who is established.
described as a good experience which brings significant financial expertise and forces Board members to think through The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer operational experience skills to the Board.
a very wide range of issues.
The decision work very well together with complementary to include some members of senior personal styles and help set the tone at Action for 2017 management and some outside advisers in the top.
this years evaluation was also welcomed.
Committee succession was an area for discussion in 2016.
Following the Board Action for 2017 Action for 2017 Evaluation exercise, improvements to Ensure that opportunities to engage with succession planning for Committees have Assuming the proposed acquisition of senior management continue as these are been identified.
Reynolds American completes and the extremely useful in understanding strategy Groups ADR listing in the US is upgraded to a implementation and that Non-Executive Progress against 2016 actions Level III SEC listing, provide a detailed briefing Directors ability to evaluate candidates for and training session for the Board on their Executive succession is effective.
The Board Committee structure and responsibilities under the relevant legislative composition was refreshed during 2016.
Provide scheduled NED-only meetings and regulatory codes.
in the Board calendar rather than The appointment of Non-Executive Directors Ensure any new Directors joining the Board, the ad hoc arrangement as currently.
with diverse skills, nationalities and gender particularly any joining from the Reynolds Discussions between NEDs separately from continued to be a focus.
A new Non-Executive American Board on completion of the merger, Executive Directors have been valuable in Director, Dr Marion Helmes, was appointed to receive a full induction on the Groups improving the effectiveness of the Board as the Board with effect from 1 August 2016. businesses outside of the US.
Progress against 2016 actions Progress against 2016 actions The entire Board received detailed training on The Board received detailed updates from their duties and the duties of the Company senior management on key strategic under the Market Abuse Regulation, which matters throughout the year.
The Board also came into force on 3 July 2016.
A detailed undertook a market visit and met with and briefing on the Groups innovation initiatives discussed the challenges and opportunities was also well received.
faced by the leadership team in Western Europe during the Board meeting held in Rome.
The additional strategic deep dives during 2016 have provided opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to engage with senior management.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 41
