Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Management Board Jerome Abelman Jack Bowles Alan Davy Giovanni Giordano Director, Legal & External Affairs and General Counsel 53 Regional Director, Asia-Pacific 53 Director, Operations 53 Director, Group Human Resources 51 Nationality: US Nationality: French Nationality: British Nationality: Italian US Jerry was appointed Director, Legal & Jack became Regional Director for Alan was appointed to the Management Giovanni joined the Management External Affairs and General Counsel Asia-Pacific in January 2013.
Joining Board as Group Operations Director Board of British American Tobacco inMay 2015, having joined the the Group in 2004, he was Chairman inMarch 2013.
He joined the Group inJune 2011.
He is an international Management Board as Group of British American Tobacco France in1988 and has held various roles in human resources executive with wide Corporate & Regulatory Affairs in2005, before taking up the role of manufacturing, supply chain and experience from senior roles at Procter Director in January 2015.
He has been Managing Director of British American general management.
Alan previously & Gamble and Ferrero, where he was with the Group for 14 years and has Tobacco Malaysia in 2007.
He joined held the position of Group Head of Chief Corporate Officer.
held a number of roles in Legal.
the Management Board as Regional Supply Chain.
Jerry was Regional General Counsel, Director for Western Europe in Asia-Pacific from 2010 to 2014, before October 2009 before becoming becoming Assistant General Counsel Regional Director for the Americas Corporate & Commercial.
Jerry inOctober 2011. joined the Board of the Groups associate company, Reynolds American, in February 2016.
Andrew Gray Tadeu Marroco Dr David OReilly Ricardo Oberlander Director, Marketing 52 Regional Director, Western Europe 50 Group Scientific Director 50 Regional Director, Americas 53 Nationality: Brazilian British Nationality: Brazilian Nationality: British Nationality: Brazilian Andrew was appointed Marketing Tadeu was appointed Regional David was appointed Group Scientific Ricardo joined the Management Board Director in September 2014.
He joined Director, Western Europe in December Director in January 2012.
He has been as Regional Director for the Americas the Management Board as Regional 2016.
He joined the Management with British American Tobacco for over in January 2013.
He joined Souza Cruz Director for Africa and the Middle East Board as Director, Business 20 years and has held various positions in May 1989 and has held various roles in January 2008 before being Development in September 2014. in Group Research and Development.
including Marketing Director of our appointed Regional Director for Tadeu joined BritishAmerican Tobacco He has led the Groups R&D efforts to Malaysian business, Regional Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa in Brazil over20years ago.
He has held develop reduced toxicant products Marketing Manager for the Americas, EEMEA in January 2011.
Joining various senior finance positions, and has also been Head of General Manager in France and Global Souza Cruz as an intern in 1986, he including Regional Finance Controller, International Public Health & Scientific Consumer Director.
Ricardo joined the went on to hold a number of senior EEMEA, and Group Finance Controller.
Affairs, responsible for engagement Board of the Groups associate management positions in South with the scientific, medical and public company, Reynolds American, America and the Caribbean including health communities.
inDecember 2014 and was appointed President of Souza Cruz and also to the Chief Marketing Officer CMO inMalaysia.
Council Latin America Advisory Board in February 2016.
Johan Vandermeulen Kingsley Wheaton Naresh Sethi Regional Director, Eastern Europe, Managing Director, Director, Business Development 50 Middle East and Africa 49 Next Generation Products 44 Nationality: Australian Indian Nationality: Belgian Nationality: British Naresh was appointed Director, Johan joined the Management Board Kingsley was appointed Managing Business Development in December as Regional Director for Eastern Director, Next Generation Products in 2016.
He has over 20 years of Europe, Middle East and Africa in January 2015.
He joined the Group in experience in the tobacco industry, September 2014.
He has been with 1996 and has held a number of roles in holding various marketing roles in British American Tobacco for more Marketing.
He was Marketing Director India, Indonesia, West Africa and than 20 years and was previously in Nigeria and Russia, before becoming Australasia before moving to Japan.
General Manager in Russia, General General Manager in Russia.
He was Hewas Marketing Director in Japan Manager in Turkey and in the then the Global Brand Director and then the Groups General marketing function he was Global responsible for the Kent and Vogue Manager.
He became Group Head Brand Director for the Kent brand.
brands, before taking his place on the ofStrategy and Planning, was Management Board in January 2012 appointed Director, Group Business asDeputy Corporate and Regulatory Development in 2012 and was Affairs Director.
In June 2012 he was appointed Regional Director for appointed Director, Corporate and Western Europe in January 2013.
34 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
