70 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Role of the Audit Committee Financial statements issued by the Company need to be fair, balanced The Audit Committees main functions are: and understandable.
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems as a whole and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee on which the Company is reliant.
is aware that several sections of the Annual Accounts are not subject To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own to formal statutory audit, including the Strategic Report and Investment internal audit function.
The checking process for the financial information To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements in these sections is reviewed by the Audit Committee, and by the Auditor.
of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and the The Companys half-yearly report is approved by the Audit Committee Administrator.
prior to publication, and is also reviewed by the Auditor.
To meet the independent Auditor of the Company to review their proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report The Audit Committee assesses annually whether it is appropriate to and to assess the effectiveness of the audit process, the nature of the prepare the Companys financial statements on a going concern basis, non-audit work and the levels of fees paid in respect of both audit and and makes its recommendation to the Board.
The Boards conclusions non-audit work.
are set out in the Report of the Directors.
To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to negotiate their The Audit Committees remit includes consideration of a statement remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work.
by the Directors on the long-term viability of the Company.
That statement To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, can be found on page 47. objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
As explained below, the Audit Committee considers carefully the internal The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year.
It operates within control systems.
The Company relies heavily on third party suppliers.
The defined terms of reference, which were reviewed and updated during the Audit Committee continues to monitor the services and control levels of year to reflect latest guidance from the FRC.
The terms of reference are all of its suppliers.
During 2016, the Audit Committee again paid particular available on the Companys website.
attention to the developing threat of cyber-crime, and reports from the Companys suppliers were requested and reviewed.
No significant issues Composition of Audit Committee were identified.
The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board, being independent Directors.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial The Committee reviewed special dividends received to determine experience and two are Chartered Accountants.
their allocation to the revenue or capital account in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Significant Issues In planning its own work, and reviewing the audit plan of the Auditor, Given the nature of the Companys investments, substantial funds can be the Audit Committee takes account of the most significant issues and received from corporate actions at investee companies.
The implementation risks, both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Companys of the corporate actions can be complex and challenging.
reviews such corporate actions, and takes advice where necessary.
The valuation of the investment portfolio is a significant risk factor.
However, In last years Audit Committee report, we noted an issue in relation to 100% of the portfolio can be verified against daily market prices and the Companys holding in Westgrund, which was acquired by Adler, observable price movements.
where a substantial proportion of the shareholders consideration was withheld pending a review by the German Federal Ministry of Finance.
A further significant risk control issue is to ensure that the investment The Audit Committee is pleased to report that the full sum withheld was portfolio accounted for in the financial statements reflects physical repaid to the Company.
The Audit Committee conducted a full review of ownership of the relevant securities.
The Company uses the services the circumstances, with a view in particular to improving future levels of of an independent Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA to hold the communication on such issues.
The investment portfolio is reconciled regularly by the Administrator to the Custodians records, and that reconciliation The Company suffers withholding tax on many of its dividends received, is also reviewed by the Auditor.
The Company has also appointed a some of which is irrecoverable.
The Audit Committee aims to ensure that Depositary J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, whose responsibilities include any recoverable withholding tax is received in a timely manner.
However, oversight of the safekeeping of the Companys assets.
The Audit such recovery can be difficult in some jurisdictions, and the Company has Committee meets with the Depositary annually, principally in order to incurred professional service fees in this area.
In particular, in recent years, review the work of the Depositary during the year, but also to consider we have sought with the assistance of Ernst and Young LLP EY to recover the effectiveness of the internal controls at the Custodian.
During the year, some significant French withholding tax.
This led to the recovery, during there was a discussion in respect of the issue concerning the Companys 2015 2016 of 2,987,000 of withholding tax plus 634,000 of interest.
holding in Westgrund see below.
71 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC The Audit Committee requested that EY review the Companys withholding Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular tax recovery more generally.
Though there were no material issues arising needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk from the review, it was noted that there was potential to make claims of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only in respect of certain EU companies, and the Company subsequently provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement employed a consultant to examine the possibility of making further claims.
The Audit Committee also considered the reports and controls required As neither the Company nor the subsidiary has any employees, the relating to the fixed-term debt assumed by the Company during the year.
Company does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The Company delegates its main functions to third party providers, each Internal Controls of whom report on their policies and procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for ensuring that suitable internal controls systems to prevent and detect fraud and The Audit Committee believes that the Company does not require an error are designed and implemented by the third party service providers internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its dayto the Company and is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, of such controls.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and which provide control reports on their operations at least annually.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company in line with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal External Audit Process Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Auditor.
The September 2014 and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees published Auditor provides a planning report in advance of the annual audit, a report in April 2016.
This process has been in place for the year under review and on the annual audit, and a report on their review of the half-year financial up to the date of approval of this report, and accords with the guidance.
The Audit Committee has an opportunity to question and In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and challenge the Auditor in respect of each of these reports.
evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any failure of such controls are In addition, at least once a year, the Audit Committee has an opportunity identified in a Risk Matrix and a schedule of Key Risks, which are regularly to discuss any aspect of the Auditors work with the Auditor in the absence reviewed by the Board and which identify the likelihood and severity of the of the Investment Manager.
impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise the probability of such risks occurring.
The principal risks identified by the Board are set After each audit, the Audit Committee reviews the audit process and out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 to 11. considers its effectiveness.
The review of the 2015 audit concluded that the audit process had worked well, and that the significant issues had The following are the key components which the Company has in place been adequately addressed.
to provide effective internal control: Auditor Assessment and Independence The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specify The Audit Committee reviewed EYs independence policies and procedures levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on compliance with including quality assurance procedures.
It was considered that those these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board.
policies and procedures remained fit for purpose.
The Board has a procedure to ensure that the Company can continue to be approved as an investment company by complying with sections Fees Payable to the Auditor 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Total fees payable to the Auditor were 67,000 2015: 75,000.
The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys Of the total fees, the fees for audit services were 29,000 2015: 30,000. activities and review its performance.
The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other third party service providers, and adherence to them, are regularly reviewed.
The services and controls at the Investment Manager and at other third party suppliers are reviewed at least annually.
The Audit Committee receives and reviews assurance reports on the controls of the Custodian and Administrator undertaken by professional service providers.
The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the Company is recovering withholding tax on overseas dividends to the fullest extent possible.
The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews the Investment Managers operations.
The Investment Manager also employs a compliance consultant.
Compliance reports are submitted to the Committee at least annually.
72 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the CMA Order engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into British Empire has complied throughout the year ended 30 September account the recommendations of the FRC, and does not believe there 2016 with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
issued by the Competition and Markers Authority CMA Order.
All non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
The cost of non-audit services AS Robson provided by the Auditor for the financial year ended 30 September 2016 Audit Committee Chairman was 38,000 2015: 45,000.
This comprised: 9,000 in relation to tax 10 November 2016 compliance: 7,500 in relation to the half-year review: 16,000 for the review of withholding tax referred to above: 4,000 in relation to review reports and filings required in respect of the Debenture and fixed-term debt: and 1,500 in respect of iXBRL tagging.
These non-audit services are assurance related, and the Audit Committee firmly believes EY have been best placed to provide them on a cost effective basis to the benefit of shareholders.
The non-audit fees were high this year due to the French withholding tax exercise.
The fees for non-audit services are considered not material in the context of the accounts as a whole.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that EY remains independent.
The Audit Committee confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by the Companys Auditor satisfies, and does not compromise, the tests of the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Given the assurance nature of the fees, and the specific work required in respect of withholding tax and taxation services, the cost of these services are considered by the Audit Committee to be proportionate in relation to the fees for audit services.
The Audit Committee recognises that certain non-audit services, and in particular certain tax services, currently provided by the Auditor, will, under new regulations, not be permitted to be performed by the newly appointed Auditor.
Audit Tender The Companys external Auditor, EY, has been the Companys Auditor since 1993.
During 2013, the Audit Committee conducted a full review of the services provided by the Auditor, and the related fees, and concluded that there was no need, at that stage, to conduct a competitive tender.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that those conclusions remain valid.
However, the Audit Committee is mindful of the reforms relating to auditor tenure, and in particular the new regulations in respect of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee therefore decided to conduct a tender for audit services.
The Audit Committee met with three audit firms in October 2016, that had been invited to tender for the external audit work.
EY were not invited to tender due to the length of their service as Auditor.
The Audit Committee considered each of the tender submissions in detail and received presentations in October 2016.
As a result of this process, the Audit Committee found that the experience demonstrated within the investment trust sector as well as the strength of the overall audit team at KPMG LLP would be the most suitable to the Companys requirements.
It was therefore agreed to recommend to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed as Auditor.
A resolution to that effect is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee thanks EY for their audit work, and assistance to the Committee, over many years.
