12 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 technology to help improve car performance with instant access Were helping low income groups to get online with two products: to real-time data.
Our collaboration is already helping Williams to BT Basic Broadband and our BT Business Digital Inclusion for work better connecting race tracks around the world with their Social Housing solution.
The launch of the BT and Barclays Wi-Fi headquarters in Oxfordshire.
in Our Community initiative is providing access, guidance and coaching to those who need it most.
Using partnerships to raise awareness Keeping people safe online remains a priority.
Internet Matters, the Partnerships continue to be an important part of the way we build website we co-founded in 2014 to help parents keep their children our reputation and show our support for good causes.
For example safe online, has now had over 2.5m visitors.
The Right Click, our we: partnership with UNICEF UK, has seen BT volunteers deliver 280 launched our BT Sport Infinity Lab competition to find start-ups workshops in schools, teaching children and their parents how to and entrepreneurs with innovative digital media and production use the internet safely.
solutions: This year weve developed a methodology to measure the social agreed multi-year sponsorship of the Institution of Engineering impact of our products and services.
This has been successfully and Technologys new Diamond Jubilee Scholarship Programme: piloted on three propositions BT Basic, Digital Inclusion for have continued to develop our Connecting Africa programme see Social Housing and Mobile Health Worker and it has been used below : and on a corporate contract through our work with the Colombian continued to support good causes including Children in Need in government page 32.
Having a way to measure the wider November 2015 and Sport Relief in March 2016 benefits our products and services can bring shows how valuable see page 9.
ICT, and what we do, has become in peoples day-to-day lives.
We can also use the methodology to influence how we develop our STAKEHOLDERS AND RELATIONSHIPS future products.
As well as our people, our main stakeholders are: our customers: Outside the UK, our Connecting Africa programme has now communities: BT Group plcs shareholders: lenders: our pension successfully connected all 30 of the planned SOS Childrens schemes: suppliers: government: and regulatory authorities.
Villages, in 13 countries, using BTs satellite technology.
We Our markets and customers have used this in seven villages to provide a new Healthcare We sell fixed-voice, broadband, mobile and TV products and Management System, improving healthcare services for over services to individuals and households in the UK.
medium-sized enterprises, as well as larger businesses in the UK, We also continue to embed social and environmental criteria we offer fixed-voice, broadband, mobility, networking and IT into our business processes, helping us to make better decisions, services.
In both the UK and globally we offer managed networked stimulate growth and spark innovation.
In January we launched a IT services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses and BT Infinity Lab competition, in partnership with the Department of public sector organisations.
Transport, to stimulate social and environmental innovation in the Some of our customers are also our competitors.
This is because SME sector.
we sell wholesale products and services to other communications Supporting charities and communities providers in the UK and overseas.
This year we added 94m towards our 1bn target.
60m of this You can read about our markets, customers and the services we was raised via MyDonate, our commission-free online fundraising provide them in our lines of business section from page 36. and donations platform.
This takes our overall fundraising total to 327m.
a Communities and society BTs purpose is embedded at the heart of our business, and has As well as supporting a number of smaller charities and individual helped us to deliver economic growth and wider societal and fundraisers, we again used MyDonate and our communications environmental benefits.
During the year we invested 35m to technology with help from our volunteers to support various accelerate a number of environmental see page 16 and societal large telethons page 9.
These included Comic Relief, Children in priorities that help to bring our purpose to life.
This investment is Need, and the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal after the a mixture of cash, time volunteered, and in-kind contributions.
is equivalent to 1.1% of our previous years adjusted profit before In the UK, we provide discounted calls and line rental charges to tax.
Over the last five years weve invested over 153m, an average members of The Charities Club, saving those charities 1.2m on of 1.18% of our adjusted profit before tax.
We see sport as a positive vehicle for change in young peoples lives.
Creating a connected society Through the donations of BT Sport customers, The Supporters This year, we extended our fibre footprint in the UK to more than Club funded nine new sports charities and community sports 25m premises and in line with our 2020 goal this means foundations this year four in the UK.
And we encourage people to around 8.5 out of 10 people can now access fibre-based products take up sport through the Join In campaign.
We plan to extend coverage even further so that fibre availability in the UK exceeds the Governments BT Group plcs shareholders current target of 95% by the end of 2017.
BT Group plc has around 825,000 shareholders.
As well as the We continue to push for greater digital inclusion, both by playing Annual Report and Annual General Meeting, BT Group plc keeps a leading role in the development of the Governments Digital its shareholders up to date with how were doing through regular Inclusion Outcomes Framework, and through the use of our own mailings.
These often include offers on our products and services products.
that are only available to shareholders.
Our website includes press releases, newsletters, presentations and webcasts that can also keep our shareholders informed.
The Strategic Report 13 Delivering our strategy BT Group plc held a general meeting in April 2015 at which The Procurement Profession, part of the BT Academy, has grown shareholders approved the acquisition of EE.
And in January 2016 this year, developing a rich library of over 120 training modules.
BT Group plc published a prospectus for the issue of new BT Group The website attracts more than 250 visits a month on average.
plc shares that were part of the consideration for the acquisition.
Our ambition is to have all our buyers accredited and licensed.
And Most of BT Group plc shares are held by institutional investors.
for a few of our expert practitioners to be recognised externally as There is an extensive investor relations programme aimed at fellows of CIPS Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply.
keeping existing investors informed and attracting new ones.
This We now have 198 licensed buyers.
And there are now five fellows programme includes: of CIPS 2014 15: two leading our procurement activities in BT.
reporting quarterly results, accompanied by a conference call or Choosing our suppliers presentation from senior management: We want to know who were doing business with and who is acting teach-ins on key topics: on our behalf.
So we: site visits for example this year we invited investors to an innovation event at Adastral Park : and choose suppliers using principles that make sure both we and the meetings and conference calls with investors both in the UK and supplier act ethically and responsibly: around the world.
check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way: In 2015 16, BT Group plc held 353 meetings or events with and institutional investors.
This compares with 369 in 2014 15. measure things like suppliers energy use, environmental impact We were voted the best company for investor relations in England and labour standards, and work with them to improve these.
in the Extel Survey 2015, for the second year running.
We also maintained our second place in the European telecoms sector.
And Ethical standards in our supply chain we won the IR Magazine award for best investor relations in the We want our suppliers employees to experience working conditions European Technology & Communications sector.
We send all but our lowest-risk suppliers an ethical standards questionnaire.
Based on their responses, we Our lenders follow up with any suppliers identified as high or medium risk.
This Our lenders, mainly banking institutions and bond holders, play an year we met our target to achieve 100% follow-up action within important role in our treasury and funding strategy.
We also visit supplier sites to make sure they meet our standards.
This year we visited 47 sites around the world, the These relationships are vital for funding the business and meeting same as last year.
We tell you more about this on page 54.
To comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and our Securities and Our pension schemes Exchange Commission SEC obligations, we repeated our annual We operate defined benefit and defined contribution pension research asking our BT product suppliers whether their products schemes.
The largest is the BT Pension Scheme BTPS which has contain certain minerals which may have been sourced from 301,500 members.
You can read more about it on page 54. conflict areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
As a result we have a better understanding of our suppliers own supply Our suppliers chains but were not yet at the point where we can declare an Our suppliers play a vital role: their products and services help us individual product to be entirely conflict mineral free.
We source from across the world and currently have suppliers in over 150 countries.
We spent around 10.2bn In June 2015 we filed with the SEC our 2014 report describing with our suppliers this year 2014 15: 9.4bn.
Around 64% of our conflict minerals approach and reflecting the supplier responses our spend is with the top 100 suppliers.
We will file the report for 2015 in May 2016.
We want to get the most from our suppliers especially from their The Modern Slavery Act, which came into effect in 2015, has diversity, skills and innovation.
The mix of suppliers keeps evolving meant that were reviewing the processes we use with our suppliers as we expand into markets such as mobility, TV and televised sport.
to address human rights risks in our supply chain.
This year weve grown our supplier base in IT security, to support our growing investment in cyber security.
But weve also removed Paying our suppliers over 2,800 suppliers from our procurement systems.
This year the average number of days between invoice date and supplier payment was 62 days globally 2014 15: 60 days, with As part of integrating EE, were working to identify opportunities 54 days for UK invoices.
for cost savings and efficiencies through our combined spend.
Suppliers can choose to use the BT Supplier Finance scheme which Our approach to procurement offers contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This reduces We have around 330 BT people in 30 countries working with their financing costs.
We introduced it in September 2013 and suppliers.
As part of our cost transformation activities weve its now one of the largest supplier finance schemes in the UK, concentrated on making the most of our relationships with supporting over 1.4bn of spend.
EE also operates a supplier our largest suppliers to get even better value.
management of our top 130 suppliers has delivered savings of These schemes are attractive for SMEs who make up around 40% around 18m.
It also supports UK government initiatives to Weve continued our Purchase Order PO Intercept programme, encourage small business growth.
reviewing all POs over 1,000 to make sure that were getting We also follow the principles of the Better Payment Practice the best from our spend across BT.
Our Central Business Services Code set up by the Government in partnership with business organisation has hired more people to support this programme.
Theyve reviewed around 90,000 POs, accounting for 4bn of spend, and have saved us more than 15m.
14 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Human rights Forexample: The human rights of our employees, people working in our supply We run N3, the National Health Services secure national chain, our customers and members of the communities where we network.
operate could be affected by the way we do business.
We think We provide telecoms services to the Ministry of Defence and about what these effects could be and try to positively impact the contact centre and conferencing services to the Department for experience and approach for those we work with.
We also consider Work and Pensions.
how we can remove or reduce potential negative impacts in Weve recently started working with the NHS Islington Clinical accordance with the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Commissioning Group and the London Borough of Islington to Rights UNGPs.
provide a service that will help join up health and social care in Its important that everyone in BT, and everyone who works with Islington and improve the experience of care for the boroughs us, understands our commitment to the UNGPs.
commit to them in The Way We Work, our statement of business Were working with Bromley Council to deliver computer and practice.
data centre services which will help provide them with greater flexibility in running their IT services.
We have other policies to address specific issues which might Were working with the Government to extend fibre broadband to affect human rights, such as: supply chain standards: diversity and rural areas under the Broadband Delivery UK BDUK scheme.
inclusion: and safety and wellbeing in the workplace.
In December, EE was awarded a contract to provide the Were in the process of drawing together our approach into one emergency services workers with nationwide 4G voice and data overarching human rights policy so that anyone can easily access services.
our principles and understand how we put them into practice.
We can be required by law to do certain things and provide As were a communications provider, the rights to privacy and certain services to the Government.
For example, under the freedom of expression are the human rights which could be most Communications Act, we and others can be required to provide at risk from our operations: or restore services during disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also says that the Government can impose obligations on Privacy because we must comply with laws on investigatory us and others at times of emergency or in connection with civil powers.
These allow governments, in certain situations, to contingency planning.
request information about how people use our services and the The Secretary of State for the Home Department can also require content of their communications.
us to take certain actions in the interests of national security.
Freedom of expression because although we dont host much online content ourselves, we do help people get online.
So if we Regulation block content which we do in very limited circumstances, that Communications and TV services are regulated by governmental could clearly affect peoples rights to express their views and and non-governmental bodies in the UK and around the world.
This is to make sure that CPs and broadcasters comply with We support and respect peoples rights to privacy and free common standards and rules, and that nobody is disadvantaged by expression, though we accept that sometimes there may need providers with strong positions in their markets.
to be limitations on those rights, as international human rights standards allow.
Any limitations should be within clear legal European Union EU regulation frameworks with the right checks and balances.
In December In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services 2015 we published our Privacy and Free Expression in UK are governed by directives and regulations set by the European Communications report which explains our approach to this in Commission EC.
These create a Europe-wide framework known more detail.
as the European Common Regulatory Framework covering services such as fixed and mobile voice, broadband, cable and satellite TV.
Our Human Rights Steering Group, which is chaired by a member of the BT Group plc Operating Committee, meets quarterly.
This year it The directives include rules covering: considered a broad range of issues, including: access and interconnection: our approach to an overarching human rights policy: universal service obligations: and our due diligence processes when it comes to winning business: a requirement for national regulators to review markets for the Modern Slavery Act 2015: significant market power SMP every three years and to put our supply chain: and appropriate and proportionate SMP remedies in place.
specific human rights issues arising from day-to-day business.
Companies with SMP typically have a market share of 40% or Were developing an enhanced human rights due diligence tool more and would, without regulation, be able to do things such as for our global sales team.
Weve also undertaken detailed human increase prices without losing business to competitors as would rights impact assessments on a number of potential business happen in a fully competitive market.
The directives also cover how opportunities.
As a result, we took a range of mitigating steps such regulators should impose remedies to prevent the exercise of SMP, as including detailed contractual provisions, integrating human for example by setting price controls.
The rules require national rights considerations into customer training and ongoing project regulators to consult with the EC on any remedies before they are monitoring.
Weve also turned down business opportunities on the finalised to make sure theyre consistent with European regulations.
basis of human rights concerns.
Functional separation of the access network from downstream retail businesses is included in the EU Common Regulatory Our relationship with HM Government Framework list of remedies.
But its positioned as an exceptional We are one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services to the remedy, requiring a high burden of proof of market failure, and UK public sector.
We work with more than 1,400 organisations subject to EC approval.
Structural separation, unless self-imposed, across central, local and devolved government, healthcare, police is not included.
and defence to provide some of the UKs most vital services.
The Strategic Report 15 Delivering our strategy In May 2015, the EC announced its strategy for the Digital Single included the creation of Openreach began in September 2005.
Market which includes a plan to review the European Common They aim to give clarity and certainty to the UK telecoms industry Regulatory Framework.
As part of this review, the EC will assess about the way we provide wholesale regulated products.
This how to encourage investment in infrastructure and how to make in turn supports effective and fair competition in related retail current telecoms and media rules fit for new challenges and new markets.
The EC is also reviewing copyright and content Ofcom announced in March 2015 that, ten years on from the policy.
Any changes are expected to be implemented by mid 2017. last one, it would carry out a new strategic review, this time of the wider digital communications industry.
UK regulation The telecoms and broadcasting industries are regulated primarily by The review has looked at ways to improve investment, innovation, Ofcom the UKs independent regulator within the framework set and sustainable competition across fixed-line, broadband and by the various European directives, the Communications Act 2003 mobile markets, and at ways to ensure that where regulation is the Communications Act and other UK and EU regulations and necessary, it is targeted with deregulation elsewhere.
also looked at ways of empowering consumers.
The telecoms sector is subject to an extensive ex-ante regulatory On 25 February 2016, Ofcom published its initial conclusions: framework set out under the European Common Regulatory Ofcom sees passive access to Openreachs underground ducts and Framework.
By contrast, broadcasting and pay-TV is only currently telephone poles as key to its future competition policy, especially subject to a mixture of separate, specific regulation and general to encourage investment in  by other competition law.
Ofcom wants an improved process for getting access The Communications Act and Ofcom to this infrastucture, including an online database of its location, The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out condition and capacity.
how electronic communication and broadcasting services should be Ofcom wants a strengthened model of functional separation regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions set by the European of Openreach so that it can take its own decisions on budget, directives.
Ofcoms main duties are: investment and strategy, in consultation with the wider industry.
Ofcom intends to introduce: tougher rules on faults, repairs and To further the interests of citizens in relation to communications installations: transparent information on service quality: and matters.
automatic compensation for consumers when things go wrong.
To further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where Ofcom will work with the Government to deliver a new universal appropriate by promoting competition.
right to fast, affordable broadband for every household and Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets business in the UK.
Also, when Ofcom releases spectrum for conditions that CPs must comply with.
Some conditions, known as mobile operators, it intends to impose obligations to improve General Conditions, apply to all CPs.
These mainly deal with: rural mobile coverage.
protecting consumers: Weve made a number of proposals to Ofcom to address its access and interconnection: concerns.
These include a new governance structure for Openreach planning for emergencies: and a clear commitment on investment.
Were happy for other providing information to Ofcom: and companies to use our ducts and poles which have been open to allocating and transferring phone numbers.
Other conditions apply to certain companies that are universal Overseas regulation service providers or which Ofcom has decided have SMP in a The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
Were the designated universal service provider This can hinder our ability to compete and provide the services our for the UK except for the Hull area where it is KCOM Group and customers require.
Were pressing incumbent operators around the so we have certain obligations.
The main one is to make sure world, and their national regulatory authorities, for fairer, costthat basic fixed-line services are available at an affordable price related wholesale access to their networks.
Were also obliged to provide public payphones, Were also in discussions with both EC and US regulatory authorities although we can remove those that are uneconomic subject to over what we believe to be premature deregulation of parts of the local consultation and agreement by local authorities.
This has made it more difficult for non-US CPs We have SMP in a number of markets including Business to enter and compete in the US, while European telecoms markets Connectivity such as Ethernet and backhaul, Fixed Access remain open to competition from US operators.
including LLU, GEA and WLR and Wholesale Narrowband such as Call Origination.
Ofcoms market reviews are therefore very important for us.
Following a market review, if Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it can put controls in place, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
Ofcom will generally try to set charges that are reasonably based on costs and an appropriate return on the capital invested.
CPs affected by Ofcom decisions can appeal them through a number of routes, including to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT or to the High Court.
BTs Undertakings In response to Ofcoms 2005 Strategic Review of Telecommunications we gave some legally-binding undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
