Governance Audit Committee Ian McHoul Audit Committee Chairman The Committee confirms that during the year the group has On behalf of the Audit Committee, complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Iam pleased to present its report for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee the year ended 2 October 2016.
It has Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the UK been another busy year for the Competition and Markets Authority.
Committee and the purpose of this Role of the Committee report is to describe how the The Committees role is to ensure appropriate oversight and Committee has carried out its review of the presentation and integrity of the financial reporting and statements, internal control and risk management, internal responsibilities during the year.
audit programmes, changes in regulatory requirements, and the independence and appointment of external auditors.
The terms During the year, we welcomed Euan Sutherland as a member of of reference for the Audit Committee can be found on our the Committee and he is already proving to be a valued member.
com investors corporate-governance As disclosed in the 2015 annual report, we indicated that we corporate-governance.
intended to carry out a tender for external audit services.
Following To enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities, a robust and comprehensive process, we concluded that it was discussions on a broad range of topics and reports were held in the best interests of the company to retain Ernst & Young LLP, with management, internal audit and the external auditors our incumbent auditors, subject to approval at the AGM in 2017. throughout the year.
This provided us with insight into the Further details of the process and our approach to the tender progress towards the companys strategic goals and the can be found on page 55. challenges and risks and how they are being managed.
The Following changes to The UK Corporate Governance Code in activities of the Committee can be found below on page 52.
2014 the Code, the Board is now required to include a statement The Committee has an open dialogue throughout the year with on the groups longer term viability.
We have played a supporting the Director of Audit and Risk and the external auditors to raise role in enabling the Board to have confidence in making this challenges and questions to support understanding whilst statement through preparing and assessing key assumptions sharing experience and an independent perspective.
In addition, the Committee has placed further emphasis on our assessment of principal risks facing the company including our controls for mitigating these risks and how effective these controls are.
We continue to consider and challenge the integrity of the groups financial statements, significant areas of judgement and other relevant financial information as appropriate.
50 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 50 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Audit Committee continued The most significant matters discussed over the course of the Meetings and Composition of the Committee year are described in the report below.
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, John Daly, Ben Gordon, Euan Sutherland and the Chairman of Responsibilities the Committee is Ian McHoul.
The board is satisfied that Ian has Reviewing the financial results announcements and financial recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
statements and any significant financial reporting issues and The Committee meets three times a year: in November and May judgements which they may contain: to review the annual report and accounts and interim report Advising the board on whether the annual report and respectively and to consider the external audit findings, and in accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and September to review the activities of the previous year, the plan understandable and provide the information necessary for for the year ahead and to consider any emerging issues.
At each shareholders to assess the groups performance, business meeting the performance and findings of the internal audit team model and strategy: are reviewed and the most recent key risks are considered.
Ensuring compliance with applicable accounting standards The attendance of the Committee for each meeting during the and reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies and year can be found on page 42.
Attendees at each of the practices in place: meetings are the Committees members as well as, by invitation, Assessing the adequacy of the internal control environment the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Director of and the processes in place to monitor this, including reviewing Finance Controls & Governance, the General Counsel, the the activities and performance of the internal audit team: Director of Audit and Risk and the external auditor, Ernst and Reviewing risk management processes and considering the Young LLP.
adequacy of the actions being taken to identify risks and reduce the exposure of the group to those risks: Each meeting allows time for the Committee to speak with key people without the presence of the others, in particular the Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, external auditor and the Director of Audit and Risk.
reviewing their activities and performance and advising the board on their appointment and remuneration: including an assessment of their effectiveness, independence and Main activities during the year objectivity: The Committee supports the board in carrying out its responsibilities Review of the effectiveness of the Committee as required in relation to financial reporting, risk management and assessing under the Code: and internal controls.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the groups Ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals to raise internal audit function and manages the relationship with the external issues with the board where a breach of conduct or compliance, auditor.
The Committee ensures that the group has appropriate including any financial reporting irregularity, is suspected.
provision for confidential and impartial whistleblowing process in line with good practice.
Committee meetings usually take place prior to a board meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee subsequently reports on the activities of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to theboard.
making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 51 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 51 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Audit Committee continued The Committee undertook the following activities during the course of the year to discharge its responsibilities: November Review of financial statements including changes to accounting policies, key issues and judgments and assessment that the statements are fair, balanced and understandable Review of the CFO report on accounting issues and judgements Review findings of the external audit including any accounting and audit adjustments Effectiveness of external auditors including audit process, independence and objectivity Recommend the appointment of external auditors Internal audit update, including review of risk management processes Review year-end risk and internal controls Cyber security update May Review of the CFO report on accounting issues and judgements Review of interim financial report including any changes to accounting policies Review of findings from the external auditors half year review, including any adjustments Review of the annual external audit plan including scope of the engagement for the year Internal audit & risk update Viability statement update Review of risk management processes Review of treasury policies Cyber security update External audit tender update September Key accounting judgements for the full year financial statements and any potential issues Internal audit & risk update including approval of audit plan for the next financial year, significant audit findings and progress against previous outstanding audit actions Review status of risk management processes including a review of viability statement work In addition to the formal schedule of Committee meetings, the Committee held meetings to discuss the approach to the tender for external audit services and further information on this key activity can be found on page 55.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment At the request of the board, the Committee considered whether the 2016 annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
To enable the board to have confidence in making this statement, the Committee considered the elements in the table below: FAIR BALANCED UNDERSTANDABLE Is the whole story being presented?
Is there a good level of consistency Is there a clear and understandable between the narrative in the front half framework to the report?
Has any sensitive material been omitted and the financial reporting in the back that should have been included?
Are the key messages in the narrative Is the annual report considered a Are the important messages highlighted reflected in the financial reporting?
Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate Are statutory and adjusted measures Is the layout clear with good linkage level based on the financial reporting?
explained clearly with appropriate throughout in a manner which reflects prominence?
Are the key judgments referred to in the narrative reporting and the significant issues reported in the Audit Committee report consistent with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
How do they compare with the risks that the auditors plan to include with their report?
52 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 52 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Audit Committee continued To form its opinion, the Committee reflected on the information The disclosures provided are clear, and as required by financial and reporting it received from management and the external auditor reporting standards: and the discussions that took place during the year.
Key Reporting and commentary provides a fair and balanced view considerations for the Committee in 2016 include the following: of group performance: and Any correspondence from regulators received in relation to our The financial statements comply with all applicable financial financial reporting are considered and disclosures are updated reporting standards and any other required regulations: if required.
Material areas of significant judgement have been given due consideration by management and reviewed with external To ensure these considerations are met, reviews take place based auditors: on information provided by the Chief Financial Officer and his The application of acceptable accounting policies and team at each Committee meeting as well as reports from the practices is consistent across the group: external auditor based on the outcomes of their half year review and annual audit.
Financial statements and significant issues Significant financial and reporting issues considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 financial statements, and how these were addressed are as follows: Revenue There has been no change in the group approach to revenue recognition in 2016, however recognition it remains a key area of focus.
The control, accounting and accuracy of long term discounts, promotional discounts and account development funds is reviewed throughout the year to ensure it remains consistent and IFRS compliant.
Developments in the market have also been discussed with the Committee, where continued challenging conditions increase the focus of our customers on rebates and promotional spend.
The impact of this is continually monitored by management and reviewed with the external auditor to ensure that policy and practice remains consistent across the group, with robust controls in place.
The review of goodwill and intangible assets is based on a calculation of value in use, using cash Valuation of goodwill and flow projections based on market measures and financial budgets prepared by senior management indefinite lived assets and approved by the board of directors.
The assessment models were reviewed as part of the audit, for which the external auditor, provided reporting to the Committee.
The Committee has also considered management reports on potential triggers of impairment and the outcome of sensitivity testing for all areas of the group including France, Ireland and Brazil and also the potential reversal of prior year impairments.
Despite the impact of Brexit and uncertain macro economic conditions in Brazil, the Committee was satisfied that there is no requirement or impairment or reversal of impairments made in prior years.
Following the acquisition of Ebba in 2016, management has calculated the purchase price allocation Acquisition accounting and resulting goodwill to be accounted for in the group accounts.
The Committee has reviewed and approved the approach to these calculations, including areas of judgement and potential risks.
In addition, the Committee has discussed the integration approach, progress and associated oneoff costs and is satisfied that the plans, execution and outcome are proportionate to the investment and risk associated with the acquisition.
Exceptional & other items The classification of exceptional items is defined by a group accounting policy, as approved by the Committee, and includes items of significant income and expense which due to their size, nature or frequency merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year.
Management have reviewed items to be included with the Committee throughout the year to confirm appropriateness.
The group has derivative instruments to which hedge accounting is applied and which swap Derivative and hedging principal and interest of US Private Placement notes.
The Committee reviewed reporting on activities comparisons of valuations to external confirmations and assessment of hedge effectiveness to be satisfied with the quality of financial statement disclosures.
Taxation Any uncertain tax positions within the group were reviewed to ensure that the balance sheet provisions are appropriate and the group effective tax rate is calculated appropriately.
The Committee reviewed benchmarks and assumptions that are provided by the groups actuaries Defined benefit pension and used to value the pension liabilities for the four defined benefit schemes.
The underlying scheme valuation assumptions based on market conditions and the characteristics of the schemes are reviewed by management and the external auditors and conclusions reported to the Committee.
The triennial valuation of the GB scheme as at 31 March 2016 is currently underway and is expected to be complete by 31 March 2017.
The Committee has been updated by management on current progress and will receive further reporting upon completion of the valuation.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board that, taken as a whole, the Companys 2016 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 53 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 53 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Audit Committee continued Internal audit and control Internal control The Internal Audit function carries out work across the Company, The board is responsible for reviewing the adequacy and acting as a third line of defence.
In September, the Committee effectiveness of the risk management framework and the system agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the internal audit team of internal controls.
The board has delegated responsibility for prior to the start of the year.
The audit plan coverage is based on this review to the Committee.
Management in each business unit risk, strategic priorities and consideration of the strength of the are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control environment.
Functions such as finance, legal, procurement and quality are responsible for setting out the Company policies to be The Committee receives a report at each of the meetings and followed by the business units.
The Committee, through the Internal reviews the results of the Internal Audit reports, looking in detail Audit function reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of internal at any reports where processes and controls require control procedures and identifies any weaknesses and ensures improvement or any reports that are particularly pertinent to these are addressed within agreed timelines.
delivery of strategic objectives or priorities.
For example, a focus of the Internal Audit work was a review of the Ebba acquisition The system of internal control has been designed to manage which was reported to the Committee.
As a result the Committee rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our were able to understand the development of the controls strategic and business objectives and can only provide framework in Ebba.
Updates are received on progress made reasonable, and not absolute assurance against material against actions agreed from previous audits and an update on misstatement of loss.
the overall control environment progress related to previous audit The risk management process is reviewed annually by the areas.
Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk Additional areas were added to the audit plan as required where management across the group.
The risk management process is circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk and any continually improving, in particular in relation to embedding changes to the agreed audit plan were agreed by the Committee.
across new and developing areas of the business.
The Committee Detailed updates on specific areas are provided at the request of believe that the improvements will continue to strengthen the way the Committee.
that the business understands and manages risk.
Risk management External audit During the year, the Committee reviewed the Financial Reporting There are a number of areas that the Committee considers in Council changes to the Code and considered how these changes relation to the external auditors: their performance in discharging would impact risk management processes and the work that the audit and the interim review, their independence and objectivity, needed to be carried out to enable the Board to make the viability and their reappointment and remuneration.
The Chairman of the statement.
The risk management process is reviewed at each Committee has regular contact with the external audit partner meeting by the Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver outside of Committee meetings and without the management appropriate risk management across the group.
A particular of the business present.
focus during this year has been on defining the groups risk The external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, provided the appetite.
This is an expression of the amount and types of risk Committee with their plan for undertaking the year end audit that the group is willing to take to achieve its strategic and which highlighted the proposed approach and scope of the audit operational objectives.
The Board has agreed these statements for the coming year and identified the key areas of audit risk, which are now being used in decision making processes across including the audit approach for these areas.
These key areas the group to define and validate the mitigating activities required were primarily identified as areas of judgement and complexity to manage our risks.
Additionally during the year the risk and included accounting for discounts, acquisition accounting for management process was rolled out to Ebba.
Ebba, exceptional items classification, the carrying value of A summary of the key risks and uncertainties to which the goodwill and indefinite lived assets, the accounting for the business is exposed to can be found on pages 28 and 31. groups derivatives and hedging activities, revenue recognition and the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The Committee reviewed and appropriately challenged the basis for Viability statement these before agreeing the proposed approach and scope of the The Committee reviewed managements work in conducting a external audit.
robust assessment of those risks which could threaten the business model and the future viability of the Company was The external auditors prepared a detailed report of their audit carried out.
This assessment included identifying severe but findings at the year end, which they took the Committee through plausible scenarios for each of our principal risks as well as at the meeting in November.
The findings were reviewed and considering interdependencies and scenarios involving multiple discussed in detail by the Committee, particularly in relation to risks.
Additionally, reverse stress testing was carried out, allowing the areas highlighted above.
A similar review of the external the Committee to assess the circumstances that would render auditors report of their findings at the half year review is undertaken the business unable to pay its liabilities as they fall due.
As part of this review the Committee support the final conclusion on viability, the assessment also took questioned and challenged the work undertaken, the findings into account the mitigations available to the Company to protect and the key assumptions made, with particular attention to the against these downside scenarios.
Based on this analysis, the areas of audit risk identified.
Committee recommended to the Board that it could approve and make the Viability Statement on page 32.
54 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Audit Committee continued Tender for external audit services After a number of meetings with management, written proposals During the year, the Committee had oversight and responsibility were submitted by each firm followed by presentations to the for carrying out the tender for external audit services.
The Committee considered these proposals and spanned two phases, during which each firm was provided equal presentations and came to a recommendation, which was opportunity to engage with management and the Committee and proposed to the board.
Following due consideration by the to review relevant company information.
A total of four firms, board, the proposal was approved and a sub-committee was including the incumbent auditors, were invited to participate in established to agree the final outcome.
During the first phase, key decision criteria were unanimously agreed that EY be re-appointed as the companys agreed and included: partner fit, senior audit team capability, auditors having taken into account each of the decision criteria relevant understanding of the company, commercial insight, and quality of presentations, subject to shareholder approval at service history, transition approach and fees.
A description of the process undertaken is depicted below: Phase 1 Selection Invitation to tender Key criteria decided Review of company Stakeholder meetings information & presentations Phase 2 Shortlist Written submissions Presentations to Audit Committee Audit Committee deliberations Phase 3 Recommendation Sub-committee approves Audit Committee recommendation Board forms sub-committee final decision Non-audit fees Independence and reappointment The group has a policy regarding the provision of non-audit The Committee reviews the independence of the auditors services by the external auditors which has been reviewed during throughout the year.
The external auditor is required rotate the the year to take into consideration new regulations on non-audit lead audit partner every five years.
The current lead auditor services.
Any non-audit services provided must be pre-approved partner began his tenure for the financial year ended 30 September by the Committee unless the activity will have a total value of less 2013.
Based on the Committees recommendation, the board is than 5,000 and falls within the allowed services defined by FRC proposing that EY be reappointed to office at the AGM in January guidance.
Control over total non-audit fees is also exercised by reviewing spend on all activities proposed or provided by the external auditor and we can confirm that we are significantly below a 1:1 ratio in this financial year as disclosed in note 7 in the reports and accounts, and well within the FRC guidance of 70% cap that will be required from 2019.
Ian McHoul Chairman, Audit Committee Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 55 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 55 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Audit Committee continued making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable 56 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 56 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Audit Committee continued Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 57 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
