Governance Nomination committee Gerald Corbett Nomination Committee Chairman Committee members On behalf of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased to present its report for Gerald Corbett Chairman the year ended 2 October 2016.
It has John Daly been an eventful year for the Committee 1 Bob Ivell with a focus on succession planning.
Ben Gordon The Committee is responsible for Ian McHoul considering and recommending to the 1 Bob Ivell stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2016 board candidates who are appropriate The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, for appointment as Executive and John Daly, Ben Gordon, Ian McHoul and myself as Chairman.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends by invitation.
The Non-Executive Directors and for other Committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year.
senior management roles, so as to Main activities during the year maintain an appropriate balance of The Committee considered and has made recommendations skills and experience within the tothe board in respect of: company and on the board and to The appointment of Mathew Dunn, Chief Financial Officer, ensure progressive refreshing of the who succeeded John Gibney and was appointed to the board on 25 November 2015: board.
This report describes how the The search for a successor to Silvia Lagnado, Non-Executive Committee has carried out its Director, who resigned from the board on 31 July 2015 and responsibilities during the year.
subsequent appointments of Sue Clark and Euan Sutherland on 29 February 2016: A review of the board and committee membership following the changes to the composition of the board: The appointment of Hessel fide Jong, Managing Director, International, to succeed Simon Stewart who resigned on 30 October 2015: Succession planning for the Chairman: A review of the findings of the 2015 16 board evaluation for more information see page 46 Annual review of Directors potential conflicts of interest.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 47 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 47 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Nomination committee continued Appointment of Directors Succession planning There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Succession planning has continued to be an area of focus of the appointment of new directors to the board under which the Committee during the year.
This has included the succession of Committee interviews suitable candidates who are proposed longer standing members of the board, in particular, Bob Ivell either by existing board members or by an external search firm.
who stepped down from the board on 1 March 2016 having Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees reached his ninth year of tenure and initial conversations around have enough time available to devote to the role and that the succession planning for the role of the Chairman.
It was agreed balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board is that John Daly would succeed Bob Ivell as Senior Independent maintained.
When discussions relate to the appointment of a Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with Chairman, the Senior Independent Director will chair the Committee effect from the AGM in January 2016.
During the year, the and lead the recruitment process.
When the Committee has Committee were successful in finding a successor for Silvia found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will Lagnado, Non-Executive Director, through the appointment of make a proposal to the whole board, which retains responsibility Euan Sutherland and Sue Clark as an additional independent for all such appointments.
The Chairman of the Committee also Non-Executive Director to ensure that it maintains the appropriate provides a report of Committee meetings to the board.
balance of independent versus non-independent representation on the board.
The Committee recommended that Euan Sutherland join the Audit Committee and Sue Clark joined the Appointment processes Remuneration Committee.
The recruitment procedure described above was undertaken during the year for the appointments of Mathew Dunn, Sue Clark The Committee also made a recommendation to the board and Euan Sutherland.
During the year, the Committee engaged which resulted in the appointment of Hessel fide Jong as Spencer Stuart to assist with the recruitment process.
Gerald successor to Simon Stewart, International Managing Director.
Corbett serves on the Advisory Committee of Spencer Stuart and In terms of succession planning for the Chairmans role, accordingly it was agreed that Gerald should absent himself from recognising that the Board has undergone a number of changes discussions relating to the engagement of Spencer Stuart and during the year with the appointment of a new Chief Financial from discussions relating to their appointments.
John Daly, the Officer, a new Senior Independent Director and two new Senior Independent Director chaired the Nomination Committee non-executive directors, it is widely recognised as good practice which made the appointments.
John Daly shares a directorship to avoid sequencing of changes of key roles on the Board.
link with Tessa Bamford at Wolseley plc, who is a consultant at Therefore, the Chairman has agreed to remain until the current Spencer Stuart.
The Committee agreed that whilst a potential composition is settled.
To ensure stability in leadership, on-going conflict, this would not preclude John from acting within the best discussions have taken place during the year to understand the interests of the company.
most appropriate time for departure.
The formal process to Spencer Stuart held no other relations with the company, and the search for a successor to replace the Chairman will commence following process was undertaken: during the next financial year year ending 1 October 2017.
Role profiles were prepared against which potential candidates The Board acknowledges that Ben Gordon will reach his ninth year were considered: of tenure in January 2018, appropriate succession processes are in place and will be discussed during the coming year.
Interviews arranged between Chairman and an initial list of candidates, from which a shortlist of preferred candidates was selected: Diversity Other Non-Executive and Executive board members The Committee monitors diversity on behalf of the board.
At Britvic, interviewed the shortlist of candidates and provided feedback diversity is a wider topic than simply gender and the board to the Committee: recommend to the company that, in order to achieve its future The Committee considered these views in its deliberations growth aspirations, it should remain committed to building a before recommending a preferred candidate to the Board: and pipeline of diverse talent and to regularly review its HR processes, The Board approved the appointment as recommended.
including recruitment and performance management frameworks.
There are a number of women in senior management roles.
The directors view, however, remains that we do not feel in a position to publish a target of the percentage of women on the board.
Further details of the companys statistics on gender diversity may be found on page 25 of the Strategic Report.
48 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 48 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Nomination committee continued Board evaluation Conflicts of interest Details of the review of the board and its committees, including As referred to on page 45, the Board operates a formal policy to this committee and the effectiveness of the Chairman, identify and where appropriate, manage any potential conflicts of undertaken during the year can be found on page 46. interest that Directors may have.
It is the role of the Committee to monitor the situation and determine actions to address any Having reviewed the results of the evaluation, the Committee has potential or actual conflicts that may arise.
confirmed to the board that the present board and its committees continue to operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive Directors remained independent, with the exception of Joanne Averiss PepsiCo nominated Director in accordance with the Code and all Directors should stand for re-election or election in the case of Sue Clark and Euan Sutherland at the AGM.
Shareholder Engagement Investor Relations Private Investors The board is committed to maintaining good communications We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, we encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox investors@ Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have regular britvic.
com for detailed inquiries and to access our website for dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop our company reports and business information.
Specific inquiries an understanding of their views which is then discussed with the to the Company Secretary may be sent to the Secretariat board.
All directors are offered the opportunity to meet with major mailbox company.
com or sent to the shareholders to listen to their views and, in addition to a monthly registered office.
report prepared by the Chief Financial Officer, receive regular At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives a regular update reports prepared by an independent capital markets advisory firm onthe positioning and outlook for the business.
Shareholders are which provides comprehensive information relating to the invited to ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow companys major shareholders.
up these discussions with directors on a one-to-one basis Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective afterwards.
The chairmen of the board committees and the investors covering the annual and interim results and the company Senior Independent Director are present and available to respond seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor to questions at the AGM.
We look forward to welcoming all our the companys governance policies and procedures.
The Strategic shareholders to our 2017 AGM in January and to updating them Report set out on pages 19 to 31 details the financial performance on our business developments.
of the company as well as setting out the risks it faces.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 49 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
