NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder The objectives of the committee are to ensure the board comprises individuals possessing the requisite skills, knowledge and experience and to review and make recommendations to the Board to ensure that the Companys arrangements are consistent with best practice corporate governance standards.
The nomination and governance committee was chaired by me throughout the year up to the date of my resignation on 1 April 2016.
The other members of the committee are currently SIMON PATTERSON Andrew Higginson, Lesley Jones, Ron McMillan and Fiona Laird.
Chairman of the Nomination and Fiona Laird took on the role as Chairman on 1 April 2016, Governance Committee following my resignation.
NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE The formal terms of reference for this committee require it to make recommendations to the board for appointments of Member No.
of meetings directors including, when appropriate, the Chairman of the Simon Patterson Chairman 1 2 board and also directors of the operating board and other resigned 1 April 2016 senior executive staff of the operating company.
Where appropriate, the Chief Executive and Company Secretary Andrew Higginson 2 2 are invited to attend meetings of the committee.
Lesley Jones 2 2 Ron McMillan 2 2 During the year the committee met on one occasion with full Fiona Laird 2 2 attendance by all members.
Activities undertaken during the year included a review of the committees terms of reference, RESPONSIBILITIES the companys succession planning and a board evaluation.
Identifying and nominating candidates to fill board The committee evaluates board candidates on merit, against objective criteria, taking into account the skills and experience vacancies having evaluated the balance of skills, required to perform the duties of the post with due regard to knowledge and experience already on the board diversity and gender.
Where appropriate, external search and identified the capabilities required for a consultants are engaged.
"particular appointment: MWM Consulting LLP ""MWM"" are appointed by the Succession planning, taking into account the skills Committee as external agents to assist in the discharge of and expertise needed on the board in the future: its duties and, following my resignation, they are assisting the Committee with a comprehensive external candidate search and selection process to find a suitable replacement Reviewing the structure, size and composition independent director with the appropriate mix of skills and including the skills, knowledge and experience experience."
The Company will continue to keep you updated of the board and making recommendations to about any developments in this regard.
MWM has no other the board with regard to any changes: and connection with the Company.
Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group to ensure the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Simon Patterson Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Identifying and nominating a suitable candidate to fill the non-executive director vacancy following the resignation of Simon Patterson: Identifying and developing the Groups future leaders: and Reviewing and, where appropriate, recommending changes to the induction and development programme for directors.
N Brown Group plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2016
