CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Introduction The board considers that, throughout the Diversity This corporate governance statement year, at least half of the board, excluding The board recognises the importance explains the key features of the Group's the chairman, comprised independent of diversity, including gender, at all levels governance structure and how it non-executive directors and that the of the company as well as on the board.
"complies with the UK corporate composition of the board had the The company is committed to equal governance code the ""code""."
This necessary balance of executive and opportunities and increasing diversity statement also includes items required non-executive directors to provide across our operations in terms of relevant by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure the requisite skills, experience, challenge skills, experience, ethnicity and gender.
"and Transparency Rules ""DTR's"", except and judgement appropriate for the The board now comprises five male as specifically highlighted within this requirements of the business and full directors and three female directors."
statement the Directors consider that board effectiveness.
The board continues to consider how the Group has, throughout the year diversity can be enhanced through the complied with the provisions of the code.
Save for Simon Patterson, all board board and the senior management teams members remain in place as at the and across the Group generally, whilst Board composition date of this report.
ensuring that it appoints only the most The board comprises nine directors of appropriate candidates to the board.
whom seven are non-executive including Pursuant to the Code, all directors are the chairman.
Of the seven non-executive required to retire and submit themselves Gender diversity directors, Lord Alliance of Manchester for re-election annually.
Accordingly, We currently have 33% female diversity and Ivan Fallon are not considered by the each of the continuing directors will at board level and 37.5% on the Home board to be independent.
The Chairman retire at the forthcoming annual general Shopping board.
This is over the current was considered independent at the time meeting and offer themselves for Government target of 25% by 2015, of his appointment.
established in the Davies review, and significantly higher than the current Full biographical details of all directors With the exception of Ivan Fallon, FTSE 250 who have achieved appear on pages 50 and 51. who remains on a three month rolling representation at 19.9%.
We believe arrangement, all non-executive directors that gender representation makes good There is a clear division of responsibilities serve on letters of appointments business sense, given that women make between the Chairman, Andrew stipulating 3 year terms.
All appointments up over half of the UK population and Higginson, who is responsible for the are terminable, without compensation, almost 60% of our total workforce.
effective operation of the board and the on between three and six months notice Chief Executive, Angela Spindler, who is by either party and are subject to other Strengthening our executive pipeline responsible for the Groups operational early termination provisions without remains a priority for us and we continue performance.
compensation, for example in the to open up new opportunities for women event a director is not re-elected at in the business, working with headThe board understands the need for the annual general meeting.
hunters and agencies that can provide non-executive directors to be and remain true gender diversification in their independent of the management in The board, having carried out a candidate bases.
order to be able to exercise proper performance evaluation, believes the oversight and effectively challenge the performance of all directors and their To provide role models in the business executive directors.
The non-executive commitment to the role of director and break the glass ceiling we are directors who served during the financial continues to be fully effective.
Further members of Women on Boards.
year ended 27 February 2016 were: details of this evaluation can be found Our aim is to allow development of on page 58. board directors and to allow directors Andrew Higginson Chairman : to take up non-executive roles in other Lord Alliance of Manchester: Appointments to the board are made businesses where opportunities arise.
Ivan Fallon: solely on merit based on the skills and Fiona Laird: experience offered by the candidate and Simon Patterson required by the role.
This ensures that all resigned 1 April 2016 : appointees have the best mix of skills and Ron McMillan: and time to devote themselves effectively Lesley Jones to the business of the board and to discharge their duties to the best of Simon Patterson resigned from the their ability.
board in April 2016 in order to take up another role outside the company.
Details of directors contract terms I would like to thank Simon personally are shown in the Remuneration Report for his contribution to the company.
In accordance with An external agency has been appointed the Code, the company has made the to assist in the recruitment of a terms and conditions of appointment replacement non-executive director, of the non-executive directors available in relation to which an announcement for inspection will follow in due course.
N Brown Group plc 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Gender split Board operation and evaluation Details of all of the members of the Home At the date of this report the gender split An effective board of directors leads Shopping Board is set out on page 23. male female, senior management and and controls the Group.
The members entire workforce is as follows: of the board are named below.
The In November the members of the board board met 9 times during the year.
met with the Home Shopping Board over Directors attendance at board a two day period to review the progress SENIOR MANAGEMENT % meetings was as follows: being made against, and the future development of, the Groups long-term Attendance rolling strategic plan.
46% Andrew Higginson 9 Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 8 Board papers include detailed management reports from the Chief Angela Spindler 9 Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, Ivan Fallon 9 management accounts, broker analyses, Dean Moore 2 compliance and regulatory briefings and 54% resigned 30 April 2015 bespoke reports.
A comprehensive pack Fiona Laird 9 of papers is electronically circulated to Male 24 each director not less than seven days Simon Patterson 8 Female 19 prior to each board meeting.
Budgetary resigned 1 April 2016 performance and forecasts are reviewed Ron McMillan 9 and revised at each meeting.
Outside Lesley Jones 9 EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY % of the meeting there is a regular flow Craig Lovelace 8 of information between the directors joined 11 May 2015 57% including the weekly dissemination of management information statistics.
The board is responsible for all major policy decisions and for determining the Non-executive directors meet with operational and strategic risks it is willing operational teams and the Home to take in achieving its objectives.
The Shopping Board and undertake site 43% board has, where necessary, delegated visits to ensure that they have the operational matters to its committees most up-to-date knowledge and and sub-committees, and to its executive understanding of the company and Male 1,158 and operational directors and senior its activities and to enable the broader Female 1,555 officers.
The board is collectively population of the Group to benefit responsible for providing effective from the skills and experience of the leadership and promoting the success non-executive directors.
of the Group and works to a formal list of matters reserved for the board All board members are permitted to a copy of which is available on the obtain independent professional advice companys website, www.
in respect of their own fiduciary duties Matters reserved to the board include, and obligations and have full and direct amongst other things, decisions on access to the Company Secretary, who business strategy, the approval of is a qualified solicitor and who attends financial statements, the annual capital all board and committee meetings as and operating expenditure plans, secretary.
The Company Secretary investment, treasury and dividend provides an on-going programme of policies, governance issues, major briefings for directors covering legal and capital projects, overseeing the regulatory changes and developments Groups risk control procedures, board relevant to the Groups activities and membership and the composition of directors areas of responsibility.
The its committees and the Groups ethical, Company Secretary is also responsible social and environmental policies.
for the induction of new directors.
New directors are provided with a The board governs through clearly comprehensive pack of information mandated committees, accompanied by including terms of reference, information robust monitoring and reporting regarding the business and guidance on systems.
Further detail is given below.
their roles and duties as directors and meetings site visits with key employee Day-to-day management of the Groups contacts are arranged as appropriate.
activities is delegated to the operational Inductions to the business for new board, known as the Home Shopping directors are designed to expose them board, on which Angela Spindler and to all areas of the Groups operations Craig Lovelace from 11 May 2015 sit as but with particular emphasis on each chief executive officer and chief financial directors area of expertise.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Board effectiveness appraisal Board activities in 2015 16 In accordance with Main Principle Some of the key activities that the board B.
6 of the Code an internal effectiveness has covered over the past year are: review of the board, its committees and its individual directors was undertaken Setting and reviewing the Groups during the second half of the year by way business plan and annual budget.
of a tailored, high-level questionnaire Oversight of major capital projects, which was distributed for the directors including the major warehouse to complete.
extension at Shaw and Fit 4 the Future.
Governance and risk control, including The responses to the evaluation of the oversight of our application to the FCA Board and its Committees were reviewed for full authorisation.
with the Chairman and then considered Performance of a robust assessment by the Board.
The overall view was that of the principal risks facing the Group, the Board remains effective, positive and including those that would threaten cohesive and there has been progress in the business model, future relation to the areas for improvement performance, solvency or liquidity, identified in the 2014 evaluation exercise.
and a review of all internal controls Some actions were identified as a result material, more details of which are set of the evaluation and based on these, the out in pages 28 and 29 of this report.
Board has agreed a set of objectives for Monitoring the Group's risk 2016 17. management and internal control systems, including a review of their Beyond the annual evaluation, the effectiveness.
performance of the executive directors is continuously monitored throughout Committees of the Board the year by the Chairman and the senior The board delegates authority to a non-executive director.
number of committees to deal with specific aspects of management The Chairman reviews and agrees and to maintain supervision over the with each director their training and internal control policies and procedures development needs.
These committees meet regularly and have formal written Directors conflicts of interest terms of reference which are available The Articles of Association of the for inspection on the companys website.
company give the directors the power The minutes of the meetings of these to consider and, if appropriate, authorise committees are circulated to all conflict situations where a directors committee members in advance of declared interest may conflict or the next following committee meeting, does conflict with the interests of at which they are ratified.
committees of the board have been established: Procedures are in place at every meeting for individual directors to report and an audit committee: record any potential or actual conflicts a remuneration committee: which arise.
The register of reported a nominations and governance conflicts is reviewed by the board at least committee: and annually.
The board has complied with a corporate social responsibility these procedures during the year.
External appointments or other After each committee meeting the significant commitments of the chairman of that committee makes a directors require the prior approval formal report to the board of directors of the Board.
Details of such external detailing the business carried out by appointments can be found in the the committee and setting out its directors biographies set out on recommendations.
Andrew Higginson Chairman N Brown Group Plc N Brown Group plc 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2016
