Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder The Audit Committee exercises oversight of the Groups financial policies and reporting.
It monitors the integrity of the financial statements and reviews and considers significant financial and accounting estimates and judgements.
The committee satisfies itself that the disclosures in the financial statements about these judgements and estimates are appropriate and obtains from the external auditor an independent view of the key disclosure issues and risks.
RON MCMILLAN Amongst other things, during the year the committee Chairman of the Audit Committee considered: The regulatory environment in which the Group operates: The Groups approach to and methodology for provisioning THE AUDIT COMMITTEE for bad and doubtful receivables, in particular the application of IAS 39: Member No.
of meetings The Groups approach to and methodology for provisioning Ron McMillan Chairman 4 4 for inventory: The Groups exposure to corporate tax and VAT risks: Simon Patterson Resigned 1 April 2016 2 4 Treasury and cash management: Lesley Jones 4 4 Financial crime and fraud: Fiona Laird Since 1 April 2016 1 4 The Viability Statement: The presentation and appropriateness of exceptional RESPONSIBILITIES items: and The capitalisation of software development costs.
Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewing significant financial A key responsibility of the committee is to review the scope, judgements and estimates in advance of these nature and effectiveness of internal and external audits.
being considered by the board: The committee ensures that the head of internal audit has appropriate independence and authority, that the scope of Reviewing the Group's internal financial controls: internal audits work is not restricted and that the function has adequate resources.
The head of internal audit has a In conjunction with internal audit and the external direct reporting line to me.
The committee has also continued auditor, reviewing internal financial controls and to monitor and review the key aspects of the Groups external management's response to required corrective action: audit and, in relation to risk, the Committee undertook a full re-scoring of the corporate risk assessment during the year.
Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of Further information on the committees responsibilities and the Groups internal audit function, including activities the way in which they have been discharged is set out below.
and resources: I will be available at the annual general meeting in July to Overseeing the role and effectiveness of the Groups answer any questions you may have on this report and would external auditors, reviewing and monitoring their like to thank my colleagues on the audit committee for their objectivity and independence and agreeing the scope of help and support this year.
this work and fees for audit and non-audit services: and Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Ron McMillan Chairman of the Audit Committee PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Ens uring that Fit 4 the Future delivers the anticipated capabilities and benefits as they are delivered throughout the year: Reviewing and providing oversight to the introduction of more flexible and personalised Financial Services products: and Reviewing the Groups marketing investment to provide assurance that the Group continues to deliver improved customer experience and is able to adapt to changing customer behaviours through improved targeted marketing.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee composition Exposure to corporate tax and VAT The committee comprises a minimum of three members, all of The Group has a number of open items with the tax authorities whom are non-executive directors.
Two members constitute a and the calculation of the Groups potential liabilities or assets quorum.
The committee requires the inclusion of one financially in respect of these necessarily involves a degree of estimation qualified member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board sets and oversees the Groups tax The committee chairman fulfils that requirement.
All members strategy which evaluates tax risk.
In undertaking this task the are expected to have an understanding of financial reporting, Group uses its tax advisors and legal counsel.
During the year the Groups internal audit control environment, relevant the Groups tax advisers have kept the committee appraised of corporate legislation, the roles and functions of internal and existing and emerging risks and the committee has considered external audit and the regulatory framework of the business.
the appropriateness of related tax provisions and assets.
The members of the committee were: Inventory valuation Ron McMillan Chairman Provision is made where the net realisable value of stock is Simon Patterson resigned 1 April 2016 estimated to be lower than cost.
The committee recognises Fiona Laird appointed 1 April 2016 that there is an element of uncertainty in relation to the Lesley Jones estimation of net realisable value but considers that, taking into account historical experience, likely future selling values The Chairman, Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the and the availability of disposal channels, the provision made head of internal audit and the external auditor are invited to is appropriate.
attend audit committee meetings where appropriate.
Capitalisation of software development costs In addition to scheduled meetings, the chairman of the The committee has reviewed the treatment of the significant committee met with the Chief Financial Officer, the head software and project costs in respect of Fit 4 the Future in order of internal audit and the external auditor on a number of to satisfy itself that the Groups current approach in capitalising occasions during the year.
costs to the extent that future economic benefits are expected to be generated remains appropriate.
Activities The key matters considered by the committee during the In addition to the above matters and those set out in the letter year were: from the chairman of the committee on page 59, the work of the committee during the year included: Regulatory environment In common with the wider industry, the Group is now regulated Reviewing the draft interim and annual reports and considering: by the FCA, having historically being regulated by the OFT.
The accounting principles, policies and practices adopted Our FCA application is progressing in line with expectations.
and the adequacy of related disclosures in the reports: We recognise that changes in laws and regulations may impact 2.
The significant accounting issues, estimates and the Groups business, sector and market and the committee judgements of management in relation to financial therefore continues to review the work carried out by the reporting: Groups compliance function in order to satisfy itself that 3.
Whether any significant adjustments were required action is being taken to address the changes that are arising from the audit: required to comply with new regulations.
C ompliance with statutory tax obligations and the Groups tax policy: and Bad and doubtful debts 5.
Meeting with the internal and external auditor, both Following a review of the Group's accounting policies, with and in the absence of the executive directors.
"specifically the application of International Accounting Standard Reviewing and approving the resources of, the scope of work 39 ""IAS 39"" in relation to the provisioning for bad and doubtful undertaken by and the reports prepared by internal audit."
receivables, the Group announced a restatement of its debtor Reviewing the reports prepared by the external auditor impairment provisions and consequent increases to reported on key audit findings and any significant deficiencies in the profits during the year.
This was as a direct result of a change financial control environment.
in the technical interpretation of this accounting standard Reviewing and considering the Groups systems of internal and did not affect the way in which the Group operates.
risk control, sources of assurance and exposure to fraud and The committee is satisfied that the change in interpretation overseeing the development of a new risk model for aligning of IAS 39 does not reflect any changes to the Group's underlying identified risks with mitigating actions.
trading performance or on the risk profile of the Group's debtor Overseeing the management of the Groups whistleblowing balances.
The Group's current business practices, approach procedures which contain procedures for the committee to to payment arrangements and customer rehabilitation are all receive, in confidence, complaints on all operational matters.
unaffected by the revised IAS 39 accounting treatment.
Reporting to the board on how it has discharged its responsibilities, and Making recommendations to the board in respect of its findings in respect of all of the above matters.
N Brown Group plc 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Internal controls External auditors The committee has established a continuous process for In the 2015 Annual Report the Audit Committee confirmed identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the that it was undertaking a competitive tender to appoint new Group faces.
This monitoring is principally based on reviewing external auditors.
As part of the tender process a number of reports from senior management to consider whether significant firms were approached and from this a short list was selected.
operational risks are being identified, evaluated, managed and Following presentations from the short listed firms the Audit controlled and whether any significant weaknesses exist which Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG be need to be addressed.
During the year, committee members appointed as the Company Auditors.
The appointment have continued to receive, consider and approve updated risk was confirmed by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
evaluations from the operational directors.
Further details are given in the Risk Management section of this report.
The total fees paid to KPMG for the year ended 27 February 2016 were 0.8m, of which 0.5m was in respect of non-audit During the year the committee has reviewed reports from services.
Further details are set out in note 6 to the financial internal audit on the following topics: statements.
Risk management, including the Group's three lines of The committee has reviewed through discussion the defence document performance of the external auditor, including their relationship The linkages between the internal audit programme and with the Group, the Groups use of the auditor for non-audit identified risks services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid to Governance over the fit 4 the Future programme the auditors.
Non-audit services are generally subject to tender Returns management processes and the allocations of work are done on the basis of Credit marketing competence, cost effectiveness, regulatory requirements, the Pricing and margins potential for conflicts to arise and knowledge of the Groups FCA compliance business.
KPMG LLP has, during the year provided non-audit Stock and retail audit outputs services in the form of pensions advisory work and regulatory Financial crime, including whistleblowing, money laundering, compliance.
KPMG LLP was retained in relation to these fraud and bribery and corruption services prior to its appointment as the Groups auditor.
It was considered appropriate that KPMG should complete The committee also reviewed through discussion the its work in relation to these matters.
The committee is performance of internal audit.
satisfied that, in relation to these services, KPMG LLP has taken actions to ensure that any potential conflicts of interest The board considers that the processes undertaken by the audit are properly managed.
committee continue to be appropriately robust and effective and in compliance with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting The committee is mindful of the attitude investors now have Council.
During the year the board has not been advised by the to the auditors performing non audit services and of the new audit committee of, nor identified itself, any failings, frauds or guidance in this are which is operative for accounting periods weaknesses in internal control which it has determined to be starting on or after 16 June 2016.
Going forward, the material in the context of the financial statements.
committee will ensure that fees for non audit services performed by the auditors will not exceed 70% of aggregate audit fees measured over a three year period.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61
