DIRECTORS REPORT Activities and results Results, dividends and reserves a holding nor on the transfer of shares The directors have pleasure in presenting The financial statements set out the which are both governed by the general their annual report and audited financial Groups results for the year ended provisions of the Company's Articles of statements for the year ended 27 27 February 2016 and are contained Association and prevailing legislation February 2016.
Some of the information in pages 84 to 111. except as set out below in the section required to be part of the Directors' entitled Voting Rights and Restrictions Report can be found elsewhere in this An interim dividend of 5.67p per share on Transfers.
No person has any special document as detailed in the following 2015, 5.67p was paid on the ordinary rights over the Groups share capital and paragraphs and is incorporated into shares of the Group on 8 January 2016. all issued shares are fully paid.
The net cost of this dividend was 16.0m 2015, 16.0m.
Details of outstanding employee share Management Report options and the operation of the relevant This Directors' Report, together with The directors recommend a final schemes are shown in note 29 on page 108. the Strategic Report set out on pages dividend of 8.56p per share 2015, 8.56p 1 to 40, form the Management Report for the 52 weeks ended 27 February The directors have no current plans to for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
2016, the net cost of which will be issue shares other than in connection 24.2m 2015, 24.2m.
The dividend with employee share options.
Strategic Report will be paid on 29 July 2016.
The Strategic Report sets out a review of 2016 annual general meeting the business of the Group during the 52 Movements in reserves are shown in The annual general meeting will be held weeks ended 27 February 2016 and the the Statement of Changes in Equity on at 12:30 pm on Tuesday, 12 July 2016. position of the Group at the end of that page 87.
The notice convening the annual general period to enable shareholders to assess meeting will be sent to members by way how the directors have performed their Composition of the Group of separate circular.
Explanatory notes duty under section 172 of the Companies During the year there were no corporate on each resolution to be proposed at Act.
The review also describes the acquisitions or disposals.
the meeting will accompany the circular.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and provides a fair review of Share capital Directors the Groups business at the end of the Details of the Groups issued share The biographies of the current directors, financial year.
capital are shown in note 24 on page 106. are shown on pages 50 and 51.
With regard to the appointment and Risk management The Group has one class of ordinary replacement of directors, the company The board oversees the development of shares which carry no fixed income.
is governed by its Articles of Association, processes to manage risks appropriately.
Each share carries the right to one vote the Code and the Companies Act.
The executive directors and operating at general meetings of the Group.
board directors implement and oversee The ordinary shares are listed on the At the 2016 annual general meeting all risk management processes and report Official List and are traded on the of the directors will retire and will offer to the board on them.
The board also London Stock Exchange.
There are themselves for re-election.
identifies and reviews key business risks.
no specific restrictions on the size of Further detail can be found on pages 28 to 31.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Corporate The directors who served throughout the year in review were as follows: Governance Code 2014 the Code, Andrew Higginson Non-executive Chairman pages 16 to 27 provide an explanation of the basis on which the Group Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE Non-executive Director generates value and preserves it over Angela Spindler Chief Executive Officer the long-term its business model and Craig Lovelace Chief Financial Officer its strategy for delivering its objectives.
appointed 11 May 2015 Dean Moore Finance Director resigned 30 April 2015 Ivan Fallon Non-executive Director Fiona Laird Non-executive Director Simon Patterson Non-executive Director resigned 1 April 2016 Ron McMillan Non-executive Director Lesley Jones Non-executive Director N Brown Group plc 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Craig Lovelace joined the Group as Chief Major shareholders Financial Officer on 11 May 2015.
In addition to the directors shareholdings shown in the Remuneration Report on page 78 and in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Details of directors interests beneficial following notifications had been received from holders of notifiable interests in the and non-beneficial in shares of the Groups issued share capital at 30 April 2016: Group are given in the Remuneration % of issues Report on page 78 and are deemed Shareholder Holding share capital to be incorporated into this report by INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 33,867,567 11.95 cross-reference.
Nigel Alliance OBE 31,489,256 11.11 Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester The powers of the directors are Pension Fund 12,199,970 4.30 described in the board terms of reference and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 56 to 58.
The terms of reference for the board and its committees are available on the Governance Change of control Groups website www.
The board is committed to maintaining There are a number of agreements that high standards of corporate governance.
take effect, alter or terminate upon a Other than a contract of service, no Further details are contained in the change of control of the company other director had any interest in any Corporate Governance Statement on such as commercial contracts, bank disclosable contract or arrangements pages 56 to 58. loan agreements, property lease with the Group or any subsidiary arrangements and employee share plans.
company either during or at the end Corporate social responsibility and None of these are considered to be of the year.
greenhouse gas emissions significant in terms of their likely impact Details on corporate social responsibility on the business of the Group as a whole.
Directors and officers liabilities and greenhouse gas emissions are set Executive directors service contracts The companys Articles of Association out on pages 40 to 47. are terminable by the Group on provide that, in so far as the law permits, giving 12 months notice.
There are no every director of the Group or Charitable and political donations agreements between the Group and its associated company may be indemnified During the year, the Group made directors or employees that provide for by the company against liability.
In charitable donations of 13,315 2015, additional compensation for loss accordance with section 236 of the 40,818.
No political donations have of office or employment that occurs Companies Act, qualifying third party been made 2015, nil.
No contributions because of a takeover bid.
No relevant indemnity provisions are in place for the have been made to non-EU political events were reported in the year.
directors in respect of liabilities incurred parties 2015, nil.
as a result of their office, to the extent Significant contracts permitted by law.
In addition, the Group Auto-enrolment and The Group has a number of contractual maintains insurance for directors and Stakeholder pension arrangements with suppliers both officers of the Group, indemnifying them Until 31st October 2015, The People of goods and services and occupies against certain liabilities incurred by them Pension was the auto-enrolment leasehold premises for the purpose whilst acting on behalf of the Group.
provider for weekly paid employees, of conducting its business.
Whilst Both the insurance and indemnities whilst Prudential auto-enrolled monthly these arrangements are important to applied throughout the financial year paid employees and ran the Stakeholder the business of the Group, individually ended 27 February 2016 and through Pension for weekly employees already none of them are essential to the to the date of this report.
With effect from business of the Group and do not 1 November 2015, Zurich has been require disclosure under section 417 5 appointed as provider for all qualifying c of the Companies Act.
As at 31 May 2016 86.9% of all employees were members of a qualifying Tax status pension scheme with 1,216 employees The company is not a close company being auto-enrolled as at the date of within the meaning of the Corporation this report.
At the date of this report Tax Act 2010. the opt out rate is 4.3%.
Independent auditor Financial risk management, The Groups independent auditors, objectives and policies KPMG LLP KPMG, have indicated The Group is exposed to certain their willingness to continue in office and financial risks, namely interest rate risk, the Audit Committee has recommended currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
that KPMG remain in office.
A resolution Information regarding such financial risks to re-appoint the independent auditors is detailed in note 21 on page 103. will be proposed at the AGM.
The Groups risk management policies and procedures and the table of principal The auditors fees for both audit and risks and mitigations can be found on non-audit work are given in the Audit pages 28 to 31.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 53 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Voting rights and restrictions on Directors were also given the power to Going concern transfer of shares issue new issue shares up to a further The directors have adopted the going None of the ordinary shares in the nominal amount of 10,442,189 in concern basis in the financial statements Group carry any special rights with connection with an offer by way of a and their opinion is explained on pages regard to control of the Group.
This authority too will expire 92 and 93. are no restrictions on transfers of on the earlier of the conclusion of the shares other than: 2016 annual general meeting or 14 July Viability statement 2016, and a resolution will be proposed In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the certain restrictions which may from at the 2016 annual general meeting to 2014 revision of the Code, the Directors time to time be imposed by laws or renew it.
have assessed the longer term viability of regulations such as those relating the Group and can confirm that they have to insider dealing: Approval was also given at the 2015 a reasonable expectation that the Group pursuant to the company's code for annual general meeting for a certain will continue to operate and meet its securities transactions whereby the number of shares up to a maximum liabilities as they fall due for the three directors and designated employees nominal value of 1,566,328 to be year period from approval of this Annual require approval to deal in the allotted pursuant to the authority Report.
The Group uses a three year company's shares: and granted to directors set out above timescale to forecast its strategic plan where a person with an interest in without being covered by statutory on a rolling basis, as it is felt that a longer the companys shares has been pre-emption rights regime.
As with the period would not produce a reliable served with a disclosure notice and previously mentioned approvals, this result given the current pace of has failed to provide the company authority too will expire on the earlier of development both within the Group with information concerning interests the conclusion of the 2016 annual general and the wider retail sector in which it in those shares.
meeting or 14 July 2016, and a resolution operates.
The Directors assessment will be proposed at the 2016 annual has been made with reference to the The directors are not aware of any general meeting to renew this authority.
Groups current position and prospects, arrangements between shareholders the Groups strategy, the Boards risk that may result in restrictions on the As in previous years, authorisation for appetite and the Groups principal risks transfer of securities or voting rights.
the directors to buy back the companys and how these are managed, as detailed The rights and obligations attaching shares will not be sought at the 2016 in the Corporate Governance Report.
to the company's ordinary shares are annual general meeting.
set out in the Articles of Association.
The strategy and associated principal Employee share schemes risks underpin the Groups three year plan Amendment of the companys Articles rights of control and scenario testing, which the Directors of Association The trustees of the N Brown Group plc review at least annually.
The three year The companys Articles of Association Employee Share Ownership Trust hold plan makes certain assumptions about may only be amended by a special shares on trust for the benefit of the our core product and financial services resolution at a general meeting of executive directors and employees of growth drivers, margins and operating shareholders.
Where class rights are the Group.
The shares held by the trust costs, together with the Group's cash varied, such amendments must be are used in connection with the Group's flows, general liquidity and other key approved by the members of each various share incentive plans.
Although the strategic class of shares separately.
The company trustees currently abstain from voting plan reflects the directors best estimate currently only has one class of share.
but have the power to vote for or against, of the future prospects of the business, or not at all, at their discretion in respect they have also tested the potential impact Powers of the directors of any shares in the company held in on the Group of a number of scenarios The directors are responsible for the the trust.
The trustees may, upon the over and above those included in the management of the business of the recommendation of the company, accept plan, by quantifying their financial impact company and may exercise all powers or reject any offer relating to the shares and overlaying this on the detailed of the company subject to applicable in any way they see fit, without incurring financial forecasts in the plan.
The plan legislation and regulation and the any liability and without being required has been subjected to severe but companys articles of association.
to give reasons for their decision.
In plausible stress tests using four primary exercising their trustee powers the downside scenarios which have been At the 2015 annual general meeting, the trustees may take all of the following derived as part of the Boards review directors were given the power to issue matters into account: of the Groups principal risks detailed new shares up to a nominal amount of in the Corporate Governance Report.
This power will expire on the long-term interests of beneficiaries: They represent severe but plausible the earlier of the conclusion of the the interests of beneficiaries other than circumstances that the Group could 2016 annual general meeting or 14 July financial interests: experience.
The stress tests apply a range 2016.
Accordingly, a resolution will be the interests of beneficiaries in their of sensitivities to our headline interest proposed at the 2016 annual general capacity as employees or former rate, bad debt levels, Group revenue meeting to renew the Companys employees or their dependants: sensitivities and current tax positions: authority to issue new shares.
the interests of persons whether reflecting the principal risks of the or not identified who may become business, primarily through a reduction beneficiaries in the future: and in the credit activities of the Group, considerations of a local, moral, a negative potential customer impact ethical, environmental or social nature.
arising from increased LIBOR rates, N Brown Group plc 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance potential trading restrictions dealing with In preparing each of the Group and Responsibility statement the impact of a cyber-attack and negative parent company financial statements, We confirm that to the best of our outcomes from a number of tax positions the directors are required to: knowledge: we are currently defending.
select suitable accounting policies the financial statements, prepared in The three year plan review is solidly and then apply them consistently: accordance with the relevant financial underpinned by the regular Board make judgements and estimates reporting framework, give a true and briefings provided by the Groups that are reasonable and prudent: fair view of the assets, liabilities, operating board and the discussion of for the Group financial statements, financial position and profit or loss any new strategies undertaken by the state whether they have been of the company and the undertakings Board in its normal course of business.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs included in the consolidation taken These reviews consider both the market as adopted by the EU: as a whole: and opportunity and the associated risks, for the parent company financial the Strategic Report and Directors principally the ability to operationally statements, state whether applicable Report, taken together, include a deliver any new initiatives, to manage UK Accounting Standards have been fair review of the development and its working capital performance and the followed, subject to any material performance of the business and level of financial resources available to departures disclosed and explained the position of the company and the Group.
Implausible scenarios, such in the parent company financial the undertakings included in the as multiple circumstances occurring at statements: and consolidation taken as a whole, the same time are assumed to not occur.
prepare the financial statements on together with a description of the The Directors do not consider it plausible the going concern basis unless it is principal risks and uncertainties that that any of the key risks would crystallise inappropriate to presume that the they face: and together in a way that would create Group and the parent company will the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is a worst outcome over the three year continue in business.
fair, balanced and understandable and assessment period.
In the unlikely event provides the information necessary for of multiple risks occurring and having a The directors are responsible for keeping shareholders to assess the companys particularly severe effect on the Group, adequate accounting records that are position and performance, business all potential actions such as constraining sufficient to show and explain the parent model and strategy.
capital spending and reducing payments companys transactions and disclose to shareholders would be taken on a with reasonable accuracy at any time the By order of the board timely basis.
Thus, the Directors believe financial position of the parent company it has the early warning mechanisms to and enable them to ensure that its identify the need for such actions and the financial statements comply with the ability to implement them on a timely Companies Act 2006.
They have general Angela Spindler basis if necessary.
responsibility for taking such steps as are Chief Executive reasonably open to them to safeguard 2 June 2016 Statement of Directors responsibilities the assets of the Group and to prevent in respect of the Annual Report and and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for Under applicable law and regulations, preparing the Annual Report and the the directors are also responsible for Group and parent company financial preparing a Strategic Report, Directors statements in accordance with Report, Directors Remuneration Report applicable law and regulations.
and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those Company law requires the directors to regulations.
prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial The directors are responsible for year.
Under that law they are required to the maintenance and integrity of the prepare the Group financial statements corporate and financial information in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by included on the companys website.
the EU and applicable law and have Legislation in the UK governing the elected to prepare the parent company preparation and dissemination of financial statements in accordance with financial statements may differ from UK Accounting Standards, including FRS legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Theresa Casey LL.
B Hons Solicitor of the Group and parent company and Company Secretary of their profit or loss for that period.
2 June 2016 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55
