BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANGELA SPINDLER 53 ANDREW HIGGINSON 58 Chief Executive Independent Non-executive Chairman Relevant skills, qualifications Relevant skills, qualifications and experience Meetings attended and experience Meetings attended 9 9 Angela was appointed Chief 9 9 Andrew was appointed a director Executive Officer in July 2013 and in July 2012 and became Chairman Committee membership has over 30 years of retail experience, Committee membership in September 2012.
Andrew spent including roles at Coca Cola, Mars Inc, 22 years in executive retail roles, None Nomination & Governance Asda, Debenhams and the Original including positions with Laura committee member Factory Shop.
Angela studied at Ashley Holdings, The Burton Group Manchester University.
Andrew is currently the Chairman of Wm Morrison Angela was a non-executive director Supermarkets PLC and a nonof Manchester Airport Group until executive director of Woolworths 31 March 2016 and is currently a nonHoldings Limited South Africa executive director of DIA, which is and McCurrach UK Limited.
listed on the Madrid stock exchange.
CRAIG LOVELACE 42 LORD ALLIANCE OF Group Chief Financial Officer MANCHESTER CBE 83 Non-executive Director Relevant skills, qualifications Relevant skills, qualifications and experience Meetings attended and experience Meetings attended 8 9 Appointed in May 2015.
Formerly 8 9 Appointed a director and Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer for in 1968.
Stood down as Chairman on Committee membership General Healthcare Group Ltd since Committee membership 1 September 2012.
Co-founder and 2011 and prior to this, held a number former Chairman of Coats Viyella None None of senior UK and International Plc.
He is also a director of a number finance roles at Regus Plc, Electronic of private companies, and was Arts Inc and PwC.
Craig is a fellow appointed a life peer in 2004.
Alliance holds honorary doctorates from Heriot-Watt University and the Unviersity of Manchester.
IVAN FALLON 71 Non-executive Director Relevant skills, qualifications and experience Meetings attended Appointed a director in 1994.
Ivan 9 9 was Chief Executive of Independent News & Media UK until March 2010 Committee membership and a leading financial journalist.
None N Brown Group plc 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance RON MCMILLAN 63 FIONA LAIRD 55 Independent Senior Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Relevant skills, qualifications Relevant skills, qualifications and experience Meetings attended and experience Meetings attended Appointed a Director on 1 April 9 9 Appointed a director on 1 April 9 9 2013.
Senior Vice President of Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee membership Human Resources at Unilever plc.
He is also Chairman She has served in numerous human Audit committee member Audit committee member of the Audit Committee of B&M resources, compensation & benefits, Remuneration committee member Remuneration committee member Value Retail SA, 888 Holdings labour relations, communications Nomination & Governance Nomination & Governance Plc and SCS PLC.
Previously, he and change management roles committee member committee member was the Deputy Chairman of globally for Unilever since joining CSR committee member  in the the Group in 1991.
Middle East and Northern Regional Chairman of the UK firm.
SIMON PATTERSON 43 LESLEY JONES 61 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director resigned April 1 2016 Relevant skills, qualifications Relevant skills, qualifications and experience Meetings attended and experience Meetings attended Appointed a director on 1 April 8 9 Retired from executive life in January 9 9 2013.
Managing Director at Silver 2014 after 30 years in relationship Lake, a leading investment firm Committee membership and risk management at Citigroup Committee membership focused on the global technology and latterly as Chief Credit Officer Audit committee member Audit committee member industry.
He is currently a board for RBS Group Plc from 2008 Remuneration committee member Nomination & Governance member of Dell and Intelsat, through January 2014.
Appointed Nomination & Governance committee member and a Trustee of the Natural as Non-Executive Director and committee member History Museum.
Board Risk Committee Chair at Close Brothers in December 2013 and a Non-Executive Director of N Brown Group Plc in October 2014.
THERESA CASEY 47 Company Secretary Relevant skills, qualifications and experience Meetings attended Joined the Group in January 2015.
9 9 Admitted as a solicitor in 1997, Theresa has held a number of legal Committee membership and company secretarial roles in the N A financial services and retail sectors, including the Co-operative Bank, Shop Direct and Brown Shipley Private Bank.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 51
