115 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information The chart below shows how the Board allocated its time.
A number Conflicted Matters Committee CMC of these areas are also considered by the Board committees.
The CMC is chaired by the Company Secretary.
It is responsible for assessing whether and to what extent Board meetings and Board papers are likely to consider or refer to a conflict Allocation of time of interest between the Company and DT or their respective 1% 34% Other Business & affiliates.
The committee considers both actual and potential CEO updates 5% conflicts of interest: these include matters in which BT and DT People, health & safety or their respective affiliates are considered competitors.
The 18% CMC assists the non-independent, non-executive director Governance, risk & audit in complying with his fiduciary duties although ultimate responsibility rests with him, supports good governance and protects the groups competitively sensitive information.
Where a conflict arises the non-independent, non-executive director will not be given access to documents or information made available to the Board in relation to such a matter and shall absent himself from any related Board discussion.
19% 23% Finance & investor relations Strategy Integration Committee The Board has a forward programme of business to ensure that it The Integration Committee will oversee and monitor the allocates sufficient time to key areas and that the programme is flexible integration of the mobile business of EE, including to receive enough for items to be added to any particular agenda as necessary.
assurance that: revenue and cost synergy targets are being met: The Boards annual programme included: integration activities are consistent with preserving EE's tax losses: Chief Executives reports Succession planning a new fit for future organisation and operating model is being Financial reports Board evaluation built at pace: Strategy Regulation Line of business updates Governance and compliance plans are in place as part of integration to improve customer Risk management Approach to tax experience: and Dividend policy Annual Report & Form 20-F cultural integration is on track.
Investor relations Group communications overview The Chief Executive chairs the committee and Tony Ball, Tony Health, safety and well-being Customer service Chanmugam and Nick Rose are members.
Thomas Dannenfeldt of DT is also a member.
During 2015 16, we also had in-depth discussions on the acquisition and integration of EE, BT TV and BT Sport.
We reviewed our Board committee structure and approved changes We visited BTs Research & Development headquarters at Adastral tosome committees terms of reference.
Park to review the areas of innovation of strategic importance to the company.
EE The Board has particularly focused on the acquisition of EE and continued to play an active role in reviewing the synergies of the acquisition and the financial elements underpinning the deal, as well as the integration of EE into the group.
Under the Relationship Agreement entered into by the company and Deutsche Telekom DT we were required to establish a Conflicted Matters Committee and an Integration Committee.
Find out more: 112 You can see our Board members on page 112
