Nomination Committee report The Committee and its membership The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Groups website, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Committee meetings Only members of the Nomination Committee have the right to attend 52 the current and future needs of the meetings, however the CEO and other Dear Shareholder, Group, taking into account changes Governance directors may attend meetings by I am pleased to present to you the in the Groups business and strategy invitation as may employees or external report of the Nomination Committee and the environment in which the advisors when appropriate and for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Company Secretary, Our key objective is to ensure that Paul Mussenden, serves as secretary We will continue to monitor Board the Board has the appropriate mix to the Committee.
and Committee composition regularly of skills, experience, knowledge and and progress our succession expertise to lead the Group, we also The key responsibilities of the Committee: planning programme in light of help develop and ensure the delivery Keep under review the structure, our evolving needs.
of the Groups strategy and seek to size and composition of the Board meet our other commitments such as looking at its balance of skills, the creation of long-term shareholder Garry Watts experience, independence and value and to effectively manage risk.
Chairman of the Nomination knowledge as well as its diversity We regularly review the structure of Committee including gender diversity and make the Board and its Committees against recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes.
Identify, via a rigorous and transparent Committee members Date of appointment to the Committee procedure, and nominate, for the Garry Watts Committee Chairman 1 January 2012 Boards approval, suitable candidates Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 to fill any vacancies for non-executive Ian Much 1 January 2012 directors and, with the assistance of James OShea 13 May 2009 the CEO, executive directors.
Plan for the orderly succession of There were four Committee meetings during the year.
Details of attendance can be directors to the Board.
Recommend to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Time spent by the Committee Appointment process Succession planning duringthe year When considering Board appointments, The development of talent below the Committee considers what areas of Board level is also seen as extremely expertise the Board most benefits from important and an area of focus for the and accordingly draws up a full Board.
BTG continues to build an description of the role, desired skills internal leadership pipeline for senior and capabilities.
It also considers the roles and the Head of HR updates the future needs of the Group.
Diversity, Board regularly on progress.
In addition including gender diversity, plays an to traditional Management important part in the process.
The Development Programmes, the Group Group appoints external consultants has expanded the learning and to support the process, ensuring development opportunities for leaders appropriate experience of recruiting of people across the business to give for such roles.
them learning opportunities closely related to the leadership challenges A rigorous interview and selection Composition and balance 33% they face on a regular basis.
By focusing process is carried out by the Committee Governance effectiveness 11% on creating a pool of talented leaders on behalf of the Board and shortlisted Succession planning and 56% we are increasing the probability of candidates will also be interviewed by re-appointment of directors retaining them through meaningful the other non-executive directors and development and career opportunity the CEO.
Taking into account their views and building the internal capability and the Boards requirements, the Activities needed to become a FTSE 100 Committee will make a organisation.
The principal activities during the year recommendation to the Board.
related to: The Committee also reviews succession 53 To ensure a full understanding of BTG plans and provisions for emergency The reappointment of non-executive is developed, newly appointed directors Governance cover of key managers.
directors Giles Kerr, Richard Wohanka will undergo a comprehensive induction and James OShea.
As part of this process were each reappointed for a further 12 each new director is given a full briefing Diversity months, subject to being re-elected at on the financial and operating history The benefits of diversity across all the Annual General Meeting, as they of the Group and details of its strategy, areas of the Group are recognised by each had served on the Board for more risk management and governance the Board which currently comprises than six years.
It is the expectation processes, operating plans, budgets 75% men and 25% women.
However it that any non-executive director and forecasts for future years.
is of the utmost importance that the reappointment beyond six years would Arrangements are also made for Board continues to provide strong be made on an annual basis.
them to meet with senior executives leadership and, therefore, will continue at both a group and business segment We have commenced a search to seek to appoint only the most appropriate level and additional bespoke training to appoint a new non-executive candidates.
may be undertaken based on individual director to the Board who would also The policy on diversity applies across needs.
A act as chair of the Audit Committee, all levels of the Group and further review is undertaken of the content of given that this coming year Giles Kerr details can be found in the People and recent Board and Committee will have served in that role for 9 years.
practices section on pages 19 to 21. discussions including a range of Board Discussing succession planning reports, minutes and historical actions.
for the Groups Leadership team, Committee evaluation A briefing on corporate governance and including the CEO and CFO and As part of the internal annual Board directors responsibilities will be given the Groups senior managers in evaluation process, a review of the and the opportunity to attend external key positions.
Committee was carried out and it was courses is also available, as it is for Review of Board capability in the found to be functioning effectively, with all directors.
context of the annual strategy clear and well-focused processes.
ongoing need to continue to focus on Considering the expertise and the assessment of the future capabilities as well as the capacity composition of the Board and its required of the Groups management capabilities in light of the longer-term team and wider employee group strategic plans of the Group was having regard to the Groups strategy emphasised.
This will be reflected in the and changing needs.
As in previous future work of the Committee, which years this is an area of focus as the will also include a further review of business continues to grow and it is contingency and succession plans for considered in the context of both key people.
Progress to address perceived Garry Watts capability gaps is regularly reviewed.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
