Audit Committee report 11 European countries and continued A review of BTGs internal controls the steady expansion into Asia with and processes was conducted by EY.
the interventional oncology products In addition, an internal evaluation DC Bead and TheraSphere.
Sales was undertaken of the external were also enhanced by the addition of auditors KPMG and the internal a number of distributors in other EU, audit function outsourced to PwC.
Asian and Latin American territories.
The results are described on pages Consequently the Committee also 50 and 51 respectively.
sought to enhance the distributor The Board, after taking advice from due diligence, selection, compliance, the Audit Committee, confirmed that 48 training, monitoring and audit Dear Shareholder, the annual report and accounts, Governance programmes, particularly those As Chairman of the Audit Committee, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced relating to anti-bribery and I am pleased to present our report and understandable and provides anti-corruption.
for the year ended 31 March 2016. the information necessary for This report details the work of the The Committee has continued the shareholders to assess the Groups Committee over the past year, fulfilling work commenced last year to position and performance, business our responsibilities to provide implement the changes made by model and strategy.
effective governance over the Groups the 2014 edition of the Corporate The following report sets out the financial activities.
Our role is to assist Governance Code the Code activities of the Committee over the the Board in carrying out its oversight which apply to the Group for the past year and how it has discharged responsibilities in relation to financial first time this year.
reporting, internal controls and risk have strengthened the role of the management, as well as maintaining Committee.
Throughout the year there Giles Kerr an appropriate relationship with the remained a focus on the approach to Chairman of the Audit Committee external auditor.
risk management across the Group, driving the process more fully into the In order to do this, the Committee day to day operations of the business reviews and, where necessary, seeks units, and also focusing on risks to enhance the integrity of the Groups external to BTG, in the general internal controls, its financial healthcare industry and at a more reporting and the way the risks are macro-economic level.
Further assessed, managed and reported.
The consideration was given to potential Committee also oversees compliance emergent risks and the integration of as well as the performance of both the the risk review process in the internal and external audit functions.
The Committee devotes a significant The Code has also introduced the part of its time to these areas.
The requirement for companies to produce highly regulated environment in which a Viability Statement to provide the Group operates enhances the shareholders with an improved need to ensure our processes remain understanding of the Boards view on fit for purpose, particularly in light of the longer-term viability of the Group.
the growth in size, complexity and The process undertaken and the international reach of the Group.
Statement can be found on page 29 of During the year the Group began direct the Strategic Report.
sales of DC Bead and Bead Block in Committee members Date of appointment to the Committee Giles Kerr Committee Chairman 6 November 2007 Ian Much 1 November 2010 Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 There were four Committee meetings during the year, at key times in the Groups financial reporting and audit calendar.
Details of attendance can be found on page 41.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Committee composition Activities The Committee, established by the A summary of how the Committee discharged its responsibilities during the year is Board, is responsible for monitoring shown below: all aspects of financial reporting and management of risk.
The Committees Area of review Activities undertaken full terms of reference are available Financial reporting Review of the Groups half-year and full-year results on the Groups website, or from the Consideration of whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced Company Secretary on request.
and understandable Review of external auditor reports on the half-year and full-year results A review of the Committee was carried Consideration of significant accounting issues as detailed on the out during the year.
The Board is following page satisfied that the current members Review of prospective changes in accounting standards and their potential impact have the range and depth of financial Review of trading updates issued by the Group knowledge and experience necessary Assessment of the going concern basis of preparation for the financial to effectively fulfil their responsibilities.
statements and considering whether there were any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to adopt this basis over a period of at least The Code requires that the Committee twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements has at least one member with recent Review of the work underpinning the Viability Statement and relevant financial experience, and Advise the Board on the Viability Statement the Board is satisfied that Giles Kerr Review of the Group's taxation External auditor Review of External Auditor, including independence meets these requirements, being a Review of the scope, nature and resource planning for half-year review and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered full-year audit Accountants and Director of Finance at Approval of external auditor fees Oxford University.
As Chairman, Giles Review and approval where required of use of Auditors for non-audit work Risk management Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud, receives additional remuneration to and internal control anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures compensate him for his additional 49 Review of compliance systems and policies responsibilities, as set out on page 75.
Governance Review by external auditors of internal controls and processes He is supported by the other members Review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy and any allegations arising from it who bring substantial experience in Review of the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing international business areas, as well as Review of the Groups tax affairs financial expertise to the deliberations EY review of internal controls of the Committee, enabling it to work Review of internal investigations including the investigation commenced by the US Department of Justice in June 2014 with respect to LC Bead and effectively and to challenge management.
Internal Investigations Policy More information is given in the directors Internal audit Review of the Internal Auditors work plan biographies on pages 34 and 35. Review of Internal Audit reports produced throughout the year Review of structure and resources of the Internal Audit group In light of the fact that Giles Kerr will have Review of the performance of PwC who lead the internal audit function served as a non-executive director of the Committee governance Review of Committee terms of reference Group and Chair of the Committee for Completion of effectiveness review 9 years in September, the decision has been taken to recruit another nonexecutive director to fulfil that role.
The Financial reporting Time spent by the Committee selection process has begun as outlined duringthe year The detailed monitoring of the integrity on page 53.
It is anticipated that the new of the annual and half-year results is a appointee will work closely with Giles to key role of the Committee and includes ensure an effective transition.
a review of the significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, Committee meetings with the aim of ensuring that they Only members of the Audit Committee present a fair and balanced view of the are entitled to attend meetings, Group and comply fully with the relevant however the CEO, CFO, Group Financial statutes and accounting standards.
Controller, Internal Auditor and Where requested by the Board, the Corporate Risk and Compliance Officer Committee will advise on whether, are normally invited to attend meetings.
taken as a whole, the Annual Report The external auditor always attends and Accounts is fair, balanced and Committee meetings.
As part of this review Secretary, Paul Mussenden serves as Financial reporting 20% it discusses the audit findings and secretary to the Committee.
External audit 18% Auditors Report with management and inc. non-audit services At least once a year, immediately the External Auditor and considers following a Committee meeting, a Risk management and compliance 26% significant judgments and issues inc. whistle-blowing meeting is held separately with the contained in them as set out on the Internal audit 16% external and internal auditors to give following page.
Following this Governance policy other 11% them the opportunity to discuss matters discussion the Chairman of the without management being present.
Tax 9% Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board.
The External Auditor meets with the non-executive directors in the absence of management at least twice a year, when the halfand full-year results are discussed.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee report continued adversely impact auditor independence Significant accounting matters Review of external or objectivity.
The Committee is mindful The Committee considered the following auditor effectiveness, of the ongoing consultations regarding key accounting issues, judgments and independence and EU Audit reform and how this will be disclosures during the course of the year: implemented into UK regulation.
appointment Carrying value of Goodwill and The Committee reviews the overall The Committee receives a written Intangibles Assets: The Committee performance of the auditor annually annual report from management received and critically reviewed a report and approves its terms of engagement summarising the fees paid to the from management setting out the and remuneration.
The Committee and auditors for non-audit work and approach to and results of impairment senior members of the finance team whether such services were pretesting in accordance with IAS 36.
The evaluated the external auditor approved or specifically approved by report covered all asset classes, with 50 performance using a detailed the Committee.
Details of the amounts a particular focus on goodwill and Governance questionnaire which included questions paid to the external auditor for nonintangible assets as further disclosed in related to the audit team, the approach, audit services are set out below.
note 12 and the valuation methodology communication, audit quality, including discount rates, assumed Audit governance, independence and growth rates and sensitivity analysis Committee Fees interaction with internal audit and approval 000 for these asset classes.
The performance of the US tax compliance services 370 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and external auditor was deemed Other compliance related services 54 Liabilities: The Committee reviewed the satisfactory.
There is good senior level appropriateness of deferred tax asset Total fees paid to the Groups auditor, understanding of the business and its recognition and the movements on KPMG, are shown in note 6 on page 99. complexities which permits the auditor deferred tax assets and liabilities The Committee believes that the use to exercise good judgment while during the year.
This included the of KPMG was appropriate and efficient maintaining an efficient process.
movements arising from the Groups in the circumstances and that The Committee has discussed with the past acquisitions and the assumptions independence was preserved.
auditor the need to maintain a high level made in setting up the deferred tax of robust challenge to ensure a high Each year, the Committee considers the liability on acquired intangibles.
reappointment of the external auditor and acquisition took place this year.
makes a recommendation to the Board.
The Committee discussed and agreed Investigation and contingent liabilities: KPMG has been the Groups sole external the auditors proposed work plan prior The Committee received and critically auditor since the Group listed in 1995 and to the commencement of the audit of reviewed the progress of any relevant the audit contract has not been put out to the results for the year to 31 March 2016 items and the likelihood and ability to tender since their appointment.
The and also reviews the non-audit work estimate any potential outflows Committee reviews annually whether it is carried out by the auditor to ensure including the ongoing Department of an appropriate time to undertake an that such services do not impair its Justice investigation.
external audit tender and as part of this independence or objectivity.
The Presentation format of Consolidated process, also looks at the need for the external auditor provided a report Income Statement: The Groups rotation of the audit partner and assesses demonstrating how their independence Consolidated Income Statement on the auditors independence.
Richard and objectivity is maintained when page 83 has, for a number of years, been Broadbelt has been audit engagement providing non-audit services.
prepared using a three column format partner as from the year ended The Committee has a formal policy for for each financial year.
Following analyses of approving the use of the auditor for reviews the appropriateness of this the results of the questionnaire and non-audit work detailing areas where disclosure on an annual basis and did taking into account the complexity of the auditors may not be used, areas so once again this year.
the business, the services offered by where they may be used subject to the KPMG and their independence, as well Other matters: During the course of agreement of the Committee and areas as guidance issued by the Financial the year, the Committee received where prior approval is not required.
Reporting Council FRC, the Committee updates from management on Group Areas where prior approval is not concluded that it would not be in the corporate structure, tax strategy, the required include audit-related services Groups interests to commence a tender adoption of new accounting standards as specified in the APB Ethical process at this time.
Following this and the potential impact of future Standards for Auditors and other review, the Board recommends the accounting standards.
In particular, services, that are routine in nature, reappointment of KPMG as external the Committee discussed the where the fee is not significant in the auditor, and to authorise the directors to potential impacts of IFRS 15 Revenue context of the audit fee and where the determine the auditors remuneration.
conduct of such services will not BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Having regard to the transitional The Committee reviews the potential approved by the Committee at the start arrangements under the EU Audit impact of material litigation and other of the year and any subsequent changes reform framework and the Competition contingencies, taking into account to that plan have also been approved.
& Markets Authority CMA Order, the the assessment of internal and The internal audit plan focuses on Group still intends to consider an external legal counsel and other financial controls and compliance external audit tender, at the latest, advisers as appropriate.
The work carried nearer the time of the next audit partner The Group operates a Risk Committee out by Internal Audit did not identify rotation, currently scheduled for 2018. which is chaired by the CFO, Rolf any material weaknesses in internal The Group may however put the audit Soderstrom and comprises senior controls but included proposals to out for tender before this date.
The members of staff representing relevant enhance control procedures.
The Committee will continue to monitor the parts of the business and key functions Committee monitors managements consultations regarding how the EU as well as other members of the responses to ensure that control Regulation will be implemented in the Leadership Team.
The output from the improvements are instigated on a timely UK, and will comply with any new Risk Committee is formally reported, basis.
The internal audit function is applicable requirements.
twice annually, to the Audit Committee supported by PwC under the direction who reviews the processes followed by of the Audit Committee.
management in identifying and Risk management During the year the Committee evaluated managing risk throughout the Group.
the performance of the internal auditor and internal control This Group Risk Report is also shared using the same methodology applied Ensuring the effectiveness of the and discussed with the full Board twice to the external auditor.
In general, Groups risk management and internal annually and individual risks may be performance of the internal audit group control systems is the responsibility considered by the Board as they arise was deemed satisfactory.
Utilising PwC of the full Board.
Additional details of throughout the year.
Leading indicators permitted greater access to specialists, our approach to risk management and of material changes in principal risks are providing for strong governance advice the specific principal risks that may 51 monitored monthly by the Board via the and has resulted in a high quality of affect the business are given on pages Governance Operational and Financial Review report.
To further strengthen internal 27 to 32 in the Strategic Report.
audit in 2016 17 there will be a focus on The Committee, on behalf of the Board, Whistle-blowing increasing its connection across senior undertakes the monitoring and In line with best practice, the Group members of the business and adding an assessment of the risk management supports an independent and internal audit member to the Groups process and internal controls confidential whistle-blowing procedure Risk Committee.
effectiveness and reports to the Board and the Committee is responsible for on its findings twice-yearly.
The goal is ensuring that arrangements under Committee evaluation to ensure the Company is able to which employees may raise concerns identify, assess and effectively manage The review of the Committee and about possible improprieties in matters or mitigate existing and newly emerging its effectiveness was internally of financial performance or other risks.
The Committees review focuses facilitated this year.
The results and matters are operating effectively and on financial, operational, anti-bribery, recommendations for improvement that appropriate follow-up action takes regulatory and healthcare law were reported to the Board.
Included within the Employee compliance risks and controls for the Committee was found to be functioning Code of Conduct and various employee year under review and up to the date of well, with an effective reporting trainings are details of the Groups this Annual Report and Accounts.
This relationship with the Board and whistle-blowing policy.
year the Committee included additional providing a good balance between measures to consider the key risks in-depth assessment, diagnosis and Anti-bribery and which could impact the business model analysis and a clear practical approach.
anti-corruption policy and strategy over the longer term.
In summary the evaluation supported: The Group has continued to operate its The Committee discharges these duties the continued enhancement and anti-bribery and anti-corruption ABAC using a combination of reports from development of the Finance Function, policy introduced in 2010 in response to management, Internal Audit and the including the addition of new key the UK Bribery Act 2010.
This has external auditor reviews.
A risk capabilities and a review of finance included the conduct of due diligence management reporting structure has systems: on existing and new key business been in place throughout the year and a more detailed review of the partners who may act on behalf of the up to the date of approval of the performance of the auditors as well Group in higher risk areas of business.
financial statements and is regularly as the internal auditors already Further enhancements were completed reviewed by the directors in accordance completed as described above : and during the year, which included the with the Code.
During the year, a implementation of a more rigorous third continued bedding down of the thorough review of the risk party questionnaire for higher risk areas, improvements made over the year management reporting structure took the use of interactive technology to to the risk management process, place which included a deep dive on standardise how the Group collects and and continuation of the horizon cyber-security and a top down risk analyses third party data, and further scanning externally focused emergent review and assessment of global macro integration of this information into risk reviews.
The overall risk assessment business segment analysis to aid a more structure is designed to manage selective application of audit rights.
Giles Kerr appropriately rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Chairman of the Audit Committee Internal audit objectives, and can only provide The Committee monitored and reviewed reasonable and not absolute assurance the work of Internal Audit throughout the against material misstatement or loss.
The annual internal audit plan was BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
