Corporate Governance report We apply clear governance standards Dear Shareholder, and establish processes to provide BTGs success is fundamentally assurance they are operated in linked to good governance.
We remain practice both within our own business committed to achieving high standards and that of the partners we in all we do and aligning our business collaborate with.
and processes around a robust Regular Board meetings concentrate governance framework.
The Board on strategic progress and forward retains ultimate accountability for planning as well as operational issues, governance and we continue to evolve resulting in well informed debate and our approach and make ongoing 36 decision making.
In addition, the improvements as part of building a Governance annual Strategy Day is an essential successful and sustainable company.
part of the Board calendar.
In setting While building a strong governance BTGs success is the Boards agenda we ensure framework we also try to ensure that fundamentally linked adequate time is given to discussions we take a proportionate approach around the development and to good governance and and that our processes remain fit for implementation of strategy, having purpose as well as embedded within we remain committed regard to our assessment of risk and the culture of our organisation.
As the changes in the external environment.
to high standards in Group grows, the principles of good This process, together with our overall governance give us the infrastructure all we do.
risk management framework, was to achieve our strategic goals.
embodied in our work to support the The standards of behaviour we require provision of our Viability Statement as from our employees are guided by our required by the 2014 edition of the UK Code of Conduct.
This is further Corporate Governance Code the Code embodied in the behaviours and ways of issued by the Financial Reporting working that we call the BTG DNA Council the Viability Statement is set doing what is in the best interests of the out on page 29.
We believe the Group as a whole and striving to deliver enhanced governance and risk our values in all we do.
We believe these management processes introduced core values and ways of working have by the Group in response to the Code been instrumental in our success to provide us with an improved date and that retaining them is understanding of the principal risks essential to our future success.
It is a inherent in our business operations concept we cherish and is a focus in and strategy, how they are or can be how we hire new employees and how we mitigated and their potential impact develop our next generation of leaders.
As a Board we have sought to create As Chairman, I am responsible for an environment of openness, ensuring the Board operates transparency and behaviour that effectively.
The balance of the Board matches our core values.
This principle is regularly reviewed to ensure we has, for example, been a focus during continue to have the right skills, the establishment of our direct sales diversity and experience to contribute teams in EU: our operations in Hong in a fast-changing environment and Kong and Taiwan: and the appointment annual Board and Committee of additional distributors undertaken evaluations are carried out.
We will during the year in Asia, Latin America continue to challenge ourselves and and Europe.
the business in this regard.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Compliance with the UK Statement of Communication with shareholders Corporate Governance Compliance with the is vitally important to the Board and Code the Code provisions of the Code the CEO and CFO meet with existing In September 2014, the Financial The Board considers that the Group and potential shareholders Reporting Council FRC published has complied fully with the Code throughout the year.
Ian Much, the 2014 edition of the Code.
The Code throughout the year ended 31 March the Remuneration Committee contains broad principles and specific 2016.
The Group has not undertaken Chairman, consulted with a range provisions which set out standards of a tender of audit services but has of major shareholders and good practice in relation to leadership, considered carefully the applicable shareholder representatives with effectiveness, remuneration, regulations regarding audit firm respect to the proposed changes 37 accountability and relations with rotation and the performance and to executive director remuneration Governance shareholders.
Our Corporate independence of the current auditor which are described more fully on Governance Report is structured to KPMG LLP, and recommends their pages 54 and 55.
Communications report against these key areas and reappointment.
Further details are with shareholders are coordinated together with the Nomination provided on page 50 of the Audit during the year by the Vice President Committee Report, the Audit Committee Committee Report.
of Corporate and Investor Relations, Report and the Directors Remuneration who reports directly to the CFO, and KPMG is required to review certain Report, we describe how we have who himself held meetings with elements of the corporate governance applied the Codes main principles and numerous shareholders.
More details statement and to report if those complied with its provisions.
can be found on pages 46 and 47. disclosures do not reflect the BTGs AGM will be held on 14 July Company's compliance and the 2016 and the Board will be available Company has not instead explained to meet investors.
why it has not complied with the provisions of the Code specified for the Our Corporate Governance Report auditor's review by the Listing Rules of can be found on pages 36 to 47 and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
includes our statement of compliance with the Code and its principles on page 37.
The Directors Remuneration Report can be found on pages 54 to 75.
Garry Watts Chairman BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance report continued Our governance framework This report details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code: Leadership The Board and its Committees Audit Committee Risk Committee The Board Assists the Board on oversight of Responsible for monitoring risks Responsible for the long-term financial results, internal control throughout the organisation and success of the Company and overall 38 and management of risk and assessing the risk control and management of the business.
compliance and maintaining an mitigation measures implemented Governance Has a schedule of matters appropriate relationship with the by the Group.
reserved specifically for its external auditor.
Conducting work to support the decision or approval.
assessment of the Viability Statement Read more on page 48 Determines governance, strategy by the Board.
Remuneration Committee Determines executive director and Internal Audit senior management remuneration.
Testing of the effectiveness of the Ensures the policy supports the internal control systems.
strategy by attracting, developing Disclosure Committee and retaining people of the Responsible for appropriate calibre.
ensuring the Companys Read more on page 54 compliance with applicable transparency and disclosure obligations Nomination Committee including those related to Considers the structure, size and the management of price composition of the Board and sensitive information.
its Committees to ensure inclusion of appropriate experience, diversity and expertise.
The Leadership Team Oversees talent management and Chaired by the CEO succession planning for senior roles.
Members include the CFO Read more on page 52 and senior management from different areas of the business Portfolio Review Board and R&D Leadership Team and functions.
Ensures BTG is investing in its assets efficiently and in relation to opportunities with well-targeted Responsible for the daybusiness cases where the value to the customer and to BTG is clearly understood and articulated.
to-day running of Group Oversees the definition of activities and priorities of the R&D Leadership Team.
operations and making The R&D Leadership Team provides strategic and operational leadership of R&D activities, recommendations to harnessing our combined knowledge and resources, to deliver a balanced pipeline of innovative the Board on strategy therapies aligned with BTG business priorities.
Operational Leadership Team Ensures the capabilities Responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing and supply chain are tightly controlled and their are in place to deliver operations are optimised, as far as practicable, meeting all applicable regulatory requirements.
on strategy and annual objectives.
Global Quality Leadership Team Ensures the internal Reviews progress with overall Quality Strategy and objectives, this includes inspection controls in place to readiness, QMS effectiveness and enhancements, product delivery on time and to required manage and assess quality, safety and efficacy.
risk are fully complied Ensures continued regulatory compliance.
This includes responsibility for Performance Management Review maintaining a system to Monthly meeting of the Leadership Team and senior staff to review progress against business ensure that the Group plans and targets, both financial and operational.
is compliant with all applicable healthcare laws such as US Federal Corporate Responsibility Committee and State requirements Provides guidance and leadership in regards to social, environmental, and governance issues of that relate to the most relevance to BTG to ensure the Group maintains appropriate standards in this area.
commercial operations of the Group.
Business Unit Leadership Teams Each business segment has an established leadership team comprising commercial and functional capabilities.
They are responsible for managing the day to day operations of each specific business.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Board of Directors Effective division of responsibilities A Board and Committees meeting programme is set annually for core Chairman activities which forms the basic Garry Watts Chairman since joining the Board on 1 January 2012 structure of Board operation.
Meetings Responsible for leading the Board, creating conditions for overall Board and individual director are also held on an ad hoc basis as effectiveness, promoting constructive debate and for ensuring: needed to respond to important issues A robust decision making process is in place based on all appropriate information being provided arising during the year.
to the Board in a timely manner.
Ensure clear decisions are made, communicated and effected.
The Board gives adequate time to the right issues, such as its role in shaping strategy, managing While, as a unitary board, the executive risk and ensuring adequate organisational capabilities and capacity.
and non-executive directors are The Board environment is productive and the Board and its Committees have appropriate composition and diversity, experience and expertise with regard to the Companys needs.
collectively responsible for the success Board committees are properly structured.
of the Group and have fiduciary duties The Board discharges its responsibilities with respect to risk management and to shareholders, their roles are strictly governance generally.
The roles of the Chairman Necessary relationships of mutual respect and open communication are fostered between executive directors and non-executive directors.
Providing support and advice while respecting and Chief Executive are separate and the executive responsibility.
distinct and the division of their Effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The executive Appropriate oversight of business performance.
directors have direct responsibility for the business operations of the Group, Executive directors while the non-executive directors are Louise Makin CEO responsible for bringing independent Rolf Soderstrom CFO Louise Makin is primarily responsible for the running of the Group and for executing the Group and objective judgment to Board strategy in line with the risk appetite defined by the Board and the Company values.
decisions and the Chairmans primary Rolf Soderstrom is responsible for all financial reporting, tax and financial control aspects of the responsibility is for the effective 39 Group, providing support to Louise and the wider activities of the Group as required.
In addition running of the Board.
The non-executive they are both responsible for: Governance directors duties include helping to Communicating to the Board their views on business issues to improve the standard of Board discussion and, prior to final decision on an issue, explaining in a balanced way, any divergence of develop the Groups strategy, overseeing views in the executive team.
risk, shaping proposals on succession Providing input to the strategy formulation process to enable an effective and evidence based planning and constructively challenging approach and to ensure that the Board is well informed about all aspects of the business and its operation which bear on its strategy.
the executive directors where they Delivering high quality information to the Board to enable it to monitor the performance of the consider it appropriate.
whole business including the management of risk, and to make critical decisions.
Key matters reserved specifically The Senior Independent Director SID for the Board include: Giles Kerr Group Strategy and Management In the role since July 2008 Reviewing the overall strategic Principally to support the Chairman in his role and to work with him and other directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise.
Other responsibilities are: development of the Group and setting Supporting the Chairmans delivery of objectives, and leading his evaluation.
its objectives, direction and policies, Leading the non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman and ensuring there is a whilst ensuring the necessary clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and CEO.
financial and human resources Being available to shareholders to express concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate.
are in place to support strategy.
Determining the significant risks that the Group is willing to take Non-executive directors Bring wide-ranging skills and experience for the Board to draw on.
They provide independent to achieve its strategic aims and judgment and constructively challenge matters such as Company performance, strategy ensuring effective risk management and risk management.
Financial and Internal Controls Ensuring the integrity of its financial Board membership and Committees Setting budgets and long-term plans.
Executive remuneration and Approving major investments, appointments.
Appointment or Agreeing and overseeing the acquisitions and disposals, removal of any director or the application of an appropriate major capital expenditure and Company Secretary.
Ensuring the proper discharge of the Monitoring and reviewing Group and Corporate Governance Groups statutory and other legal, management performance and Succession planning, health, safety regulatory and ethical responsibilities.
and environmental performance and standards of ethical and social Approval of the Annual Report and Board activity during the year behaviour.
Accounts, preliminary and interim The key areas of Board activity and financial and management Developing robust corporate oversight during the year are set out statements, and major public governance, legal, compliance, quality on the next page.
and risk management procedures aimed at safeguarding the Groups reputation and assets, staff and patients and meeting its legal, regulatory and other obligations.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance report continued Board Activity during the year Strategy Business performance Annual strategy day and deep dive Oversight of the financial performance presentations from each of the of the business business units over the year Approved the 2016 17 budget and Review of the Varithena growth three-year plan strategy Reviewed the half-year and annual Go-Direct commercial launch results, announcements and analyst in Europe presentations 40 On-going assessment of Approved the Annual Report and M&A opportunities Accounts Governance On-going assessment of Established a new revolving credit R&D portfolio facility RCF Reviewed and approved material litigation and settlement of a contractual dispute The Board Governance Leadership and people Discussed the composition of the and shareholders Board and its committees, including Discussed the outcome of the Board succession planning and Committees evaluations and agreed Reviewed the enhanced leadership recommendations Internal control and risk development plans of the Group and Regularly reviewed feedback from Regular review of the risk management the specific development plans for institutional investors system: deep dives into specific senior talent in the Group, including Endorsed the Human Rights statement areas, including competition and succession planning for senior roles published on the Groups website cyber risk.
Review of principal risks, Regular review of hiring of key Updated the terms of reference potential impact and support for the capabilities to the Group deemed for the Nomination, Audit and Viability Statement.
Participation of required for the delivery of the Remuneration Committees representative Board members in future strategy the Risk Committee meetings External review of financial controls by EY Review of proposed development and restructuring plan for Finance group Review of reports from the Audit Committee including summary of Internal Audit and Compliance reports Review of progress of internal investigations and the investigation being undertaken by the Department of Justice in relation to LC Bead BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Attendance by individual directors at Board and Committee meetings since the last Annual Report Committee Nomination Audit Remuneration Board & committee composition & attendance memberships Independent Board meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings held 7 4 4 6 Number of meetings attended Executive Directors Louise Makin CEO None No 7 7 n a n a n a Rolf Soderstrom CFO None No 7 7 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 2 Garry Watts Nom n a 7 7 4 4 n a n a 2 Giles Kerr Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 7 7 3 4 4 4 6 6 2 Ian Much Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 7 7 4 4 4 4 6 6 James OShea Nom Yes 7 7 3 4 n a n a Richard Wohanka Aud Yes 6 7 n a 2 4 n a Susan Foden Rem Yes 7 7 n a n a 6 6 1.
Garry Watts is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Group.
Notes Richard Wohanka was unable to attend the July Board meeting and AGM due to a standing engagement in place prior to his appointment to the Board and Audit Committee meetings in November and May due to changes of date.
Giles Kerr and James OShea did not attend Nomination Committee meetings where their reappointments were discussed.
The external auditor attends the Audit Committee meetings and the remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
Additional specific Board sub-committee telephone meetings were held as appropriate to approve specific business activities.
41 Governance Tenure of non-executive directors and Chairman as at 31 March 2016 Board by gender Garry Watts 4yrs 3m Giles Kerr 8yrs 5m Ian Much 5yrs 7m Jim OShea 7yrs 0m Richard Wohanka 3yrs 3m Susan Foden 1yr 1m Years 0 2 4 6 8 10 Details of gender diversity in the Group Board composition, Male 75% below Board level can be found in membership and the People and practices area of the Female 25% election of directors strategic report on pages 19 to 21.
The Board currently comprises six All non-executive Board appointments non-executive directors, including are for three-year terms, subject to the Chairman, and two executive re-election at each years AGM, apart directors.
There have been no Balance of directors from Giles Kerr and James OShea, changes during the year.
who were each reappointed for a The names and brief biographical further one-year term, having both details of all the current directors are served on the Board for more than six set out on pages 34 and 35.
Following the formal evaluation recognises the importance of diversity, process, the Chairman is satisfied including gender diversity, and 25% of that each of the directors continues to the members of the Board are women.
perform effectively and demonstrates As reported in the Nomination commitment to their role, including time Committee report on page 52, the for Board and Committee meetings and Committee reviews Board composition their other duties.
As Giles Kerr will have on a regular basis to ensure that, as the served for 9 years this coming year, business evolves, the Board continues a process has begun to appoint his to have the necessary skills and successor in the role of chair of the Chairman 1 experience to support it.
Executive directors 2 Non-executive directors 5 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance report continued Independence Effectiveness The focus is on The Board applies a rigorous process Information, training in order to satisfy itself that its ensuring the Board is and support non-executive directors remain operating effectively In advance of each meeting the directors independent.
The Board reviews this receive an agenda and a full set of question every year, using its own and regularly reviews papers for each item to be discussed via judgment when applying the criteria in its performance.
Having undertaken this sufficiently detailed strategic and review, the Board confirms that all the operational reports.
The Board calendar non-executive directors are considered includes an annual strategy day and to be independent in character and 42 senior executives regularly attend judgment.
In line with the Governance meetings to enhance the non-executive recommendations of the Code, at least directors understanding of the business half the Board, excluding the Chairman, and current issues and to make are independent non-executive presentations on the results and directors.
Garry Watts was considered strategies in their areas of responsibility.
to be independent at the time of his Board meetings are occasionally held at appointment although, in accordance different locations in the UK and US with the Code, he is excluded from the enabling non-executive directors an determination of whether at least half additional opportunity to visit other the Board are independent nonCompany sites.
When they join the Group, each director receives a comprehensive induction.
Conflicts of interest The induction process includes written To address the effect of Section 175 of information and meetings with a cross the Companies Act 2006, the Groups section of senior managers and is Articles of Association enable the Board tailored to their experience.
to authorise situations that might give The time commitment of the nonrise to directors conflicts of interest.
executive directors depends on the Directors complete a declaration form number of committees that they are a in order to determine whether any member of but the expectation is that actual or potential conflicts need they would normally work authorisation.
The forms are reviewed approximately two days per month, annually to ensure that the information subject to any increased demand driven provided is up to date and includes any by business activity.
disclosures made during the past year.
All directors refresh their knowledge At the March 2016 Board meeting all regularly through publications and directors were asked to review and conferences and through information make any necessary amendments to provided by the Group and its advisers.
Specific training during the year has The Company Secretary has reviewed included updates on compliance, social, the latest declarations and has environmental and ethical matters and confirmed that no conflicts are believed developing digital healthcare trends.
Board members are There is an agreed procedure for regularly reminded to disclose any directors to take independent conflicts should they arise.
Any such professional advice, if necessary, at the notifications are kept in a conflicts Groups expense.
They also have direct register maintained by the Company access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
Any director who considers Company Secretary who is responsible they may have a potential conflict of for ensuring that Board procedures are interest is required to report this to the followed.
The Group also provides Chairman in the first instance, who may appropriate directors and officers consult the Nomination Committee and liability insurance.
report its findings to the Board.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board visit to EKOS, Seattle In line with the requirement of the Code Performance evaluation for an external evaluation at least every In September 2015 the Board visited the The Board recognises that an evaluation three years, SCT Consultants Ltd EKOS business in Seattle.
Here they met of its performance is an important carried out the review last year.
This with employees in order to gain a greater factor in ensuring our continued year the Board and its committees understanding of the business, which effectiveness and development.
carried out an internal review of included a tour of the manufacturing The CEO appraises the performance progress against the objectives set facility to see how the ultrasonic devices of the CFO and the Chairman and following last years evaluation, as well are made.
Non-executive directors, non-executive directors, review the as its overall performance during the Ian Much and Richard Wohanka, joined performance of the CEO.
The nonyear through a series of comprehensive two of the EKOS sales team to get an executive directors, led by the Senior web-based questionnaires.
insight into their daily interactions with Independent Director, with input from physicians.
The annual strategy meeting the executive directors, evaluate the and a Board meeting also took place at performance of the Chairman each the site.
The Committees also review their performance and report the results to the Chairman and the Board.
During the year, the non-executive directors held a meeting without the executive directors in order to discuss the performance of the executive directors and their management of the Groups affairs.
43 Governance Performance evaluation Key 2015 objectives Progress Key 2016 objectives Continue evolution of the development Introduction of an annual top down In response to the results of the approach to risk management global macro level risk review of this years evaluation the including deep dives on key risks and facilitated by the Groups external following Board objectives top down risk reviews, integrating the advisers and reviewing principal risks have been set for 2016: risk and strategy discussions.
to support the Viability Statement: Continue to focus on the Further embedding risk management identification of key into the business operations, reviewed strategic options and risks on a monthly basis via the and further integration of performance management review the risk management process and Operational and Financial process into the process Review report to the Board: for formation and review of strategy: Additional deep dive risk reviews of each business segment and Continue the improvement specific areas including cyber risk and of the risk management competition risk.
process and specifically the top down risk review as Enhance the annual strategy review with Interim business segment reviews well as further definition of additional interim discussions regarding introduced as well as a comprehensive risk appetite: a continued specific elements of the strategy.
R&D strategy focus on the impact of review underway.
structural changes in the healthcare industry Continue progression with enhancing Continuation of enhanced leadership generally and how ex-US the capabilities of the Group, including development plans: markets such as EU and those of the Board and having in place In depth Board review of capability Asia operate: succession plans for senior staff and needs monitored monthly via Board members, taking into account Further review of the R&D Operational and Financial Review.
strategy of the Group: Greater focus on Continue to enhance the induction Refined by providing more in depth contingency plans programme for new directors, tailored business reviews and site visits.
for people and having for individual needs.
succession plans in place for senior staff.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance report continued The criteria applied by the directors, Compliance and the review of risk and Accountability in judging the effectiveness of these risk management are embedded Financing reporting controls, are that they allow the throughout the Group.
The Audit maximisation of shareholder value Committee has reviewed the detailed and internal control by exploiting business opportunities reports on Risk, Internal Audit and The statement of directors while ensuring that risks are properly Compliance and reported its findings to responsibilities in relation to the identified and managed and the Groups the Board see the Audit Committee preparation of the financial statements legal, regulatory and other obligations report on pages 48 to 51 for more is set out on page 78 and the auditors are met.
The controls are regularly detail.
The Board has reviewed the risk statement on the respective reviewed to ensure that they enable the management process and confirms responsibilities of directors and the proper management of business risks.
that ongoing processes and systems auditor is included within its report 44 ensure that the Group continues to be set out on pages 80 to 82.
To strengthen the control framework of Governance compliant with the guidance on internal the business, the Group has an Internal Communications with shareholders, control issued by the Code.
Audit group supported externally by such as results announcements, PwC.
In addition, a review of our internal The Group has a system and key interim reports, annual reports or controls was carried out by EY.
Further experts responsible for supporting the AGM and trading updates, are information can be found in the Audit protection and maintenance of patents reviewed carefully and approved by Committee report on pages 48 to 51. and other intellectual property rights the Board, or a sub-committee of on the products in which BTG has an the Board, to ensure they are interest.
The Group also actively accurate, transparent, balanced and Structure and reporting monitors its royalty revenue streams understandable in the view they give The Group has a well-defined and from time-to-time will audit its of the Groups progress and prospects.
management structure with clear lines major licensees to ensure compliance The Board has overall responsibility for of responsibility and accountability.
with the terms of the relevant ensuring that the Group maintains an The Board is responsible for setting the agreements.
adequate system of internal control and overall strategy and reviewing the Delegated authority structures ensure risk management and for reviewing its performance of the Group.
that decisions are taken at an effectiveness.
The Audit Committee, The Leadership Team generally meets appropriate level, with an appropriate on behalf of the Board, undertakes the weekly and more formally on a monthly level of input by internal and external detailed monitoring of the controls, at basis to review business performance expert advisers.
The delegated least annually, and reports to the Board measured against annual budgets, authority structure prescribes financial on its findings.
The Board has reviewed longer-term plans, an agreed set of limits of approval at each level and the system of internal controls including objectives and performance criteria requires decisions with significant financial controls for the year under for each business segment.
In addition, financial, legal risk or reputational review and up to the date of approval it will assess and respond to issues impact for the Group to be approved of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage are monitored monthly on the basis rather than eliminate the risk of failure of detailed reviews of progress and to achieve business objectives, and prospects.
Reporting to the Board is can only provide reasonable and not based on the information provided to absolute assurance against material and reviewed by the Leadership Team misstatement or loss.
as well as their assessment and recommendations regarding how to deliver the Groups objectives.
The reports include non-financial as well as financial information and a review of progress within the development portfolio.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 To avoid any possible conflict of Corporate policies, values Related parties and interest, it has been agreed that Giles and compliance conflicts of interest Kerr will not participate in any All employees receive periodic training The Group maintains robust procedures discussions or decisions concerning on the key requirements of BTGs Code to ensure that related party transactions the relevant agreements either within of Conduct.
It covers all aspects of and potential conflicts of interest are the Board or in any other discussions ethics, business practices and identified, disclosed and managed.
or meetings with the executives of compliance, including a whistle-blowing Directors declare interests in other its subsidiaries.
policy, an anti-bribery and antibusinesses on appointment to the The Board has considered, and is corruption policy and policies related to Board, as they arise and also complete satisfied with, the separation of the ethical conduct of Research and an annual self-certification.
Where it is duties and safeguards.
Development and interactions with identified that a related party See note 29 on page 120 for additional doctors and other healthcare relationship exists, the Board agrees related party disclosures.
Relevant employees specific additional procedures to meet regularly to discuss external ensure the effective management of changes in the regulatory, legal and potential conflicts of interest.
Market Abuse Directive financial environments in which the Giles Kerr, a non-executive director The Group has a Disclosure Committee, Group operates to ensure it remains of the Board, is also the Director of as required by the Market Abuse fully compliant with new legislation and Finance for Oxford University and Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO, best practice.
There is a comprehensive a director of Isis Innovations Limited, Vice President of Corporate and learning and development programme a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oxford Investor Relations and Company which gives employees the opportunity University.
The Committee reviews to take part in training covering a wide of the Group entered into technology all significant items of business range of skills including those in commercialisation and revenue sharing within the Group regularly, and on an leadership and technology, as well as 45 agreements with these organisations ad hoc basis if required, and maintains periodic lunch and learn sessions to prior to Giles Kerr joining the Board.
an Insider List recording both those Governance update employees on key issues The Group has licensed the intellectual employed within the Group and at affecting the business.
property rights covered by these external advisers who may have The Board, through the Audit agreements to independent third-party access to inside information.
Committee, has reviewed the companies that are developing and or Whenever individuals are placed on effectiveness of the internal controls selling the licensed products.
Under or removed from the List they are of the Group.
The controls described these licence agreements, the Group is notified accordingly and advised of above operate and are embedded entitled to receive milestone payments their responsibilities.
Systems and within the day-to-day business.
There and or royalties on sales of the products procedures for maintaining insider lists is an ongoing process for identifying, sold by the third-party licensees.
are being updated so that the Group evaluating and managing significant can meet the requirements of the new Under the various revenue sharing risks faced by the Group.
A reporting Market Abuse Regulation, which agreements, the Group pays a share structure has been in place throughout becomes effective on 3 July 2016. of any income it receives to Oxford the year up to the date of approval of University or Isis Innovations, the financial statements and is depending on the specific technology Remuneration regularly reviewed by the directors and that generated the income.
As the The Remuneration Committee has is in accordance with the Code.
Further revenue sharing agreements do not responsibility for agreeing remuneration information is given in the Audit permit these organisations to have policy and the individual remuneration Committee report on pages 48 to 51. any input over the commercialisation of all executive and non-executive BTG places great emphasis on the of the licensed products or the amount directors and members of the embedded behaviours and values that payable under the relevant revenue Leadership Team.
The Remuneration define the Group which have been sharing agreement, Giles Kerr is not Committee is formed exclusively of integral in building the organisation to able to influence the amounts received non-executive directors and its report date and we believe them to be key for in his position outside the Group.
As can be found on pages 54 to 75. continuing success.
A companywide Giles has no influence over any aspect meeting is held each month where all of these agreements in his role outside sites join via video conference.
Louise the Group, the Company considers that Makin updates employees on different his independence in relation to the aspects of the business and Group is not compromised.
presentations are given by employees from all areas of the business.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance report continued the Groups brokers and investors.
the Investor Relations area on the Relations with Following the twice-yearly results Groups website www.
com Shareholders announcements and any subsequent investors for access by all shareholders.
Communications with investors is shareholder meetings held by In addition, through the website, given a high priority and the Group management, detailed feedback individuals can register to receive is committed to regular and open from external advisers and brokers is electronic copies of all announcements dialogue with all current and potential provided to the Board, outlining the on the day they are issued.
The main points of views and reactions of investors and The AGM provides the Board with an contact for major shareholders are analysts.
This enables the Board to opportunity to communicate with, and the CEO, the CFO and the Groups develop an understanding of the issues answer questions from, private and Investor Relations team.
Meetings with and concerns of major shareholders.
The investors are principally to ensure a The Group formally reports its results Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and 46 common understanding and awareness twice a year with full-year results Remuneration Committees are Governance of the Groups strategy, performance announced in May and interim results available at the Annual General Meeting and policies and the views of investors in November, supplemented by Close to answer questions.
are regularly communicated back to Period and AGM statements.
The CEO The Chairman, Senior Independent the Board.
and CFO give presentations of these Director and other directors are The Investor Relations IR department results to the Groups institutional available to meet with major acts as the day-to-day contact point shareholders, analysts and the media.
As part of his for investors and analysts.
The The presentations are broadcast live role as the Senior Independent Director, directors receive a report from the on the internet for the information of all Giles Kerr is available to shareholders IR department at each Board meeting shareholders.
Extensive information, when contact with the executive giving information on material changes including annual and interim reports directors or the Chairman may not be in shareholdings and any feedback from and all press releases, is published in IR calendar activity 2015 16 April 2015 May 2015 June 2015 July 2015 September 2015 Investor roadshows: Investor roadshow: Investor roadshows: Investor roadshows: Investor roadshow: New York Chicago London, Scotland New York CEO, IR Frankfurt IR Leeds, Manchester, CEO, IR CEO, CFO, IR Liverpool IR Birmingham IR Zurich, Geneva, Copenhagen CEO, IR Conferences: Conferences: Conferences: & Helsinki CEO, IR Annual General Deutsche Bank JP Morgan Cazenove Jefferies Global Meeting Healthcare, Boston Mid-cap, London Healthcare, CEO, IR CEO, IR New York CEO, IR Goldman Sachs JP Morgan Cazenove Sales briefing: Medtech, London Healthcare, London Deutsche Bank CEO, CEO, IR CEO, IR CFO, IR Morgan Stanley JP Morgan Cazenove Global Healthcare, CEO, CFO, IR New York CEO, IR BAML Global Healthcare, London CEO, IR Citi Mid-cap, London CEO, IR BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Investor contact by location Investor contact by management type Number of meetings Attendance United Kingdom 235 CEO 34% United States and Canada 66 CFO 13% Europe 38 IR 53% Rest of the World 23 appropriate.
Garry Watts and Ian Much convening the meeting is distributed should log on to Capita Asset met with major shareholders at their separately to shareholders at least Services BTGs registrars website 47 request as part of a wider shareholder 20 working days before the meeting.
com and consultation exercise with respect to It is also available on the Groups follow the instructions on the screen.
Governance the development of the executive website: www.
com investors Crest members may send their proxy director remuneration policy to be .
The letter votes to the Companys registrars proposed to shareholders for approval accompanying the AGM Notice electronically.
includes details of the resolutions In line with best practice, the Company and explanatory notes thereon.
has introduced mandatory poll voting Annual General Meeting Members of the Group unable to on all resolutions put to the AGM.
The The AGM will be held at 10.30 am on attend the meeting may elect to vote results of the voting will be disclosed Thursday 14 July 2016, at the offices of electronically or using the proxy form and subsequently published in a market Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury accompanying the Notice.
In order announcement and on BTGs website Circus, London EC2M 7SH.
The Notice to vote electronically, members following the meeting.
November 2015 December 2015 January 2016 February 2016 March 2016 Investor roadshows: Investor roadshows: Conferences: Investor roadshow: Investor roadshow: London CEO, CFO, IR Sydney, Melbourne JP Morgan Global Chicago, New York Dublin IR CFO, IR Healthcare, CFO, IR Paris CEO, IR Conferences: San Francisco Glasgow, Conferences: Conferences: CEO, CFO, IR Credit Suisse Edinburgh IR RBC Global EU Healthcare, Jefferies Global Sales briefing: Conferences: Healthcare, London CFO, IR Healthcare, London RBC CEO, CFO, IR New York CFO, IR CEO, IR Deutsche Bank Sales briefing: EU Healthcare, JP Morgan Cazenove Sales briefing: Deutsche Bank London CEO, IR Best of British, Stifel CEO, IR CEO, IR London CEO, IR BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
