Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report has already taken account of the small The role of the Board Chairmans introduction number of changes required and will report To ensure directors maintain overall control Good governance is absolutely key to the formally in accordance with the revised over strategic, financial and operational effective management of the Company and edition of the Code in the 2017 Annual and compliance issues, the Board meets its long term sustainability and continued Report.
However all references to the regularly throughout the year and has success.
The Board is therefore committed Code in this report relate to the 2014 edition formally adopted a schedule of matters to maintaining the highest standards of of the Code.
which are required to be brought to it corporate governance and, as Chairman, it for decision.
Key aspects of the Boards is my role to ensure that we continue to do Philip Rogerson role include: so.
Although we are a decentralised Group Chairman which gives management autonomy to take 27 February 2017 setting the Groups strategic aims and decisions relating to our operations locally, ensuring that the Company has the our governance framework allows the Compliance statement necessary capabilities to deliver the Board to lead the Company in the right Groups strategy: It is the Boards view that for the year ended direction as we develop and pursue our reviewing the Groups operating 31 December 2016 the Company has been future strategy, while ensuring that the tone performance and approving the Groups fully compliant with all of the relevant of the Groups culture and values is set from financial results: provisions set out in the Code applicable the top and that the standards established reviewing and approving larger capital to this reporting period.
The Companys by the Board are maintained throughout expenditure and acquisition divestment auditors,  LLP, are the Group.
proposals and material increases in required to review whether this statement borrowing and loan facilities: and reflects the Companys compliance with One of the key aspects of good governance overseeing the Groups risk management those provisions of the Code specified for by any Board is to plan for future and internal controls processes and their review by the Listing Rules of the management succession.
Financial Conduct Authority and to report if year, following an extensive search and it does not reflect such compliance.
No such selection process, we appointed Frank van There is a clear division of responsibilities report has been made.
Zanten to succeed Michael Roney as Chief between the Chairman and the Chief Executive following Mikes decision to retire Executive which is set out in writing and has Board composition from the Board in April 2016 after more been agreed by the Board and encompasses than 10 years in the role.
Frank, who was As at 31 December 2016, the Board was the following parameters: formerly an owner of a business we made up of eight members comprising a acquired in 1994 and the Managing Director Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other the primary job of the Chairman is to be of our Continental Europe business area executive directors and four non-executive responsible for the leadership of the from 2005 until earlier last year, has directors.
Frank van Zanten was appointed Board and ensuring its effectiveness in extensive knowledge and experience of our to the Board on 1 February 2016 in all aspects of its role while the Chief business gained over many years.
This, anticipation of Michael Roneys retirement Executive is responsible for the together with his successful track record of on 20 April 2016 and Meinie Oldersma leadership and the operational and implementing our strategy for developing resigned from the Board on 22 August performance management of the and expanding the Group both organically 2016.
As announced today, an additional Company within the strategy agreed by and by acquisition, meant that he was ideally non-executive director, Lloyd Pitchford, the Board.
placed to take on the role.
will join the Board on 1 March 2017 and the Chairman is viewed by investors as David Sleath, who has been a non-executive the ultimate steward of the business and The latest edition of the UK Corporate director since September 2007, will retire the guardian of the interests of all the Governance Code the Code, which is from the Board following the Companys shareholders.
published by the Financial Reporting Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2017. the Chairman: Council and a copy of which is available at Brief biographical details of the directors takes overall responsibility for the www.
uk, contains broad principles are given on page 48.
None of the composition and capability of the together with more specific provisions Companys non-executive directors had Board and its Committees: which set out standards of good practice any previous connection with the Company consults regularly with the Chief in relation to Board leadership and or its executive directors on appointment Executive and is available on a flexible effectiveness, accountability, remuneration to the Board and all of them are considered basis to provide advice, counsel and and relations with shareholders.
The report by both the Board and the criteria set out in support to the Chief Executive: and that follows provides an overview of the the Code to be independent.
The Chairman ensures corporate governance is work undertaken by the Board and its and each of the non-executive directors conducted in accordance with current Committees in fulfilling our governance have a breadth of strategic, management best practice, as appropriate to the responsibilities and describes how the and financial experience gained in each of Group.
principles of the Code have been applied their own fields in a range of multinational the Chief Executive: by the Company during the year ended businesses.
In accordance with the terms manages the executive directors and 31 December 2016.
An updated version of of the Code each of the directors, with the the Groups management and day-tothe Code was published in April 2016 and exception of David Sleath who retires at the day activities: will apply to the Company for the year conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, prepares and presents to the Board the ending 31 December 2017.
The Company will be subject to re-election at the strategy for growth in shareholder forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
value: 50 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 sets the operating plans and budgets The Board is supplied with full and timely Conflicts of interest required to deliver the agreed strategy: information, including detailed financial The directors are required to avoid ensures that the Group has in place information, to enable the directors to situations where they have, or could have, a appropriate risk management and discharge their responsibilities.
To enable direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or control mechanisms: and informed decision making, briefing papers possibly may conflict, with the Companys communicates with the Companys are prepared and circulated to directors interests.
In accordance with the Companies shareholders and analysts on a approximately one week before the Act 2006, the Companys Articles of day-to-day basis as necessary subject scheduled Board meeting.
All directors Association allow the Board to authorise to an overview of such matters by the have access to the advice and services potential conflicts of interest that may arise Chairman.
of the Company Secretary who is tasked and to impose such limits or conditions as it with ensuring that Board procedures are thinks fit.
The Chief Executive is also the designated complied with and the Board is fully member of the Board responsible for briefed on relevant legislative, regulatory Directors are required to give notice of any environmental, social and governance and corporate governance developments.
potential situational and or transactional matters and reports to the Board in relation Directors may also take independent conflicts which are then considered by the to such matters.
professional advice at the Companys Board and, if deemed appropriate, expense where they judge this to be authorised accordingly.
A director is not Following David Sleaths retirement, Vanda necessary in the furtherance of their however permitted to participate in such Murray will become the Senior Independent duties to discharge their responsibilities considerations or to vote in relation to their Director.
A key role of the Senior as directors.
Independent Director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which The Board meets formally at least seven The Board has considered and authorised a contact through the normal channels of times a year and the Board calendar is number of potential situational conflicts all Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance planned to ensure that the directors discuss of which relate to the holding of external Director has failed to resolve or for which a wide range of topics throughout the year.
directorships and have been entered on the such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Normally at least two Board meetings a Companys conflicts register.
No actual Independent Director is also available to the year are held at or near Group locations in conflicts have been identified during the other directors should they have any the UK and overseas where the directors year.
The Board considers that these concerns which are not appropriate to raise have the opportunity to meet and interact procedures operate effectively.
with the Chairman or which have not been with senior executives from different satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
businesses within the Groups portfolio as Audit Committee well as observe the operations in situ.
The Audit Committee comprises all of the The non-executive directors play a key role During 2016 a number of the Groups senior independent non-executive directors and is in corporate governance and accountability executives made presentations to the Board currently chaired by David Sleath who, as through both their attendance at Board about a variety of different and diverse Chief Executive and formerly Group Finance meetings and their membership of the topics including reviews of potential Director of SEGRO plc and as a fellow of the various Board Committees.
The nonacquisition opportunities, the postICAEW, is considered by the Board to have executive directors bring a broad and acquisition performance of businesses recent and relevant financial experience as diverse range of business and financial acquired in prior years, the Groups required by the Code.
Following David expertise and experience to the Board financing facilities and treasury policies, Sleaths retirement, Lloyd Pitchford, who, which complements and supplements the cybersecurity risks and controls, supplier experience of the executive directors.
as mentioned above, is joining the Board as audits carried out and health and safety a non-executive director on 1 March 2017, This enables them to evaluate information performance metrics.
provided and constructively challenge will become the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is the Chief Financial Officer managements viewpoints, assumptions In addition to regular Board meetings, the and performance.
of Experian plc and, as such, also has recent directors meet annually to review and and relevant financial experience.
While the discuss the Groups overall strategy.
As part The Board has appointed Audit, other directors are not members of the of this process, presentations are made by Committee, they normally attend meetings Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the Chief Executive and the heads of the all of which comply with the provisions of of the Committee by invitation together with business areas together with the Director of the Head of Internal Audit and the Code and play an important governance Corporate Development.
representatives from the external auditors.
role through the detailed work they carry The Secretary to the Committee is Paul out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated All new directors receive a tailored Hussey, Company Secretary.
Briefing papers are prepared induction on joining the Board, including about the Audit Committee and the work and circulated to Committee members in meetings with senior management and undertaken by it during the year and prior advance of each meeting and, in respect visits to some of the Groups locations.
They to the publication of the Groups results for of the Audit Committee, made available also receive a detailed information pack 2016 are set out in the Audit Committee to the other directors.
Further information which includes details of directors duties report on pages 56 to 59.
Members relating to the Board Committees is set and responsibilities, procedures for dealing attendance at the Committee meetings out below.
in Bunzls shares and a number of other held during the year is set out in the table governance related issues.
The terms of reference of continually updated on the Groups Information and support the Committee, which were reviewed businesses and their markets and the Board agendas are set by the Chairman in and revised by the Board during the year changes to the competitive and regulatory consultation with the Chief Executive and following a recommendation made by the environments in which they operate.
with the assistance of the Company Committee, are available on the Companys Secretary, who maintains a rolling website, www.
com Training and development needs of the programme of items for discussion by the Board are kept under review and directors Board to ensure that all matters reserved attend external courses where it is for the Board and other key issues are considered appropriate for them to do so.
considered at the appropriate time.
51 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued nominating, for the approval of the Board, Remuneration Committee Activities appropriate individuals to fill Board The Committee met on three occasions The Remuneration Committee comprises vacancies as and when they arise having during 2016.
Members attendance at those all of the independent non-executive considered candidates with relevant meetings is set out in the table below.
directors and is currently chaired by Vanda experience from a wide range of Murray.
While neither the Chairman of the backgrounds: and One of the Committees main Company nor the Chief Executive are succession planning, taking into account responsibilities during the year related to members of the Committee, they normally the challenges and opportunities facing the process of identifying and selecting a attend meetings by invitation except when the Company and the background, skills new non-executive director.
Having taken the Committee is considering matters and expertise that will be required on the account of the challenges and opportunities concerning themselves.
The Secretary to Board in the future, and reviewing facing the Company currently and in the the Committee is Julie Welch, Director of annually management succession future and after identifying the background, Group Human Resources.
Further details planning processes in relation to the skills, knowledge and experience that will of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys senior executives.
be required of non-executive directors in Companys remuneration policy and how the future, the Committee prepared and it is applied are set out in the Directors The Committee meets as necessary agreed a detailed specification for the remuneration report on pages 60 to 87. throughout the year to discharge its role and appointed an external search Members attendance at the Committee responsibilities.
An external search consultancy, The Zygos Partnership, to meetings held during the year is set out in consultancy which does not have any other assist them in the recruitment process.
The terms of reference of connection with the Company is retained by The Zygos Partnership does not provide any the Committee, which were reviewed by the the Company to assess potential candidates other services to, or have any connection Board during the year, are available on the to be considered as prospective nonwith, the Company.
In particular the Companys website.
executive directors and, when appropriate, Committee was keen to find a successful executive directors.
This process was senior business executive with extensive Nomination Committee adopted both in relation to the appointment international management experience.
of Frank van Zanten on 1 February 2016 to Composition As a potential non-executive director, it was succeed Michael Roney as Chief Executive The Nomination Committee comprises important that the chosen candidate was with effect from 20 April 2016 and the the Chairman of the Company, who chairs able to play a supportive role to the appointment of Lloyd Pitchford as a the Committee unless the Committee is executive management team, while at the non-executive director with effect from dealing with the matter of succession of same time provide the strategic input into 1 March 2017.
Details of the process the Chairman of the Company, the Chief the Companys direction and development.
followed in relation to Frank van Zantens Executive and all of the independent nonIt was also a requirement that the appointment are set out in the Corporate executive directors.
In accordance with prospective director could provide wise governance report included in the 2015 the provisions of the Code, the majority of counsel and independence of mind and to Annual Report and further information the members are independent non-executive challenge management constructively by relating to the appointment of Lloyd directors.
The Secretary to the Committee offering impartial, independent and Pitchford is set out below.
is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
The Committee carried out Board and committee attendance Role The following table shows the attendance in 2016 of directors at Board meetings and at The Committees principal role is to meetings of the Board Committees of which they were members: consider, and make recommendations to the Board concerning, the composition of the Audit Remuneration Nomination Board and its Committees including Board Committee Committee Committee proposed appointees to the Board, whether Number of meetings 7 4 4 3 to fill any vacancies that may arise or to Philip Rogerson 7 3 change the number of Board members.
It is Michael Roney 3 1 the Committees role to ensure that the Board and its Committees maintain the Frank van Zanten 6 2 appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, Patrick Larmon 7 experience and diversity to ensure their Brian May 7 continued effectiveness.
David Sleath 7 4 4 3 Eugenia Ulasewicz 7 4 4 3 The Committees responsibilities include: Jean-Charles Pauze 6 3 3 2 Meinie Oldersma 4 2 2 1 reviewing the structure, size and Vanda Murray 7 4 4 3 composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of Notes: the Board and making recommendations Michael Roney retired as a director on 20 April 2016 having attended all of the Board and relevant Committee to the Board with regard to any proposed meetings held between 1 January 2016 and that date.
changes: Frank van Zanten was appointed as a director on 1 February 2016 and attended all of the Board and relevant Committee meetings held between that date and the end of the year.
Meinie Oldersma resigned as a director on 22 August 2016 having attended all of the Board and Committee meetings held between 1 January 2016 and that date.
52 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 an extensive search and selection process, ensuring that the best people are appointed continuing to keep the key strategic overseen by a sub-committee of the for the relevant roles, the Committee issues facing the Group under review both Committee, and a number of candidates recognises the benefits of greater diversity as part of the Boards annual strategy were considered.
All members of the and will continue to take account of this meeting and at other times of the year Committee had the opportunity to meet the when considering any particular as appropriate: shortlisted candidates following which the appointment.
However, the primary providing ongoing support to the new recommendation was made to the Board in responsibility of the Committee in selecting Chief Executive as appropriate: February 2017, which was subsequently and recommending candidates to the Board continuing the focus of the Nomination unanimously approved, that Lloyd Pitchford when making new appointments is to Committee on the management be appointed as a non-executive director ensure the strength of the Boards succession plans for the Group, including with effect from 1 March 2017.
The Board composition and the overriding aim is to in particular maintaining the Boards also accepted the Committees always select and recommend the best exposure to the Groups senior recommendation that he be appointed to candidate for the position.
Further management below Board level: and each of the three Board Committees and information about the Companys workforce the successful recruitment and that he should assume the role of Chairman diversity is set out on page 43. subsequent appointment of an additional of the Audit Committee upon David Sleaths non-executive director and overseeing the retirement in April 2017.
The terms of reference of the Committee, induction and integration of such director.
which were reviewed and amended by During the year the Committee also the Board in 2016, are set out on the As a result of the overall performance reviewed and took account of the balance Companys website.
evaluation process carried out in 2016, of skills, knowledge, experience and the Board concluded that both it and its diversity of the Board, the time commitment Committees are operating effectively.
Performance evaluation expected of the non-executive directors and The Company has a formal performance the conclusions of the formal evaluation Financial and business reporting evaluation process for the Board, its process which was carried out when Committees and individual directors The responsibilities of the directors in considering and recommending the overseen by the Chairman.
This includes respect of the preparation of the Group and nomination of directors for re-election individual discussions between the parent company financial statements are at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
In Chairman and each director when their set out on page 139 and the auditors report particular the Committee reviewed the individual training and development needs on pages 140 to 145 includes a statement by performance of David Sleath, who was are reviewed.
Led by the Senior Independent the external auditors about their reporting appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Director, the non-executive directors also responsibilities.
As set out on page 97, the The Committee believed that he continued meet without the Chairman present at least directors are of the opinion that it is to be effective and to demonstrate strong annually to appraise the Chairmans appropriate to continue to adopt the going independence in character and judgement performance including a review of his other concern basis in preparing the financial in the manner in which he was discharging commitments to ensure that he is able to statements.
allocate sufficient time to the Company to Consequently the Committee was satisfied discharge his responsibilities effectively.
The process of preparing the Annual Report that, despite his length of tenure, he The Chairman also periodically holds has included the following: remained independent.
As mentioned meetings with the non-executive directors above, David Sleath is due to retire following without the executive directors present.
All comprehensive reviews undertaken at the conclusion of the Annual General of these processes were carried out different levels in the Group in order to Meeting to be held on 19 April 2017 and satisfactorily during the year.
ensure the accuracy, consistency and accordingly he will not be subject to overall balance of the Annual Report: and re-election at the meeting.
In accordance with the requirements of the procedures to verify the factual accuracy Code an external performance evaluation of the Annual Report.
The Chief Executive presented his annual was first carried out in 2012 and the results management succession plan to the were subsequently presented to the Board.
From the information and assurance Committee.
The Company recognises that The facilitator of the external evaluation, provided by the ongoing work of the internal having the right directors and senior Lintstock, does not provide any other audit department, the reviews conducted by management is crucial for the Groups services to, or have any other connection the external auditors in relation to both the success and it is a key task of the Committee with, the Company.
Although the Code only half year and full year results, the Boards to ensure that the Company has a robust requires that the evaluation of the Board understanding of the Groups business and and continuous succession planning and its Committees should be externally the information provided by the senior process over both the medium to long term facilitated at least every three years, the executive management team, the Board to ensure that there is the right mix and Board has decided to appoint Lintstock to considers that the Annual Report, taken as a skills available as the Company evolves.
carry out an annual performance evaluation whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and accordingly external evaluations have and provides the information necessary As part of the review of the composition been completed each year since 2012.
By for shareholders to assess the Companys of the Board and the succession planning doing so, the Board is able to ensure that position and performance, business model process, both the Board and the Committee there is consistency and continuity in the and strategy.
recognise the importance of gender evaluation process and the presentation diversity throughout the Group.
As at the of the results from one year to the next.
date of this report, two of the eight Board Following the evaluation which was carried members and one of the five Executive out in 2016, the Board once again identified Committee members are female.
The a number of key priorities in order to improve Committee aims to have a Board with a the Boards performance, including: broad range of skills, backgrounds, experience and diversity and, while the Committee will continue to follow a policy of 53 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued strategic plans and comprehensive the Groups bank balances around the Risk management and budgets which are prepared annually world are monitored on a weekly basis internal control by the business areas and approved by and significant movements are reviewed The directors acknowledge that they have the Board: centrally: overall responsibility for identifying, formal standards of business conduct the internal audit department periodically evaluating, managing and mitigating the including a code of ethics and reviews individual businesses and principal risks faced by the Group and for whistleblowing procedure based procedures, makes recommendations to monitoring the Groups risk management on honesty, integrity, fair dealing and improve controls and follows up to ensure and internal control systems.
However, such compliance with the local laws and that management implements the systems are designed to manage rather regulations of the countries in which recommendations made.
The internal than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group operates: audit departments work is determined on business objectives and can only provide a well-established consolidation and a risk assessment basis and their findings reasonable and not absolute assurance reporting system for the statutory are reported to Group and business area against material misstatement or loss.
In accounts and monthly management management as well as to the Audit accordance with Principle C. 2 of the Code accounts: Committee and the external auditors: and the related guidance, the Company has continual investment in IT systems an annual self-assessment of the status established the procedures necessary to to ensure the production of timely of internal controls measured against a ensure that there is an ongoing process for and accurate management information prescribed list of minimum standards is identifying, evaluating, managing and relating to the operation of the performed by every business and action mitigating the principal risks faced by the Groups businesses: and plans are agreed where remedial action is Group and for determining the nature and detailed manuals covering Group required: extent of the principal risks it is willing to accounting policies and policies and the Audit Committee, which comprises all take to achieve its strategic objectives.
procedures for the Groups treasury of the independent non-executive The directors confirm that such procedures operations supplemented by internal directors of the Company, meets have been in place for the year ended control procedures at a business regularly throughout the year.
Further 31 December 2016 and up to the date of area level.
details of the work of the Committee, approval of these financial statements and which includes a review of the that the Groups risk management and Some of the procedures carried out in order effectiveness of the Companys internal internal control systems have been to monitor the effectiveness of the internal financial controls and the assurance monitored during the year.
control system and to identify, manage and procedures relating to the Companys risk mitigate business risk are listed below: management system, are set out in the A summary of the principal control Audit Committee report on pages 56 to 59: structures and processes in place across central management holds regular regular meetings are held with insurance the Group is set out below and further meetings with business area and risk advisers to assess the risks information relating to how the directors management to discuss strategic, throughout the Group: maintain overall control over all significant operational and financial issues including a management committee, which strategic, financial, operational and a review of the principal risks affecting oversees issues relating principally to compliance issues is set out in The role of each of the business areas and the environment, health & safety, insurance the Board section on pages 50 and 51. policies and procedures by which these and business continuity planning matters, risks are managed: sets relevant policies and practices and The Board has delegated to an Executive the Executive Committee meets twice per monitors their implementation: Committee, consisting of the Chief month and also reviews the outcome of risk assessments, safety audits and a Executive, Finance Director and other the discussions held at business area regular review of progress against functional managers, the initial meetings on internal control and risk objectives established by each business responsibility for identifying, evaluating, management issues: area are periodically carried out: and managing and mitigating the risks facing the Board in turn reviews the outcome of developments in tax, treasury and the Group and for deciding how these are the Executive Committee discussions on accounting are continually monitored by best managed and to establish a system of internal control and risk management Group management in association with internal control appropriate to the business issues which ensures a documented and external advisers.
environments in which the Group operates.
auditable trail of accountability: The principal features of this system each business area, the Executive The directors confirm that they have include: Committee and the Board carry out an reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys annual fraud risk assessment: risk management and internal control a procedure for monitoring the actual results are reviewed monthly systems in operation during 2016. effectiveness of the internal control against budget, forecasts and the system through a tiered management previous year and explanations obtained The external auditors are engaged to structure with clearly defined lines of for all significant variances: express an opinion on the financial responsibility and delegation of authority: all treasury activities, including in relation statements.
The audit includes a review and clearly defined authorisation procedures to the management of foreign exchange evaluation of the system of internal financial for capital investment and acquisitions: exposures and Group borrowings, are control and the data contained in the reported and reviewed monthly: financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
54 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 As a result, the directors believe that the statements prior to entering its close Assessment of the prospects of the Company is well placed to manage its periods at the end of June and the end of Company and its viability statement business risks successfully.
December in order to keep the Companys In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the shareholders and the financial markets Code, the directors set out below how they The resilience of the Group to a range of periodically updated on the Companys have assessed the prospects of the possible scenarios, in particular the impact trading performance outside of the Company, over what period the prospects on key financial ratios and its ongoing regulatory announcements made in relation have been assessed and the Companys compliance with financial covenants, was to the half year and annual results.
factored into the directors considerations through stress testing current financial The Chief Executive and Finance Director The context for and period over projections.
These included the following: have regular meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and report to which the prospects of the Company an adverse but plausible deterioration in the Board the views of major shareholders.
have been assessed revenue and operating profit combined Additional forms of communication include To consider the prospects of the Company with the adverse impact of a number of presentations of the half year and annual and determine an appropriate time frame acquisitions underperforming and a results.
The Chairman and the Senior for the purpose of making a statement on significant increase in working capital: Independent Director and the other nonthe Companys longer term viability, the the impact that the materialisation of the executive directors are available to meet directors have taken into account various market, operational and tax related with major shareholders on request.
The factors including the nature of the principal risks may have on the Board also periodically reviews and Companys business, its business model Companys longer term viability, in discusses analysts and brokers reports and strategy and the existing planning particular on its financial liquidity and and surveys of shareholder opinions periods.
In particular: debt covenants risk, both with and without conducted by the Companys own brokers.
mitigating actions: and Bunzl has a geographically balanced and a reverse stress test scenario which Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent diversified business portfolio operating in identified what would need to happen to to shareholders at least 20 working days 30 countries: cause the Company to fail, which for this before the meeting.
All shareholders are the Company operates across six core, purpose is taken to mean an unavoidable encouraged to participate in the Annual fragmented market sectors, many of breach of financial covenants.
The General Meeting, are invited to ask which are growing and resilient to conditions required to create this situation questions at the meeting and are given the challenging economic conditions: and were so severe that it was considered to opportunity to meet all of the directors the business model and strategy be implausible.
Shareholders unable to attend minimise the volatility of the Companys are encouraged to vote using the proxy card results, enabling Bunzl to deliver In all scenarios it has been assumed, based mailed to them or electronically as detailed consistently good results with high on past experience and all current in the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders are returns on capital and cash conversion.
indicators, that the Company will be able to given the option to withhold their vote on the refinance its banking facilities and US proxy form.
As in previous years, at the With regard to the time frame specifically, private placement notes as and when they forthcoming Annual General Meeting each the directors considered the above factors mature.
The directors consider that the of the resolutions put to the meeting will be as well as the Groups strategic planning stress testing based assessment of the taken on a poll rather than on a show of process.
Comprehensive budgets are Companys prospects, building on the hands as directors believe that a poll is prepared annually by the business areas results of the robust assessment of the more representative of shareholders voting and approved by the Board.
Strategic plans principal risks to the business and the intentions because shareholder votes are covering a period of two years beyond the financial implications of them materialising, counted according to the number of shares forecast for the current year are also confirms the resilience of the Group to held and all votes tendered are taken into prepared annually and reviewed by the severe but plausible scenarios and provides account.
The results of the poll will be Board.
While the directors have no reason a reasonable basis on which to conclude on publicly announced and made available to believe the Company will not be viable its longer term viability.
on the Companys website as soon as over a longer period, given the inherent practicable following the Annual uncertainty involved, the period over which General Meeting.
Confirmation of longer term viability the directors consider it possible to form a Taking into account the Companys current reasonable expectation as to the Groups On behalf of the Board position and principal risks and the longer term viability is the three year period assessment performed of the prospects of to 31 December 2019.
Paul Hussey the Company, the directors have a Secretary reasonable expectation that the Company How the prospects of the Company 27 February 2017 will be able to continue in operation and and its longer term viability have meet its liabilities as they fall due over the been assessed three year period to 31 December 2019.
In making a viability statement, the directors are required to consider the Relations with shareholders Companys ability to meet its liabilities in As required by the relevant law and full as they fall due, taking into account the regulations, the Company reports formally Companys current position and principal to shareholders twice a year with the half risks.
The Company has significant financial year results announced normally at the end resources including committed and of August and the annual results announced uncommitted banking facilities and US normally at the end of February.
In addition, private placement notes, further details of during the year, the Company has published, which are set out in Note 13 to the on a voluntary basis, two quarterly trading consolidated financial statements.
statements and two other trading 55
