Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Audit Committee report Audit Committee report framework of listed companies and acts independently of management to ensure that the interests of our shareholders are properly protected through the Committees oversight of the Companys financial management and its reporting processes and procedures.
There are a number of key aspects to this including the use of appropriate accounting policies and practices, supported by the implementation of a robust assurance framework in which the risk management and internal control systems, the internal and external audit functions and the regular internal reporting of the Companys performance against budgets, forecasts and prior year results are all very important.
In particular this year David Sleath the Committee has considered the impact of Statement from David Chairman of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation that Sleath, Chairman of the the Audit came into effect on 17 June 2016 which has Committee resulted in changes to the audit regime for Audit Committee EU public interest entities such as the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to Company.
The new legislation introduces present our Audit Committee report for mandatory rotation of auditors and tighter 2016, the purpose of which is to give restrictions on the provision of non-audit shareholders an overview of the role of services, as well as setting out the Committee and to report on the work requirements in relation to the it has carried out during the past year.
responsibilities and composition of audit committees.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting The significant accounting matters Council includes a number of provisions considered by the Committee in relation relating to the role and reporting to the 2016 financial statements were the requirements of audit committees and accounting for business combinations, the accordingly this report has been prepared in carrying value of goodwill and customer accordance with the relevant provisions of relationships intangible assets, defined the 2014 edition of the Code which applied to benefit pension schemes, taxation and the financial year ended 31 December 2016. supplier rebates.
These are discussed in detail in the report that follows and the As in previous years, the Committees Committee is satisfied that these matters primary focus has been centred on the have been properly recorded in the integrity of the Companys financial Companys books and records and reporting together with the related internal accounted for appropriately.
The Committee has a clearly defined role in the corporate governance As a Committee we will continue to keep our activities under review and focused on the audit, assurance and risk processes within the business.
By doing so we will The Committee has a key role to play in ensure that we are able to maintain high standards of financial governance in line overseeing the interests of shareholders with the regulatory framework as well as market practice for audit committees by focusing on the integrity of our financial going forward.
reporting and ensuring that the Company Role maintains clearly defined and established The Committees principal role is to ensure that the Company has effective governance risk management and internal control over the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of related processes and procedures.
disclosures, the performance of both the internal and external audit functions and the 56 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 management of the Groups systems of reviewing the effectiveness of both the Activities internal control, business risks and related external auditors and the internal audit As Chairman of the Committee, I hold compliance activities.
In particular the function following completion of detailed preparatory discussions with the Companys Committee is responsible for: questionnaires by both the Board and senior management, the Head of Internal senior management within the Company: Audit and the external auditors prior to monitoring and reviewing the integrity reviewing and approving the level and Committee meetings to discuss the items to of the financial statements of the Group nature of non-audit work which the be considered at the Committee meetings.
and the significant financial reporting external auditors performed during the In addition, separate discussions are held judgements contained in them: year, including the fees paid for such between the Committee and the Head of reviewing the effectiveness of the work: Internal Audit and the external auditors Companys internal financial controls: reviewing and amending the policy for the without management present.
I also attend reviewing the process for the provision of non-audit services by the the Annual General Meeting to respond to management of risk and reviewing the external auditors: any shareholder questions that might be assurance procedures over controls reviewing the principal tax risks raised on the Committees activities.
The designed to manage key risks: applicable to the Company and the steps Committee met on four occasions during overseeing the Companys internal audit taken to manage such risks: and the year and members attendance at those activities: reviewing and updating the Companys meetings is set out in the table on page 52. making recommendations to the internal audit charter in accordance with Board in relation to the appointment, international internal auditing standards.
The Committees activities in 2016 included: re-appointment and removal of the external auditors: Following each Committee meeting, I report making recommendations to the Board reviewing the appropriateness of the any significant findings to the Board and concerning the re-appointment of the Companys relationship with the external copies of the minutes of the Committee external auditors and approving the auditors, including monitoring the meetings are circulated to all of the remuneration and terms of engagement auditors independence and objectivity: directors and to the external auditors.
of the auditors including the audit strategy agreeing the scope of, and the terms of and planning process for the current engagement and fees for, the statutory During the year the Financial Reporting financial year: audit: Councils Corporate Reporting Review Team receiving and considering reports from initiating and supervising a competitive CRRT carried out a review of the Annual management and the external auditors in tender process for the external audit as Report for the year ended 31 December relation to the half yearly financial report may be required from time to time: and 2015.
The response by the Company to the and the annual financial statements: developing and implementing a policy on request for information was discussed with reviewing the half yearly financial report the engagement of the external auditors me in my capacity as Chairman of the Audit and the annual financial statements and to supply non-audit services.
Committee prior to responding to the CRRT.
the formal announcements relating Details of both the enquiries raised by the thereto: The Committee is solely responsible for CRRT and the Companys response thereto receiving and considering reports from negotiating and agreeing the external were also considered by the Committee.
the Head of Internal Audit in relation to auditors fee, the scope of the statutory The CRRT have closed their enquiries with the work undertaken by the internal audit audit and initiating and supervising a no requirements to restate any disclosures.
function and reviewing and approving competitive tender process for the external However, undertakings were given the internal audit work programme audit where it is appropriate to do so and to to enhance certain disclosures in the for the year: make recommendations to the Board as to future in response to the CRRT review.
receiving and considering a report from the external auditors appointment pursuant The Committee is satisfied that the the Chartered Institute of Internal to any such process.
The current version of enhancements proposed to, and agreed Auditors relating to an external the Committees terms of reference, which with, the CRRT have been appropriately assessment of the internal audit function: were reviewed by both the Committee and incorporated in the 2016 Annual Report.
reviewing the effectiveness of the the Board in 2016, is available on the Companys internal financial controls and Companys website, www.
Financial statements and significant the assurance procedures relating to the Companys risk management systems: accounting matters In the performance of its duties, the reviewing the arrangements by which During the year and prior to the publication Committee has independent access to the staff may, in confidence, raise concerns of the Groups results for 2016, the services of the Companys internal audit about possible improprieties in matters of Committee reviewed the 2016 half yearly function and to the external auditors and financial reporting or other matters and financial report and related news release, may obtain outside professional advice as receiving periodic reports relating to the the 2016 Annual Report including the necessary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit matters raised through such financial statements, the 2016 annual and the external auditors have direct access arrangements: results news release and the reports from to me as the Chairman of the Committee reviewing the Committees terms of the external auditors on the outcomes of and I held a number of meetings with each reference: their half year review and the audit relating of them during the year outside formal reviewing the Committees effectiveness to 2016.
following an externally facilitated performance evaluation: 57 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Audit Committee report Audit Committee report continued As part of its work, the Committee Defined benefit pension schemes External auditors independence considered the following significant The Committee considered reports from and effectiveness accounting matters in relation to the management and the external auditors in The Committee ensures that the external Groups financial statements: relation to the valuation of the defined auditors remain independent of the benefit pension schemes and reviewed the Company and receives written confirmation Accounting for business key actuarial assumptions used in from the external auditors as to whether calculating the defined benefit pension combinations they consider themselves independent liabilities, especially in relation to discount For business combinations, the Group has a within the meaning of their own internal rates, inflation rates and mortality life long-standing process for the identification and the relevant regulatory and expectancy.
The Committee discussed the of the fair values of the assets acquired and professional requirements.
Key members reasons for the increase in the net pension liabilities assumed including separate of the audit team rotate off the Companys deficit and was satisfied that the identification of intangible assets using audit after a specific period of time.
assumptions used were appropriate and external valuation specialists where were supported by independent actuarial required.
The Committee reviewed this In order to ensure that the objectivity and experts.
Details of the key assumptions process and discussed with management independence of the external auditors is not used are set out in Note 20 to the and the external auditors the methodology compromised, the Company has a detailed consolidated financial statements.
and assumptions used to value the assets policy relating to the provision of non-audit and liabilities of the acquisitions completed services by the external auditors which is Taxation in 2016.
The Committee concluded that it overseen by the Committee.
As mentioned was satisfied with managements valuations in my introduction, following the The Committee reviewed a report and of these assets and liabilities, including the implementation of the EU Audit Directive received a presentation from the Head of degree to which such valuations are and Regulation with effect from 17 June Tax highlighting the principal tax risks that supported by professional advice from 2016 the rules relating to non-audit services the Group faces and a detailed risk external advisers.
The new rules assessment relating to the tax risks introduce a statutory cap on the level of identified including the judgements non-audit fees which may be billed by the underpinning the provisions for potential tax The carrying value of goodwill and external auditors and include a blacklist liabilities.
The Committee also reviewed the other customer relationships of prohibited services that the external results of the external auditors assessment intangible assets auditors are not allowed to provide.
As a of provisions for income taxes and, having Goodwill is allocated to cash generating result, as part of the 2016 review of both done so, was satisfied with the key units CGUs and is tested annually for its terms of reference and the Companys judgements and proposed disclosures impairment.
During the year the Committee policy for the provision of non-audit services related to tax made by management.
reviewed an assessment prepared by by the external auditors, the Committee management of the composition of the approved appropriate amendments to Supplier rebates Groups CGUs, which were last formally ensure that such terms of reference and The Group has various rebate arrangements reviewed in 2010.
Having done so, the policy are fully compliant with the new with a number of suppliers.
Some of these Committee was satisfied with the proposed regulations.
Under the revised policy the arrangements are based on the volume of revisions to the CGUs as they reflected only non-audit services that have been products purchased and others are based adjustments required from the addition pre-approved by the Committee are those on the volume of products sold.
The of approximately 100 businesses and which are not prohibited or otherwise recognition of supplier rebate income from consequential changes to management restricted and which are considered to be the arrangements which are based on the oversight and responsibility.
The Committee trivial due to the value of the services.
volume of products purchased may, for a critically reviewed and discussed Apart from such pre-approved services, limited number of arrangements, involve managements report on the impairment a permitted service requires specific the requirement for some estimates to be testing of the carrying value of goodwill and authorisation from the Committee or myself made about whether certain conditions customer relationships intangible assets as the Committee Chairman.
It is the related to such rebate income have been, or of each of the existing and revised CGUs Companys policy to assess the non-audit will be, met.
In reviewing the consolidated including the sensitivity of the outcome of services to be performed by the Companys financial statements, the Committee impairment testing to the use of different auditors on a case-by-case basis to ensure considered a report from management in discount rates and considered the external adherence to the prevailing ethical relation to the value of the different types of auditors testing thereof.
After due standards and regulations.
In the main, rebates in the income statement for the year consideration, the Committee concluded other firms are used by the Company to and the value of supplier rebate income that it was satisfied with the assumptions provide non-audit services.
However, if the receivables at the year end.
This report and judgements applied in relation to such provision of a service by the Companys showed that substantially all of the supplier testing and agreed that there was no auditors is not prohibited and adequate rebates were unconditional and nonimpairment to goodwill or customer safeguards are in place, it is sometimes judgemental.
The Committee discussed the relationships intangible assets based appropriate for this additional work to be findings of the external auditors in this area on either CGU allocation.
Details of the carried out by the Companys auditors.
and, having done so, concluded that it was key assumptions and judgements used Details of the fees paid to the external satisfied with the accounting for the Groups are set out in Note 9 to the consolidated auditors in 2016 in respect of the audit and supplier rebates for the year including the financial statements.
for non-audit services are set out in Note 4 value of rebate income recognised.
to the consolidated financial statements.
58 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 The ratio of the fees relating to non-audit PwC as external auditors for the year provided to the Committee which include services to audit services in 2016 was 17%.
ending 31 December 2017 be put to details of the audit findings, and the relevant shareholders at the forthcoming management actions required in order to During 2016 the Committee carried out a Annual General Meeting.
address any issues arising therefrom, as review of the effectiveness of the external well as updates on the progress made by audit process carried out in relation to the management in addressing any outstanding Internal control and audit of the financial statements for the recommendations from previously reported risk management year ended 31 December 2015.
In addition, the internal audit As mentioned above, the Committee is of this review, the Committee considered function reports on any significant issues responsible for reviewing on behalf of the feedback on the audit gathered through relating to the processes for controlling the Board the effectiveness of the Companys a detailed survey which was completed activities of the Group and the adequacy and internal financial controls and the by each of the directors and members of effectiveness of such processes.
Overall assurance procedures relating to the the Companys senior management team the work of the internal audit function Companys risk management system.
These at both Group and business area levels.
provides the Committee with a further controls and procedures are designed to The survey covered a total of 24 different means of monitoring the processes and manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure aspects of the audit process grouped under actions to manage and mitigate those of the Company to meet its business four separate headings: the robustness of risks identified as posing the greatest objectives and, as such, provide reasonable, the audit process: the quality of delivery: threat to the Company.
but not absolute, assurance against the quality of people and service: and the material misstatement or loss.
During the quality of reporting.
Each respondent was A review by the Committee of the year, the Committee monitored the asked to award a rating on a scale of 1 to 5 effectiveness of the internal audit function effectiveness of the internal financial for each aspect reviewed and to provide any was carried out during the year.
The controls framework through reports from additional comments they wished to make Committee considered the results of a the Finance Director, the Head of Internal in relation to the questions raised.
detailed questionnaire completed by each Audit and the external auditors.
In The Committee discussed the findings of the directors and those members of the particular the Committee considered the of the survey and their overall assessment senior management team who interact with scope and results of work of the internal of the work of the auditors.
Having done the internal audit department and discussed audit function, the findings of the external so, the Committee confirmed that it generally the work of the internal audit auditors in relation to the year end audit, was satisfied with the effectiveness of the department, the adequacy of resources the assessment of fraud risk carried out external audit process.
The Committee and the skills and capabilities of the internal by management, the controls over the will carry out a similar effectiveness audit team.
In order to benchmark the Companys financial consolidation and review in 2017 in relation to the audit internal audit department against best reporting system, the treasury controls, of the financial statements for the year practice, during 2016 the quality and the tax risks and the processes for ended 31 December 2016. effectiveness of the function was also setting strategic plans and budgets and externally assessed by the Chartered for monitoring the ongoing performance Institute of Internal Auditors.
Following Auditors re-appointment of the Company.
both of these assessments, the Committee In considering whether to recommend to the concluded that the internal audit function Board the appointment or re-appointment In relation to the risk management system, continued to be effective, efficient and of the external auditors, the Committee the Committee reviewed the process by appropriately resourced.
takes into account the tenure of the auditors which significant risks had been identified in addition to the results of its review of the by management and the Board, the key David Sleath effectiveness of the external auditors and controls and other processes designed Chairman of the Audit Committee considers whether there should be a full to manage and mitigate such risks and the 27 February 2017 tender process either as a result of that assurance provided by the internal audit review or as may be required by the relevant function, the external auditors and other regulations.
There are no contractual oversight from management and the Board.
obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
Internal audit The Company has an internal audit As previously reported, following a detailed department which comprises nine in-house tender process,  auditors, including the Head of Internal LLP PwC were first appointed as the Audit who reports jointly to me, in my Companys external auditors in 2014 to capacity as Chairman of the Audit replace KPMG Audit Plc who, together with Committee, and the Finance Director.
The their predecessor firms, had been the scope of work of the internal audit function external auditors since 1986. covers all systems and activities of the Group.
Work is prioritised according to the As a consequence of its satisfaction with the Companys risk profile with the annual audit results of its review of the external auditors plan being approved by the Committee each activities during the year, the Committee year.
Internal audit reports are regularly has again recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the re-appointment of 59
