Leadership and Governance Nomination Committee Report The membership of the committee is set out in the corporate governance statement and comprises a majority of non-executive directors: the Chief Executive is also a member of the committee.
The Nomination Committee Members and meetings in 2016 The role of the nomination committee includes: Cairn recognises that the role of its nomination committee, working together with the Board as a whole, is key to evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity promoting effective board succession and the alignment and independence on the Board: of board composition with the Companys culture, values supporting the process for Board appointments and making and strategy.
The Company reviewed the results of the recommendations to the Board in respect of new appointments: work undertaken by the Financial Reporting Council working with the Board to address any performance evaluation in 2015 and 2016 in relation to UK Board succession outcomes linked to Board succession planning: and planning and revisited the role of the Board and nomination oversight of the executive pipeline of talent beneath Board level.
committee in this context to ensure it remains appropriate.
Board changes The Company appointed two new non-executive directors during Member Meetings since attended 2015 and fully described the process for these appointments in last years Corporate Governance Statement.
Ian Tyler 05 14 Chairman During 2016, the Company commenced a search for one additional Simon Thomson 03 13 new non-executive director resulting in the appointment of Nicoletta Giadrossi in January 2017.
The Company instructed recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart in connection with this appointment.
Iain McLaren 03 13 Spencer Stuart provided independent advice and services to the Company throughout the search, including the preparation of both a long and short list of candidates for consideration by the Keith Lough 05 15 nominationcommittee.
Peter Kallos 09 15 All candidates on the short list were initially interviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive following which Nicoletta Giadrossi was selected as the preferred candidate.
Following selection and prior to her appointment, Nicoletta met individually with all other members of the Board and the Company Secretary in December 2016.
The feedback from these meetings was very positive, as a result of which the nomination committee recommended to the Board that Nicoletta be appointed as a non-executive director of the Company and the proposed appointment was unanimously approved by the Board.
Prior to her appointment, Nicoletta was given the opportunity to, and subsequently did, carry out due diligence on the Company.
She was also provided with the Companys induction pack for new directors further details of the Companys induction process are included in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 82 and 83.
Nicoletta was appointed on 10 January 2017 and also became a member of the remuneration committee with effect from that date.
She will seek re-election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2017.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 96 Succession planning and development of executive pipeline The nomination committee regularly evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
In so doing, the committee fully supports the principle that any new appointments to the Board should be made on merit, against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Board and nomination committee work together with the aim of maintaining a comprehensive succession plan for appointments to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Companys succession planning also includes contingency plans for the sudden or unexpected departure of executive directors and other senior managers.
The Board has also carefully considered the significance of succession planning and human resource management to the Companys strategy and will be annually reviewing this at Board level.
The key positions covered in our succession plan include the executive directors, regional directors and a number of other senior functional and technical managers.
The Board considered succession planning for each of the key positions, analysed any succession gaps or risks identified and considered how best to continue to develop the succession pipeline of executive talent.
As a result, the Board has a deep understanding of succession planning across the Company and the range of measures being used to continue to develop and recruit talented senior employees.
During 2016, the Boards review of succession planning covered an executive summary, a review of the process used by the Company for succession planning, key achievements since the previous review, analysis of the succession plan for each key position over various time horizons, an organisational capability assessment and health-check, and actions being undertaken to address any succession risks or challenges identified.
Diversity The nomination committee very much takes into account the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
Following the recent appointment of Nicoletta Giadrossi, the Company currently has two female non-executive directors representing 20% of total membership and the Board is very diverse in terms of the range of culture, nationality and international experience of its members.
The directors diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
The committee will further monitor and consider diversity for future Board appointments, whilst continuing to recruit on merit.
Beneath Board level, the Company also aims to develop and increase the number of women in senior management roles across the Group.
There is currently one woman on the Senior Leadership Team representing 14% of total membership and there are two women on the Management Team representing 20% of total membership.
The Company operates a range of measures which support diversity at Cairn, including succession planning, training and development, and flexible working policies.
The pipeline of younger talent within the Group is also diverse and bodes well for the future.
Board and committee performance evaluation The Board retains overall responsibility for implementation of its annual performance evaluation and the process and outcomes of the 2016 evaluation are described in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 81 and 82.
The process included a review of all Board committees and it was concluded that the relationship between the Board and its committees was functioning well, with all committees fully meeting their remit.
The nomination committee works together with the Board in seeking to address any performance evaluation outcomes relating to Board composition and succession planning.
IAN TYLER Chair of the nomination committee 7 March 2017 97
