Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder, At Cairn, we operate with integrity at all times, recognising that in doing Operating so the Company will maintain the trust of its many stakeholders.
We are committed to working responsibly as part of our strategy to deliver value for all stakeholders.
This means working in a safe and secure, as well as environmentally and socially responsible manner.
with integrity The Cairn Board is committed to promoting high standards of corporate governance and understands that an effective, challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the Company to deliver its at all levels, strategy in line with shareholders and other stakeholders long-term interests, whilst also generating confidence that the business is conducting itself in a responsible manner.
Further information on our governance, culture, strategy and business model and commitment at all times.
to working responsibly can be found in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
We are cognisant of the Financial Reporting Councils ongoing valuable work in relation to corporate culture and the important role of boards in influencing and shaping corporate culture.
As a relatively small but long established company with fewer than 250 employees, we have a culture based on acting responsibly at all times.
This means having the right values, principles and policies in place, that they are embedded throughout the organisation, and that the right people are in place to implement and uphold our values.
At Cairn, our culture is underpinned by a core set of values which reflect how we do business and the behaviours expected of our people.
We communicate these throughout the business as the three Rs, which stand for Building Respect, Nurturing Relationships and Acting Responsibly see below.
During the year the Board has also placed much focus on operational delivery and risk management.
An open and balanced review of our business performance has been covered in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 75.
During the year, the Board regularly discussed our strategic priorities, operational delivery and the associated key business risks and their ongoing management.
We provide further information on these activities on pages 34 to 47 of this report.
Our core values Building Nurturing Respect Relationships We build respect by communicating We work closely with our stakeholders openly with each other and our colleagues, local communities, contractors, stakeholders, listening effectively suppliers, governments, regulators, and providing feedback and non-governmental organisations, recognition in a constructive way.
Read more: Our Culture Read more: Our Culture 10 10 on P10-11 on P10-11 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 78 There has also been a continuing focus by both the Board and At Cairn, our culture is nomination committee in relation to succession planning throughout 2015 and 2016 and subsequently with the aim of assessing the underpinned by a core executive, non-executive and senior succession pipeline at Cairn, set of values which reflect and identifying what skills are needed to support our strategy and business for the long term.
This will continue to be a key area of how we do business and focus for the Board in future years.
I am delighted to report that we the behaviours expected have further strengthened and diversified our Board through the appointment of Nicoletta Giadrossi as an independent non-executive of our people.
We provide further information in relation to this appointment and our succession planning in the separate Nomination Committee Report on pages 96 and 97.
IAN TYLER Chairman 7 March 2017 Acting Responsibly We act with honesty and integrity to ensure all our operations are carried out safely and empower our people to achieve their goals and contribute to the wider performance of the business in a responsible manner.
Read more: Our Culture 10 on P10-11 79 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board As a company incorporated in the UK with a Premium Listing on Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, the London Stock Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is UK Corporate Governance Code as published by the Financial paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it Reporting Council and available on its website at www.
has wide experience of the industry and regulatory environment in This statement reports compliance with the version of the Code which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, operational and risk published in April 2016. management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the principles ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are and provisions set out in the Code and the Board is responsible for prerequisites for appointment.
This also applies to senior management ensuring that an appropriate framework is in place to do so.
appointments below Board level and to our succession planning.
The information in this statement, together with the audit committee Following the appointment of two non-executive directors in 2015 and report, nomination committee report and Directors Remuneration one new non-executive director in January 2017, the Board currently Report, describe the manner in which the Company has applied the comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and seven nonmain principles of governance set out in the Code and complied executive directors.
The current directors of the Company as at the with the individual Code provisions.
It is the Boards view that the date of this report are set out in the table opposite.
Further information Company has fully complied with the Code throughout 2016. about our directors is included in the Board of Directors section on pages 76 and 77.
Board diversity The mix in our membership.
Board diversity, by age years Board diversity, by nationality 55 6:4 average 40-54 55-60 61-70 British Other 4 3 3 Board diversity, by tenure years Board diversity, by gender 5.5 8:2 average 0-2 years 3-6 years 7-9 years 9 years M F 3 2 3 2 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 80 Date of Division of responsibilities between appointment Date of last Chairman and Chief Executive Name Role in current role re-election The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Simon Thomson Chief Executive July 2011 12 May 2016 Chairman and the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
James Smith Chief Financial May 2014 12 May 2016 Officer Chairman: key responsibilities Chief Executive: key responsibilities Ian Tyler Non-executive May 2014 12 May 2016 Leading the Board in an ethical Managing the business and Chairman manner and promoting effective proposing and developing the Board relationships.
Companys strategy and overall Todd Hunt Non-executive May 2003 12 May 2016 objectives in consultation with director Ensuring that the Board plays a the Board.
full and constructive part in the Iain McLaren Non-executive July 2008 12 May 2016 determination and development Driving the successful and director of the Companys strategy.
efficient achievement of Alexander Berger Non-executive May 2010 12 May 2016 the Companys KPIs and Building a well balanced Board, director strategic objectives.
considering Board composition Jackie Sheppard Non-executive May 2010 12 May 2016 and Board succession.
Leading the Senior Leadership director Team in ensuring the effective Ensuring the effectiveness of the implementation of decisions of Keith Lough Non-executive May 2015 12 May 2016 Board and individual directors.
the Board and its committees.
director Overseeing the annual Board Providing strong and coherent evaluation and acting on Peter Kallos Non-executive September 12 May 2016 leadership of the Company its results.
director 2015 and effectively communicating Ensuring appropriate induction Nicoletta Giadrossi Non-executive January N A the Companys culture, values and development programmes director 2017 and behaviours internally for directors.
Setting the Board agenda, The Company considers ongoing refreshment of the non-executive Engagement with shareholders chairing Board meetings and directors on the Board to be positive as it brings new thinking to the and other stakeholders.
overseeing implementation Company as well as ensuring there is a healthy level of independent of the Boards decisions.
challenge to management and that the Boards collective skills and Engagement with shareholders experience equip it to direct the Companys strategy and meet its and other stakeholders business needs as they evolve over time.
The Board is also mindful however that an appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective and those Senior independent director who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairns.
Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns senior independent non-executive Further information on succession planning at Cairn is included director.
The main responsibilities of the senior independent nonin the Nomination Committee Report on pages 96 and 97. executive director are as follows: Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as not only on gender but also on culture, nationality and experience.
an intermediary with other directors when necessary: The Board currently has two female non-executive directors and to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact continues to demonstrate diversity in a wider sense, with directors through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief from the Netherlands, the USA, Canada, and Italy as well as the UK, Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is bringing a range of domestic and international experience to the inappropriate: and Board.
The Boards diverse range of experience and expertise covers to meet with the other non-executive directors without the not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal Chairmans performance.
Further information on diversity within Cairn is included in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 96 and 97 Performance evaluation and in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that the performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to enhance overall Board effectiveness.
In 2015, the Company conducted its second externally facilitated Board evaluation the first was in 2012.
The 2015 evaluation resulted in some important recommendations for improving the Boards effectiveness, which have subsequently been implemented, including enhancements to Board papers and to the Board risk management process.
This year, in view of the externally facilitated evaluation carried out in 2015, it was agreed that an internal Board performance evaluation would be most beneficial to the Company.
The Chairman and Company Secretary subsequently discussed how best to facilitate this and it was decided that the Company Secretary should prepare a questionnaire for this purpose.
81 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The questionnaire was approved by the Chairman and this was questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges subsequently completed by all directors to evaluate the performance rigorously and dispassionately: of the Board, each of its committees, and individual Board members.
acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its A separate questionnaire in respect of the Chairmans performance shareholders and other stakeholders: was prepared by the Company Secretary and approved by the senior has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Companys business independent non-executive director.
and of the market as a whole which provides a solid background against which they can consider the Companys strategy objectively Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chairman held a series and help the executive directors develop proposals on strategy: and of one-to-one meetings with each of the directors in late November has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either and early December 2016 in order to discuss the outcomes of the directly or indirectly.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director met with the non-executive directors excluding Ian Tyler in order to Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive discuss and appraise the performance of the Chairman.
directors against these criteria, the Board concluded that all nonexecutive directors demonstrated each of the required competencies The main action points arising from the 2016 performance evaluation to a high level and are, therefore, each considered independent by include the following: the Board.
Key actions Implementation The Board recognises that, in view of the characteristics of Potential amendments to running Consideration will be given to independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, order of pre-Board and adjusting the running order of length of service is an important factor when considering the committee meetings pre-Board and Board committee independence of non-executive directors and that directors having meetings in order to maximise served for longer than nine years may not be considered independent.
The Board is however satisfied that Todd Hunts judgement has remained independent and that he has consistently displayed all of Consider ongoing requirement Consideration will be given the behaviours expected of our independent non-executive directors.
for Governance Committee to whether the Governance Moreover, the Board is of the view that Mr Hunt brings an extremely Committee continues to be valuable level of insight and challenge to Board discussions and that required as the Board and other his extensive industry experience continues to be of significant benefit committees are ensuring to the Company.
compliance with all relevant governance requirements.
Re-election of directors Enhancements to annual Board The Chairman has proposed In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the strategy session some amendments to the Companys directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
structure of this annual session As such, each of the directors will seek re-election at the AGM to be to facilitate a more focused held on 19 May 2017.
Board discussion of strategic goals and past performance.
Induction and development New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the As explained above, some improvements have been identified and Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members in particular have already been implemented or will be addressed during 2017. the Chairman, senior management and the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, new directors are provided with a comprehensive Following the Board performance evaluation process conducted in induction pack which contains a wide range of materials including: 2016, the Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively and that each director has performed well in Board Board papers and minutes of previous meetings: respect of that directors role on the Board and its committees.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board: Board believes that all of the directors performance continues to be financial delegations of authority: list of Board effective and that they each demonstrate commitment to their role.
and committee members and dates of appointment: and schedule of dates The executive directors also have their performance reviewed by for Board and committee meetings.
the remuneration committee against the Group KPIs which are set annually further details of the KPIs can be found in the KPI section Committees Terms of reference for all Board committees.
The 2016 bonuses payable to the executive Risk Terms of reference for Risk Management directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described further Committee and minutes of last meeting: in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 114 to 117 were linked current Group Risk Matrix and Risk Appetite directly to the Groups performance against these KPIs.
As the KPIs set Statement: FRC Guidance on Risk Management, out our strategic objectives, this ensures that executive performance is Internal Control and Related Financial and directly linked to Group strategy.
Independence of non-executive directors Key policies Group Corporate Responsibility Business The Board considers the independence of each of the non-executive Principles: Group Code of Business Ethics: directors on an ongoing basis, taking into account their integrity, their  ABC Management objectivity and their contribution to the Board and its committees.
System: ABC Business Partner Due Diligence The Board is of the view that the following behaviours are essential Procedure: Dealing Code: Procedures, Systems for a director to be considered independent: and Controls for Compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation, the Listing Rules and the provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and Organisation Group Structure Chart: latest Annual Report the other directors: and Accounts.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 82 Directors and officers liability insurance Governance UK Corporate Governance Code: all supporting The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
FRC Guidance: FRC Feedback Statement on UK Board Succession Planning and FRC Report Conflicts of interest Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards: GC100 The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance.
authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys Legal regulatory Memorandum for directors on their interests.
All directors are aware of the requirement to submit details to responsibilities and obligations as directors.
the Company Secretary or Deputy Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, Insurance Full details of directors and officers liability cover.
or potential conflict, of interest.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The Company also provides, on an ongoing basis, the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved of continuing professional development training for its directors.
The Board conducted an in-depth review of this 2016, the Company continued with its practice of providing a directors in 2015 and adopted an updated schedule of matters reserved education programme consisting of a number of seminars for Board which is divided into categories covering different types of decisions, members, which are presented by the Companys external advisers including: corporate: Board directors: financial operational: and guest speakers members of senior management, on subjects legal regulatory.
appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
During 2016, the subjects By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered covered by these seminars included: and or approved during 2016 and Q1 2017 were: Corporate Board Directors an expert-led session on general global economics and macroeconomic trends: The Companys 2015 Annual The appointment of a new a corporate governance and legal regulatory update delivered Report and Accounts and non-executive director by the Deputy Company Secretary: 2016 Half-Yearly Report a pre-implementation seminar on the requirements of the new The Companys 2016 Appointments to Market Abuse Regulation presented by Morgan Stanley: AGM circular Board committees an  update delivered by Pinsent Masons: The Companys Risk Detailed review of and Appetite Statement succession planning various asset presentations by senior management at pre-Board meetings further information on pre-Board meetings is included Financial Operational Legal Regulatory on page 84.
The appropriateness of the Oversight of the arbitration These seminars are held prior to Board meetings and are attended by Group going concern sign-off process seeking resolution all directors present at such meetings as well as the Chief Operating for the 2015 full year accounts of the Indian tax issue Officer and Director of Exploration the Company keeps a record of and 2016 interim accounts attendance.
Any director may request that a particular subject is The Companys Implementation of new policies covered in a seminar.
In addition, all media articles relating to the viability statement and procedures to comply with Company and all analyst reports relating to the Company are the Market Abuse Regulation distributed to all directors.
The Companys annual work programme and budget The Company also provided additional training and information for all of its PDMRs Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility Group Reserves and Resources regarding their revised obligations and responsibilities as a result The Companys HSE Policy of the implementation in July 2016 of the Market Abuse Regulation.
Selection of a mobile offshore Information and support drilling unit and well management The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to services for the 2016 2017 enable it to discharge its duties.
Under the direction of the Chairman, Senegal drilling programme the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information Approval of Group funding flows within the Board and its committees and between management strategy and related financing and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating induction and arrangements assisting with professional development as required.
The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of high-quality information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and information are In addition to the above, the Board conducts an annual review of delivered in a timely fashion.
Board and committee papers are the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls with ongoing delivered securely through an electronic platform.
monitoring of this throughout the year : an annual detailed strategy meeting: and an annual deep-dive session on risk management.
The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of corporate governance matters, and each director has access to the authority to ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company distinction between financial matters which require Board approval Secretary.
The governance committee also supports the Board in and those that can be delegated to senior management.
relation to corporate governance matters and further information on the role of this committee is provided on page 87.
The senior executive management structure at Board level and beneath remains unchanged from that disclosed in last years There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in corporate governance statement, with the Senior Leadership Team furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional SLT and Management Team MT continuing to play a key role in advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
83 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board and management committee structure oversee the Companys commitment to working responsibly: and review and approve the Companys Standard Operating Procedures.
Board of Directors The Exploration Leadership Team ELT, which is chaired by the Director of Exploration, comprises the Group Geoscience Manager, the Chief Geologist, the Chief Geophysicist, three regional Exploration Managers Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance and a representative from new ventures new business.
Committee Committee Committee Committee The ELT meets on a monthly basis to facilitate alignment, consistency, Risk Management Chief Executive best practice and teamwork in the following areas: Committee RMC ensuring exploration, appraisal and new venture opportunities Senior Leadership Team SLT align with the Companys Business Plan: ensuring consistent screening and ranking of exploration opportunities prior to detailed assessment, thereby utilising the Management Team MT significant knowledge and experience of the ELT: developing and implementing new geosciences technology and techniques where appropriate for application within the Company Exploration Leadership Team ELT to reduce subsurface uncertainty and or risks: and ensuring appropriate representation at resource assessment reviews and other internal subsurface peer reviews.
Further information on our Board committees is contained later in this statement and in the separate audit committee report, nomination committee report and directors Board meetings remuneration report.
During 2016, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with all of these meetings taking place over two consecutive days.
The first The SLT comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, day includes a Chief Executives lunch with the non-executive directors the Chief Operating Officer COO, the Director of Exploration, the and a Board education session followed by a pre-Board meeting Companys two Regional Directors and the General Manager, Senegal.
and a Board dinner in the evening.
The pre-Board meeting includes a The SLT is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets six times per year detailed presentation from senior management on key projects, assets with those meetings scheduled in advance of Board meetings.
or matters to be considered at the Board meeting and thereby provides an excellent opportunity for a technically rigorous discussion.
It also Key elements of the SLTs role include the following: allows the Board to more fully understand any risks or challenges to the business plan and strategy and allows exposure to talent within devise and generate the Companys strategy to be proposed to the the Company.
Board for approval and implement and communicate this strategy across the business: The Companys Board meetings are then held on the second day implement the business plan, the key performance indicators and and followed by a Board lunch.
Board committee meetings are annual work programme and budget following their approval by held on either the first or second day or, depending on the number the Board: of committee meetings required, on both days.
All Board committee consider business development and new venture projects prior meetings take place prior to the main Board meeting so that the chair to submitting these to the Board: and of each committee can provide a report to the Board.
provide leadership and guidance to the Company on vision, strategy, culture, corporate governance, corporate responsibility Three of the Board meetings during 2016 were held at the Companys and HSE matters.
registered office in Edinburgh, two were held at the Companys office in London and one was held at the Companys office in Stavanger.
Details The members of the SLT are also members of the RMC, which of attendance at each of those Board meetings, and at meetings of identifies and reviews key business risks further information each of the Board committees, are set out on page 86.
Any director on the role of the RMC is contained in the internal control section who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings is of this statement on page 89. given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing The MT comprises the COO chair, the Director of Exploration, the facilities are used in the unlikely event that directors are not able to Deputy Finance Director, two Regional Directors, the General Manager, attend meetings in person.
Senegal, and four functional managers Human Resources Manager, Legal Manager, HSE Manager and Business Development and New The annual timetable for Board and committee meetings is Ventures Manager.
discussed at least 18 months prior to its commencement allowing the directors to plan their time accordingly.
The Board and committees The MT meets formally six to nine times per year with four of those have agreed dates for all scheduled meetings in 2017 and 2018.
This meetings focusing on a quarterly performance review of the business.
process ensures that the Chairman can be comfortable that each director is able to devote sufficient time and resources to their role The key elements of the MTs role include the following: on the Board and, where relevant, its committees.
develop and implement a Business Plan, which will deliver the The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which Companys strategic objectives these will be reflected in annual regularly includes presentations from senior management, is set by the KPIs, including HSE : Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company critically assess and determine the mitigation plans for key business Secretary.
The system for establishing agenda items means that the risks and ensure that all risks are captured and reviewed regularly in Chairman, the Board and each of the board committees have the the Companys risk register: confidence that all required items are included on their agenda at coordinate operations and licence management along with the most appropriate time of the year and that there is sufficient resource allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely time allocated for discussion, allowing the directors to discharge and cost-effective delivery against approved budgets: their duties effectively.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 84 Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated The non-executives have a practice of meeting informally before and to all directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered after each Board meeting without executive directors being present.
for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the At these non-executive forums, the non-executive directors are invited Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the by the Chairman to bring forward any matter pertaining to the business Groups business.
There is also a procedure in place to allow Board of the Board that they believe would benefit from discussion in such meetings to be convened at short notice where required to deal with forum.
This practice also applies after Board committee meetings specific matters which need to be considered between scheduled in particular the audit, remuneration and nomination committees Board meetings.
to ensure that non-executive directors can discuss any relevant issues arising from those meetings without executive management being present.
Overseas Board Meetings A valuable opportunity for the Board to enhance its knowledge and understanding of the business by combining one meeting in the annual Board cycle with visits to overseas offices and site visits to key assets.
Senegal: December 2015 Stavanger: June 2016 The Board spent three days in Senegal in early December 2015 The Board spent two days in Stavanger in June 2016 in addition including an offshore visit to the drilling rig operating at that time.
to the Board and committee meetings held in the Stavanger The Board and committee meetings were held in the Dakar office, the Board held a half-day strategy session and had a office and the Board also met with a number of Senegalese detailed presentation on the Groups North Sea assets from government ministers at a reception hosted by the British the Stavanger management team.
Board visit to Ocean Rig Athena drill ship used during Cairns 2015 2016 Senegal drilling campaign.
85 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2016.
Board meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings held 1 during 2016 6 4 6 3 2 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Executive Directors 2 2 Simon Thomson Chief Executive n a n a n a 3 James Smith CFO n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 4 5 Ian Tyler Chairman n a Iain McLaren n a Senior Independent Director 6 Todd Hunt n a n a n a n a Alexander Berger n a n a Jackie Sheppard n a n a Keith Lough n a Peter Kallos n a n a Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
1 During 2016, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee and governance committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 Simon Thomson is not a member of the remuneration committee but attends its meetings by invitation other than parts of meetings where he would be conflicted.
Mr Thomson also attends part of each audit committee meeting by invitation to participate in discussions on risk and internal control only.
3 James Smith is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
4 Ian Tyler is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
5 Whilst Ian Tyler was unable to attend the first remuneration committee meeting held in 2016, he submitted detailed comments prior to the meeting to both the chair of the committee and the Chief Executive the meeting had been convened to consider one agenda item, namely performance against the Groups 2015 KPIs, 6 Todd Hunt is not a member of the remuneration committee but attends its meeting by invitation.
7 Nicoletta Giadrossi was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 10 January 2017 and did not attend any meetings during 2016.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 86 Board committees Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the Board committee structure remuneration committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 124.
Board of Directors Nomination committee The members of the nomination committee during the year were Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance as follows: Committee Committee Committee Committee Ian Tyler Chair : Iain McLaren: The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration Simon Thomson: committee, a nomination committee and a governance committee, Keith Lough: and each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
Peter Kallos Copies of the terms of reference, which satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, are available on the The nomination committee met three times in 2016.
and three of the Companys independent non-executive directors are members of the committee.
In addition, to ensure continuing executive Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources input on nomination matters, the Chief Executive is also a member of to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the audit committee, where the Deputy Company Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the Secretary undertakes this role.
The minutes of all committee meetings nomination committee is included in the separate Nomination are circulated to all directors.
Committee Report on pages 96 and 97.
In line with best practice, more detailed reports from the audit Governance committee and nomination committees are presented as separate reports on pages 91 to 97 rather than including these in the Corporate The members of the governance committee during the year were Governance Statement.
In addition, full details of the Companys as follows: remuneration policy are given in the separate Directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 124.
Jackie Sheppard Chair : Alexander Berger: Audit committee Ian Tyler: Keith Lough: and The members of the audit committee during the year were as follows: James Smith Iain McLaren Chair : The governance committee met twice in 2016 and is comprised of a Alexander Berger: and majority of non-executive directors.
In addition, to ensure continuing Keith Lough executive input on governance matters, the CFO is also a member of the committee.
The audit committee met four times during 2016 and currently comprises three independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman is The role of the governance committee includes: not a member of the committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the audit reviewing and approving changes to the Boards corporate committee is included in the Audit Committee Report on pages governance practices and policies: 91to95.
monitoring the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and Remuneration committee listing requirements: and The members of the remuneration committee during the year were reviewing developments in corporate governance generally as follows: and advising the Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance.
Jackie Sheppard Chair : Iain McLaren: Relations with shareholders Ian Tyler: and Communications with shareholders are given high priority by Peter Kallos the Board.
The Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding electronic communication with its The remuneration committee met six times during 2016 and currently shareholders, in order to give shareholders more choice and flexibility comprises four independent non-executive directors.
The Chief in how they receive information from the Company.
Cairn responds Executive is not a member of the committee but attends its meetings promptly to correspondence from shareholders and its website by invitation.
The committees remuneration advisers, New Bridge contains a wide range of information on the Company, including Street, also attended some of the committees meetings.
None of the a dedicated investor relations section.
members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an remuneration.
The committee has established a practice of meeting understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular informally without any executive directors or advisers present after dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with each committee meeting to allow the non-executives to discuss any executive management after the announcement of the year-end and matter which has arisen in the meeting or relating to the duties of half-yearly results.
The Chairman is available to attend a number of the committee which they believe would benefit from discussion these meetings.
The Board is kept informed of any issues raised by in such a forum.
shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and through feedback at pre-Board meetings and following results or other significant announcements.
87 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued AGM Details 2016 and 2017 Overview 2016 AGM: held on Thursday 12 May 2016 Full director attendance The Caledonian Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Edinburgh At least 96.79% of votes received for the re-election of all directors Highest votes in favour 99.99% for four resolutions Lowest votes in favour: 96.55% to approve 14 days notice of general meetings 2017 AGM: to be held on Friday 19 May 2017 Full director attendance expected The Caledonian Waldorf Astoria Hotel, New remuneration policy to be tabled for approval Edinburgh full details in Notice of AGM 18 Ordinary Resolutions and 4 Special Resolutions being proposed to shareholders In addition, the Company maintains an investor relations database Information pursuant to the Takeover Directive which details all meetings between the Company and its investors The Company has provided the additional information required or other related stakeholders.
All analyst reports relating to the by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing rules Company are also distributed to the Board.
and specifically the requirements of DTR 7.2.
6 in respect of directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control Directors Report on page 127.
The Company recognises that the of the Company in the Directors Report.
success of the comply-or-explain approach under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing and open dialogue Internal control with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating with The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which control, which includes all material controls, including financial, they wish to discuss in relation to the Companys governance.
operational and compliance controls and related risk management, and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal During 2016, the Company undertook a comprehensive programme control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks of engagement with a selection of Cairns larger institutional investors associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because and their representative bodies in order to understand their views of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, Cairns on a number of proposed changes to the Companys remuneration system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks to which arrangements.
Shareholders were given an early opportunity to raise it is exposed, with a focus on managing risk rather than eliminating any questions, and certain suggestions made by shareholders were risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not included in the final remuneration structure set out in the Directors absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control and Annual General Meeting AGM Assurance Framework the framework, which plays a critical role The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all of the risks relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and directors to attend the AGM.
Whilst this may not always be possible objectives are effectively controlled.
The framework is based on for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the chair the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations COSO framework and of each of the Board committees will be available to attend the AGM its five key components, which is a commonly used and recognised and be prepared to answer questions.
framework for considering internal control systems.
The COSO framework, which was first released in 1992 and updated in 2013, As part of our commitment to transparency we look to involve seeks to help organisations develop systems of internal control shareholders, as one of our key stakeholder groups, fully in the which help facilitate the achievement of business objectives and affairs of the Company and to give shareholders the opportunity improvements in Company performance.
The framework also at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys performance and supports organisations in adapting to increasingly complex business activities.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 19 May environments and managing risks to acceptable levels with the aim 2017 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is of safeguarding shareholders interests and Company assets.
contained in the shareholder circular posted with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Further explanation of each of the resolutions can The framework has been in place for the 2016 financial year and up also be found in the circular.
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board, supported by the audit committee, has carried out a review of the The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2016 and will will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available ensure that a similar review is performed in 2017.
In so doing, the Board following the meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on and audit committee took into account the assurance provided by the each resolution.
Both the Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness of the Groups system include a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable of internal control.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on controls are in place and that risks have been mitigated to a tolerable the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will level across the Group in 2016. not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 88 Cairn seeks to create value through oil and gas exploration and The executive directors continue to be supported by the SLT as well production while at the same time safeguarding the environment as by the MT and ELT.
Further information on the composition of these and respecting and contributing to the communities it is a part of.
In teams and their remit can be found earlier in this statement on page 84. order to achieve this, Cairns core values of building respect, nurturing There are also a number of functional department heads whose roles relationships and acting responsibly are at the core of the business, include providing expert input and challenge to the Companys work informing how the Company operates.
These values are promoted programmes, budgets and business plans: and supplying the directors to Cairns employees, partners and contractors.
Cairns licence to with full and accurate information with which to make statements on operate depends on transparent relationships and active stakeholder the adequacy of internal control.
engagement programmes with our many stakeholders including governments, communities, partners, shareholders and suppliers The Company refreshes its Business Plan, work programme and globally.
The directors believe that this commitment to strong budget on an annual basis in line with its overall strategy.
These governance generates trust and ensures consistent global standards documents start at asset level before being consolidated at regional and is critical to the Companys success.
The Business Plan sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional departments, and is Particular attention has been placed by the Companys management consolidated into the Companys strategic planning.
After an iterative during 2016 on ensuring that an effective system of internal control process, the annual Business Plan, work programme and associated has been maintained during the year in relation to the key risks in the budget are presented to the Board for approval.
Enhancements have been made during 2016 to the following key controls, business processes and procedures: The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement the Business Plan and to deliver the agreed work the Group developed a Cairn Operating Standards Manual of core programmes within the approved budget and delegations of business processes which outlines the Cairn way for executing key authority, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
The Manual was rolled out across the Group in 2015 and a further three chapters were added to it in 2016.
Risk Management the business standards became mandatory from Q1 2016: The Board is responsible for maintaining sound risk management and the suite of policies and procedures which form the Groups internal control systems across the Cairn Group.
The Board must satisfy Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS were itself that the significant risks faced by the Group are being managed enhanced to achieve continued alignment with the Cairn Operating appropriately and that the system of risk management and internal Standards and the latest International Association of Oil and Gas control is sufficiently robust to respond to internal or external changes Producers IOGP guidance.
This included the Group Code of in the Groups business environment.
Business Ethics and the Groups CR policies: the Group Risk Management Procedure was updated to incorporate The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk a number of recommendations from a recent risk management management strategy and processes within the Company and for audit and to include some emerging practices in risk management.
overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
The procedure was rolled out across the Group in Q1 2016: It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, the Group Business Continuity Plan was revised in 2016 to assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for determine if the existing business continuity recovery strategy purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place remained appropriate.
A test of the Business Continuity Plan is in relation to these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite planned for Q4 2017: and Statement agreed by the Board.
the Group plans to implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP solution to replace the existing Oracle e-business suite.
To supplement the role of the RMC, the Group Risk Management The aim of this project is to enhance levels of engagement and Procedure defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to compliance through the implementation of an intuitive system systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business interface.
This would provide a single global ERP platform for risks faced by the Group.
The Group Risk Management Procedure also Cairn, facilitating consistent, transparent processes in Edinburgh, identifies the risk management organisational structure through which Stavanger, Dakar and London.
business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and Company levels.
Asset, project, country and functional The following describes the key elements of the framework and the level risk registers are used to capture, assess, monitor and review risks processes used by the Board during 2016 to review the effectiveness before the principal risks are consolidated into the Group Risk Register.
of the system and the approach to be taken in 2017.
In 2016, risk management updates were presented at each Board 1.
Strategic Direction meeting and as part of an annual process, the Board undertook The Companys strategy and business plan are proposed by the SLT a strategic risk workshop which analysed the key threats and and approved by the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for opportunities which could impact on achievement of the Groups managing the Companys business and implementing the Companys strategic objectives.
This was completed in December 2016. strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and SLT.
The Chief Executive is also responsible for The RMC, which meets on a quarterly basis, was chaired by the CEO implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees and in 2016 and comprises the executive directors and senior functional driving performance against the Companys KPIs.
The internal auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management process.
Operating Management Regular MT risk meetings were also held during 2016 to manage and The Company operates three regional units covering different facilitate the assessment and treatment of business risks that may countries and assets and with various partners on both an operated affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
The assets within each region are the principal focus for our regional managers, who are tasked with delivering the strategic objectives for their particular region, with a combination of operational and technical teams as well as functional departments providing support to each of the assets.
The implementation of the Cairn Operating Standards supports this process, providing assurance, standards and consistency in the delivery of our strategic objectives.
89 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2016 control over non-operated joint venture activities through included the following: delegated representatives: specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and the Group Risk Appetite statement was reviewed and approved other key technical and commercial decisions: by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the current level of risk segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective: the Group is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives is business and financial reporting, including KPIs: appropriate: functional management reviews: the Group Risk Management Procedure was revised and rolled an annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and out across the Group in Q1 2016: and functional managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal a project was undertaken to review the merit of implementing a financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with risk solution to enhance the risk management system.
A number Company policies, and report any control weaknesses identified in of systems were evaluated and work continues on determining the the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified value of implementing a risk solution.
A final decision is expected in the prior year: in Q1 2017. a letter of assurance from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within the Company in line with its The RMC reports on the Companys risk profile to both the audit policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the committee and the Board.
Additionally, the audit committee and the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified Board receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls in the prior year: relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit reviews during 2016 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks committee and Board and is driven by risks and key controls: are effective.
reports from the audit committee and RMC: reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its 4.
Assurance statutory audit: The three lines of defence framework adopted by the Board provides reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of independent third party reviews: and all at the operational level: secondly through overview by functional the skills and experience of all employees.
management and the RMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
The integrated internal control and assurance framework document includes a description of the Companys business and assurance models and of its organisation and committee structure, and defines the relevant roles and responsibilities.
The framework defines the key policies and procedures which govern the way in which Cairn conducts its business and is therefore a core part of its system of internal control.
IAN TYLER During 2016, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys Chairman system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational 7 March 2017 and compliance controls, risk management and high-level internal control arrangements through the completion of internal control self-assessment questionnaires.
These questionnaires, which are tailored to each region or function, are designed to provide an internal assessment of the effectiveness of key controls for the Groups principal risks.
Additionally, assurance maps for the principal risks are being developed, which outline the key sources of assurance across the three lines of defence.
The three lines of defence model is a method of assessing different sources of assurance the Group can rely on when analysing key risks and controls.
Assurance is gained through the application of the business management system which directs the day-to-day running of the business first line, the oversight functions within Cairn which provide challenge to the risk and control environment second line and any third party reviews the Group instructs to assess the status of a risk control third line.
The assurance maps help identify potential areas of control weakness and or ineffective use of assurance resources across the Group, which has influenced the topics included in the 2017 Internal Audit Plan.
The Directors derived assurance from the following internal and external controls during 2016: a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 90
