Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Composition and summary of audit The Audit Committee committee meetings during the year The audit committee continued to support the Board in During the year under review, I served as Chair of the audit committee its responsibilities which include setting the Companys alongside two of my fellow non-executive directors: Alexander Berger strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into and Keith Lough.
Both Alexander and Keith are considered by the effect, supervising the management of the business and Board to be independent.
Ian Tyler also attended meetings in his reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
As part of capacity of Chairman of the Cairn Energy PLC Board.
this, the committees responsibilities include the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the effectiveness The members of the committee have been chosen to provide the wide of the Groups risk management and internal assurance range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these processes and related governance and compliance duties.
Keith and I are Chartered Accountants with recent and relevant matters, including assessment of going concern and financial experience.
Alexander brings comprehensive industry longer-term viability.
Member Meetings At our request, the CFO, the Chief Executive in his capacity of Chair Members and meetings in 2016 since attended of the Groups Risk Management Committee and senior members Iain McLaren 07 08 of the Finance and Risk and Compliance departments attended each Chairman of these meetings.
Additionally, both internal and external auditors also attended each meeting.
I also regularly met privately with the Alexander Berger 03 12 external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group throughout the year.
Keith Lough 05 15 The audit committee met four times in 2016, with meetings arranged around the key external reporting dates.
The first meeting in March 2016 focused on the 2015 year-end external audit process reported in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Meetings in June and August both centred on the Groups half-year reporting and a December meeting on planning for the 2016 year-end cycle and external audit process and internal work programme for 2017.
Subsequent to the year-end, a further meeting was held in March 2017 to conclude on the 2016 audit and significant issues.
At each meeting the committee receives an updated report from the external auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a forthcoming audit or review, or contains the conclusions from that audit or review.
The audit committee also monitors the internal audit process, tracking the progress of internal audits and reviewing their output and recommendations.
The audit committee also closely monitor Cairns Risk Management system, reviewing the activities of the Groups Risk Management Committee and the Groups risk management project plan with further review and challenge of the Groups risk registers and opportunity matrix at each committee meeting.
Other business covered by the committee includes the annual approval of corporate assumptions, the Groups policy on non-audit services and the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
FRC Corporate Reporting Review During the year the FRCs Conduct Committee raised a number of points on the Companys 2015 Annual Report.
The Committee has reviewed the correspondence between the Company and the FRC, noting that the Company has responded to all of the initial points raised.
The Committee are supportive of the Companys response to date.
As a result of the initial correspondence, additional disclosures are included in the 2016 financial statements in respect of the Groups oil and gas assets and segmental reporting.
The Committee also noted the Companys commitment to consider the need for further disclosures on the impact of climate change as appropriate.
The Committee is aware of continuing communication, with the FRC seeking additional detail on the Companys assessment on the impact of climate change and further clarification regarding the Groups taxdisclosures.
91 Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report continued Responsibilities and activities during the year The Terms of Reference of the committee take into account the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code and are available for inspection on the Groups website.
A summary of the committees principal responsibilities and activities during the year is set out below.
Principal responsibilities of the committee: Key areas formally discussed: Financial statements Monitoring the integrity of the financial Going concern conclusions and linkage statements of the Group and formal to the viability statement: announcements relating to the Groups significant accounting issues at the financial performance: interim and year-end see below : and reviewing any significant financial reporting approval of the Groups corporate judgements: and assumptions those impacting impairment reviewing the appropriateness of accounting testing are summarised in section 2 of the policies, their consistent application and financial statements.
External audit Overseeing the Groups relationship with Reviewing the external auditors scope the external auditors, including: and audit plan for the 2016 year-end: making recommendations to the Board discussing the materiality levels set by as to the appointment or reappointment the auditors: of the external auditors: approval of the auditors remuneration: reviewing their terms of engagement and consideration of the results of the external engagement for non-audit services: and audit with the auditors and management: and monitoring the external auditors assessment of the effectiveness of the independence, objectivity and external audit see below.
Internal risk management and assurance Reviewing the Groups internal financial Reviewing the Groups corporate and controls and internal control and risk operational risk register: management systems and oversight of the reviewing reports on the activities of the Groups Risk Management Committee: and Risk Management Committee: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness selection of internal audit work planned for of the Groups internal audit function.
2017 and consideration for future years: and assessment of key findings raised from internal audits conducted in the year.
Whistleblowing procedures Reviewing the Groups whistleblowing Reviewing and approving of the Groups procedures and ensuring that arrangements whistleblowing procedures.
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Other matters Reviewing the Groups policy for approval Classification of reserves and resources of non-audit work to the Companys for disclosure in the Annual Report.
auditors: and reviewing booking of Group reserves and resources.
The review of the Annual Report and Accounts for fair, balanced and understandable presentation and disclosure, while considered by the Audit Committee, is formally performed and approved by the full Cairn Energy PLC Board.
External audit The current edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Cairn not only adopted this policy but complied with this provision early and completed an external audit re-tendering process in 2013.
 LLP PwC were subsequently appointed as external auditor of the Group, on our recommendation.
The 2016 year-end audit therefore represents the fourth year of PwCs tenure as Group auditor.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 92 2016 year-end significant accounting issues The Groups ongoing focus on growing its significant Senegal resource base and on progressing its North Sea developments to first oil and cash flow in 2017 within a continuing low oil price environment provide the backdrop for the significant accounting issues that were reviewed by the committee during the year.
Carrying value of exploration assets Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions The committee reviewed the carrying value of the Groups exploration After challenging management, the committee are satisfied that and appraisal assets, challenging management where costs remain exploration costs remaining in the Groups exploration and appraisal capitalised for assets where no exploration drilling has taken place.
The committee also reviewed the exploration assets impairment tests The committee were satisfied that impairment tests performed by performed by management on the Groups key exploration assets in management were conducted in accordance with Cairns accounting the Senegal and UK & Norway regions, noting and challenging the policy, agreeing with the impairment charge recognised.
The committee key assumptions included within fair value models.
were satisfied that the Groups key corporate assumptions on which the impairment tests were based are appropriate.
Impairment testing on oil and gas assets and goodwill Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions The committee review and approve the Groups corporate The audit committee were satisfied that appropriate corporate assumptions set by management, which include short and long term assumptions were adopted by management, as key inputs into oil price.
In challenging those assumptions, the committee benchmark financial models used in the impairment calculations.
The committee against market trends, observed independently by the Groups auditors, continue to monitor these assumptions at each meeting.
The committee seeking assurance that the assumptions used by management are also were satisfied with the reserve volumes booked by management, comparable with those applied in the sector.
These assumptions are taking assurance from independent reserve reports which support key inputs into the impairment testing of the Groups oil and gas related managements approach.
As production nears on the Groups assets, which is the most significant accounting issue in the current year.
development assets, the committee were satisfied that commencement Further the committee consider asset specific assumptions applied by dates for production applied in the impairment models were consistent management in impairment models, including reserve volumes and with current expectations.
The committee were satisfied that the correct impairment charge was The committee reviewed managements conclusion on the recorded in the financial statements and that this was appropriately impairment test and the impairment subsequently recorded in disclosed by category of asset.
the income statement, seeking assurance from the auditors that impairment has been disclosed correctly between exploration and development assets and related goodwill.
Other recurring accounting issues There were two further material accounting issues where the audit committee challenged the judgement of management.
Indian taxation arbitration The audit committee continue to monitor progress in the ongoing arbitration with the Government of India.
In line with prior years, the committee were satisfied that no provision is required in the financial statements in relation to the Indian tax proceedings.
The committee support managements disclosure of this issue as a contingent liability.
Recognition of deferred tax assets on UK tax losses The audit committee examined managements conclusion that it remained inappropriate to recognise deferred tax assets at the balance sheet date.
The committee were satisfied that the approach management had taken to assess the likelihood of future profit available to offset tax losses was appropriate and that suitable sensitivity analysis had been performed to support managements conclusion.
Going concern and viability At each reporting date, management consider the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern see page 140.
The audit committee review and challenge managements conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that managements assessment has been considered, challenged and is appropriate.
Given the continuing low price environment facing the oil and gas industry, the audit committee carefully reviewed managements going concern conclusion based on the Groups latest net cash position and the forecast exploration and appraisal spend in the period ending 31 March 2018.
This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its work programme and firm commitments over this period.
The audit committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
With the viability statement now in its second year included on page 40, the audit committee took advice on how the Companys implementation of this new reporting requirement compared with other reporters and what improvements the Company could make in preparing the viability statement for the current Annual Report.
At the March 2017 meeting the committed reviewed and queried management on the sensitivity analysis prepared to support their conclusions reached.
Following this review, the committee recommended approval of the viability statement to the Board.
93 Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report continued Assessment of external audit process The committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
This comprises: Audit committee action Audit committee conclusion A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the The Committee agreed with the level of materiality set by the auditors.
auditors and the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas of audit focus summarised in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 129 to 133.
A review of the Audit Quality Inspection AQI Report on our auditors There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern for published by the Financial Reporting Council with particular emphasis the audit committee.
on those key messages applicable to Cairn.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement The audit committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues identified.
and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached.
The committee were satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made of management and that the audit process was robust.
Regular communications through formal papers submitted and The audit plan for the year ending 31 December 2016 was presented to presentations to the committee and meetings between myself as the audit committee in June 2016 and is summarised in the Independent Chair of the audit committee and the lead audit engagement partner.
Auditors Report on pages 129 to 133.
A formal questionnaire issued to all audit committee members and No matters of significance were reported.
senior Cairn management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of the auditors people and service.
Of particular focus for the Committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, identifying the risks to the financial statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement to the committee.
The audit committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be reported to the committee.
The final audit report was presented to the audit committee in March 2017.
After thorough discussion, the committee agreed with the conclusions that the auditors had reached noting the degree of judgement around the areas of significant audit risk.
Auditor independence and provision of non-audit services We have a long-established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Group will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Group and at a reasonable cost.
These advisers may include the Groups external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, Cairn must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
The Groups current policy for approval of non-audit services was reviewed and re-approved by the audit committee in December 2016.
Full details of the Groups policy can be found on the Companys website.
During the year, PwC provided other services including certification of the Groups EITI submission in Senegal and providing the accountants report on the circular requesting approval for the sell-down of the Groups holding in Cairn India Limited should the current restriction be lifted.
A full analysis of remuneration paid to the Groups external auditor in respect of both audit and non-audit work is provided in note 6.4 to the financial statements.
Internal audit Following a competitive tender process, Ernst & Young LLP EY were appointed as the Groups internal auditor with effect from July 2013.
Prior to the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audits, the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control refer to page 88, the results of historical audits of fundamental business processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The plan is then presented to the audit committee for review and approval.
The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the Group Risk Management Committee on the internal audit work plan.
The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend all committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meet separately with the internal auditors to discuss areas of common focus in developing their audit plan.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 94 Working responsibly whistleblowing and related policies The Group is committed to working responsibly as part of its strategy to deliver value for all stakeholders.
This means delivering value in a safe, secure, environmentally and socially responsible manner.
As part of this the audit committee is responsible for ensuring the Group has a robust Whistleblowing Policy in place.
This policy is reviewed regularly by the audit committee, with the last review in December 2016.
An independent review of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy and procedures was also undertaken earlier in 2016.
The committee is also responsible for and is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Group has in place a comprehensive  Management System and Code of Business Ethics.
During 2016 a Group wide initiative was undertaken to provide a training update to all employees and long-term contractors in addition to the training that is provided to all new staff joining the company.
Bespoke training was also provided to the Board during 2016.
As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is continued.
Further information regarding these policies can be found on the Groups website.
IAIN MCLAREN Chair of the audit committee 7 March 2017 95
