Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report Statement of compliance Caledonia recognises the importance The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and this report describes how the company has complied with The UK of good corporate governance, which Corporate Governance Code Code issued in September 2014 for the requires the board to consider the duration of the reporting period.
processes, controls and limits within The company has complied throughout the year with all of the provisions of the Code, other than provision D. 1.1. which requires that schemes for which the company should operate performance-related remuneration should include provisions that would enable the company to recover sums paid clawback or withhold any and define a working framework sums malus and specify the circumstances in which it would be that is clear and understandable to appropriate to do so.
As explained in the Directors remuneration report, malus provisions were introduced into Caledonias performance share everyone involved in the management scheme and deferred bonus plan in 2014 and were included in the directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the annual of the company.
general meeting in that year.
The provision in the Code requiring malus and clawback did not become operative until after the directors remuneration policy had been approved and the Remuneration Committee has been advised that it would be necessary to seek shareholder approval of a change in the remuneration policy for clawback provisions to be included in the companys incentive plans.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has resolved to incorporate clawback Membership and attendance provisions into Caledonias incentive plans as part of the next scheduled The board held nine scheduled meetings during the year.
Attendance remuneration policy renewal in 2017, in line with the GC100 guidance.
of the directors was as follows: A copy of the Code is available on the website of the Financial Reporting Meetings Meetings eligible Council at https: www.
uk Our-Work Publications CorporateDirector attended to attend Governance .
R D Kent 9 9 The board W P Wyatt 9 9 Overall responsibility and operation S A King 9 9 The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the J M B Cayzer-Colvin 9 9 company and for supervising its affairs.
It sets the companys strategy, H Y H Bol 8 9 ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place S J Bridges 8 9 to enable the company to meet its objectives and reviews management Hon C W Cayzer 8 9 performance.
It also defines the companys culture and sets the C H Gregson 9 9 companys values and standards to ensure that its obligations to its 1 S C R Jemmett-Page 6 6 shareholders and others are understood and met.
It aims to provide D C Stewart 8 9 leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective 2 R B Woods 9 9 controls, which enables risk to be assessed and appropriately managed.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed a director on 1 July 2015.
To assist its operation, the board has adopted a Schedule of Authorities 2.
Mr Woods retired from the board on 31 March 2016. which sets out those matters which it specifically reserves for its own decision and those which are delegated to board committees and to executive management.
Matters reserved for the boards own decision include the following: the appointment and removal of directors of the company, as prescribed by the companys articles of association, and of certain senior executive positions the terms of reference of board committees and the membership thereof the companys strategy annual budgets the companys systems of risk management and internal control treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty exposure limits directors remuneration and terms of appointment significant capital transactions charitable donations and political donations.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separated and clearly defined in the Schedule of Authorities.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board to ensure that it carries out its role effectively and for succession planning.
The Chief Executive is 28 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information responsible for the implementation of the boards strategy and policies Other committees and the management of the companys activities, other than those Various other committees have been established with responsibility for matters specifically reserved to the board.
The Schedule of Authorities specific areas of the companys activities, other than matters reserved is reviewed annually by the board.
to the board as a whole, as follows: The Administrative Committee of the board has been established to All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board meetings to deal with administrative matters of a routine nature requiring board enable them to discharge their duties and also have unlimited access approval or matters which are reserved to the board, but for which to senior management should further information be required.
board approval has already been given in principle.
The Administrative Presentations by investment pool managers and other senior executives Committee meets when required and comprises any two directors.
are regularly given to the board, as well as occasionally by senior executives of investee companies.
The Executive Committee meets when required and is responsible for matters relating to the day to day management of the companys Appointment, induction and training business, other than where delegated to other committees.
It is chaired The company complies with the recommendation of the Code that by the Chief Executive and other members comprise the Chairman, the all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital and the Company by shareholders.
Following changes in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules The Investment Management Committee meets fortnightly and introduced in 2014, the election of those directors determined by the considers matters relating to the companys investment portfolio and board to be independent under the Code must be subject to the approval monitors the companys cash requirements and its net asset value per of both all shareholders of the company and separately those share total return performance.
The Investment Management shareholders who are not controlling shareholders, being the Cayzer Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and other members family concert party.
comprise the entire investment team, the Company Secretary and the On appointment, new directors are offered induction and training Deputy Company Secretary.
considered appropriate by the board, and subsequently as necessary, The Investment Approvals Committee considers and formally approves and the annual performance evaluation of the board encompasses the new investments and proposed realisations.
This committee meets identification of any individual training needs of board members so that, when required, is chaired by the Chief Executive and other members if necessary, these can be reviewed by the Chairman with the directors comprise the Chairman, the executive directors, the heads of the pools concerned.
The directors receive briefings at board meetings on of capital and the Company Secretary.
regulatory and other issues relevant to the company and its business sector and, in addition, may attend external courses to assist in their The Compliance Committee meets weekly to monitor the companys professional development.
ongoing compliance with the requirements for investment trust status and to approve all investment activity from an investment trust Board composition compliance perspective.
It also monitors the potential impact of legal, The biographies of the directors appear on pages 26 and 27. tax and regulatory developments.
The Compliance Committee is The board currently comprises ten directors.
Excluding the Chairman, chaired by the Company Secretary and other members comprise the three of the directors are executive and six are non-executive.
The board Finance Director, the Heads of Tax, Treasury and Finance, the Group considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent, other than Financial Controller and the Deputy Company Secretary.
The Hon C W Cayzer, who was an executive director prior to becoming The Challenge Committee formally reviews valuations of all of the non-executive.
In assessing Mr Bols independence, the board took companys investments at each half-year and full-year.
It is chaired by account of his position as Chief Executive Officer of Sofina SA, whose the Chief Executive and other members comprise the Finance Director, wholly-owned subsidiary, Rebelco SA, has a 5.1% shareholding in the Head of Finance and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Bols position at Sofina has not given rise to any conflicts meetings are observed by representatives from KPMG LLP.
of interest and his circumstances very much accord with the importance that Caledonia attaches to its own executives having board positions at, Board performance evaluation or close contact with, investee companies.
The board conducts an annual evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and, in accordance with best practice, engages an Since August 2015, Mr Bridges has been Group Finance Director of ICAP, independent third party facilitator to assist in this process every three where Mr Gregson is non-executive Chairman.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the evaluation of the board consider that Mr Bridges role has any influence on either his, or as a whole and of its committees was undertaken internally, led by the Mr Gregsons, ability to exercise independent judgement in relation Chairman, and was conducted by inviting individual board members to to the affairs of Caledonia, which has no other connection with ICAP.
complete questionnaires regarding the operation and effectiveness of the Mrs Jemmett-Page was Caledonias audit partner at KPMG Audit Plc from board and its committees, the responses from which were collated by the November 1995 to March 2001.
The board does not consider that this Company Secretary and discussed at a special session of the board.
affects her independence given the length of time that has elapsed since The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the Senior this role ended and also the fact that none of the current board members, Independent Non-Executive Director and involved individual discussions other than The Hon Charles Cayzer, were in post whilst she was audit with other members of the board.
The Chairman considered the partner.
performance of the non-executive directors and that of the executive Board committees directors was reviewed by the Chairman and the non-executive directors, The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to the with the Chief Executive also present for the discussion on the other following standing committees the Nomination Committee, the Audit executive directors.
Committee, the Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Further details of the work of each of these committees and their membership during the year are set out on pages 31 to 49.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 29 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report continued The results of the 2016 evaluation process were presented in a report to Relations with controlling shareholders the board.
The conclusion was that the board operated in a cohesive and As at 18 May 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the constructive manner, with open debate and an appropriate level of publication of this annual report, the Cayzer family concert party Cayzer challenge to management proposals.
Actions identified to improve the Concert Party held 48.49% of Caledonias voting rights.
boards processes and effectiveness included the addition to each board Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, where a premium agenda of a formal list of outstanding action points carried forward from listed company has a controlling shareholder or shareholders being a previous meetings to ensure all are appropriately concluded, an explicit person or persons acting in concert who exercise or control 30% of more annual review and, if necessary, restatement of the boards risk appetite of the companys voting rights, the company is required to enter into and enhanced analysis of risk within each of the investment pools to a written and legally binding agreement which is intended to ensure that optimise returns.
It was also agreed that the board should undertake the controlling shareholder undertakes to comply with certain an annual review of business security, including cyber risk.
independence provisions, namely that: Directors conflicts of interest 1. tr ansactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and situation where he has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest which on normal commercial terms: conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 however allows directors of public companies to 2. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the articles of association any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts 3. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when the is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict application of the Listing Rules.
First, only independent directors, being those who have no The board confirms that agreements specified under the Listing Rules interest in the matter being considered, are able to take the relevant as described above which were required to be in place by 17 November decision and, second, in taking the decision, the directors must act in 2014 were entered into by the company on 30 October 2014 with a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote The Cayzer Trust Company Limited Cayzer Trust and separately with the success of the company.
The directors are able to impose time limits the Trustee of the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust or conditions when giving authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
Employee Share Trust, which is deemed by the Panel on Takeovers and The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements of the Mergers to form part of the Cayzer Concert Party.
Under the terms of its Companies Act 2006 in relation to directors conflicts of interest.
Each agreement, Cayzer Trust has undertaken to procure the compliance with new director on appointment is required to declare any potential conflict the independence provisions of all of the other members of the Cayzer situations, which may relate to him or her, or his or her connected Concert Party, other than the Employee Share Trust.
These are reviewed by the board and, if necessary, also by the The board confirms that, during the period under review and up to Governance Committee, which then considers whether these situations 18 May 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions to such authority of this annual report: should be attached.
1. the company has complied with the independence provisions included Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on conflicts of in the agreements with Cayzer Trust and the Employee Share Trust interest to ensure that all directors disclose any new potential conflict situations.
These are then reviewed, again if necessary also by the 2. so far as the company is aware, the independence provisions included Governance Committee, and authorised by the board as appropriate.
in the agreements have been complied with by Cayzer Trust and the A register of directors conflicts of interest is maintained by the Company Employee Share Trust Secretary and is reviewed annually by the Governance Committee.
3. s o far as the company is aware, the procurement obligation included Relations with shareholders in the agreement with Cayzer Trust has been complied with by that The company welcomes dialogue with investors in order to achieve a company.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly hold meetings with institutional investors, private client stockbrokers and fund managers.
The Chairman and other non-executive Rod Kent directors are also available to attend some of these meetings, if Chairman of the board requested.
Any views put forward by shareholders are reported back to the board, which periodically also receives presentations from the 19 May 2016 companys brokers on shareholder feedback and the general market perception of the company.
In addition, the annual general meeting provides a forum for shareholders to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
30 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
