Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee is responsible for the regular review of The Nomination Committee is focused the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the board and for giving consideration to on evaluating the directors and succession planning for directors and, if requested by the board, for other examining the skills and attributes senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external search consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board vacancies as and needed of board members.
It is also when they arise, for making recommendations to the board in relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership needs of the responsible for identifying suitable company, both executive and non-executive.
candidates for new director positions.
The Nomination Committee also reviews the time required of the non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside board meetings.
Diversity The boards policy on diversity is, as it has been in the past, to seek to appoint the best qualified person to a particular role regardless of gender or other diversity criteria and therefore it has not adopted any measureable objectives in relation thereto.
Work of the Nomination Committee Membership and attendance The Nomination Committee met twice during the year and the work The membership and attendance record of the Nomination Committee undertaken included: during the year was as follows: consideration of the contributions and effectiveness of the nonMeetings executive directors seeking election or re-election at the 2015 annual Meetings eligible attended to attend general meeting, prior to giving recommendations for their elections R D Kent Chairman 2 2 or re-elections.
H Y H Bol 1 2 S J Bridges 1 2 Hon C W Cayzer 2 2 Rod Kent C H Gregson 1 2 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 1 S C R Jemmett-Page 1 1 19 May 2016 D C Stewart 2 2 2 R B Woods 1 2 W P Wyatt 2 2 1.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed a member of the committee on 1 July 2015.
Mr Woods retired from the committee on 31 March 2016.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 31 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
