Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the The Audit Committee plays a financial statements of the company and any announcements relating thereto and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements significant role in ensuring that the contained therein.
In addition, it oversees the relationship with the companys financial statements are external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal control and risk management procedures and properly prepared and that the system considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
of controls that is in place is effective The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of independent nonexecutives directors, met three times in the year ended 31 March 2016, and appropriate.
in May and November 2015 and in March 2016.
Subsequent to the year end, it met in May 2016 to consider the significant issues in relation to the 2016 annual report.
The external auditor, KPMG, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and members of the finance team attend the meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other board members and or senior executives may also attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
At the end of each meeting, the Audit Committee has a separate discussion with the external auditor without executive management present.
Work of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee undertook the following activities in the discharge Membership and attendance of its responsibilities.
The membership and attendance record of the Audit Committee during the year was as follows: Financial statements The main focus of the meetings in May and November 2015 was the Meetings Meetings eligible 2015 annual report and financial statements and the 2015 half-year attended to attend results respectively, including evaluation of the going concern statements S J Bridges Chairman 3 3 therein.
H Y H Bol 2 3 The March 2016 meeting considered principally the audit planning for D C Stewart 3 3 the 2016 annual report, including in particular the requirements of the 2014 revision of The UK Corporate Governance Code and other disclosure requirements.
In its May 2016 meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the form and content of the 2016 annual report and financial statements.
In conducting its review, the Audit Committee considered reports prepared by management and the external auditor.
These reports provided an analytical review of the financial statements, comparing the current to prior year financial position and results, and detailed the judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty involved in applying the accounting policies to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also considered the going concern statement and the viability statement.
The Audit Committee recommended the 2016 annual report to the board.
The significant issues the Audit Committee considered in relation to the 2016 financial statements were the valuation of unlisted and listed investments.
In relation to these financial statements, the Audit Committee also considered the going concern statement, the viability statement and compliance with the annual report fair, balanced and understandable provisions of the 2014 revision of The UK Corporate Governance Code.
Unlisted valuations The Audit Committee recognises that unlisted investments are a significant component of the financial statements and that their valuation is subject to considerable judgement and uncertainty.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended the Challenge Committee meetings along with the external auditor and reported to the Audit Committee on the quality of the review, adherence to the companys valuation policy and consistency of valuation methodologies over time.
32 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Listed valuations Auditor Listed investments are a significant component of the financial The Audit Committee last conducted an audit tender process in mid-2011.
The Challenge Committee meetings referred to above also The main outcomes of the process were the replacement of Deloitte considered the listed securities, to ensure that the exchange bid prices who had been the companys auditor since 2006 with KPMG Audit Plc used in the valuation were from an actively traded market.
The Audit and a plan for the development of the external audit approach.
The Committee concurred that it was appropriate to use the exchange bid principal planned changes were to increase the depth of the audit by price in all cases.
At its request and for internal reasons, KPMG Audit Plc resigned as the companys auditor with effect from the Going concern and viability conclusion of the annual general meeting on 24 July 2013 and was The Audit Committee considered the funding needs of the company replaced by its immediate parent entity, KPMG LLP.
and its financial capacity, including available bank credit and liquid funds, Audit effectiveness to be wholly sufficient to confirm the going concern of the business.
Audit quality is reviewed continuously throughout the year by both The Audit Committee also assessed the viability of the company.
They the Finance Director and Audit Committee.
The focus is centred on the agreed to provide a viability statement for a period of three years for following: the reasons set out in the statement on page 51.
In May 2016, the Audit the quality and seniority of the auditors staff Committee conducted a series of stress tests that considered the impact of severe market downturn scenarios on shareholders funds, the debt the appropriateness of the planned audit methodology as applied facility, investment income and also the potential loss of investment to Caledonias business activity trust status.
The outcome of this activity led the Audit Committee to the level and challenge and quality of reporting to the Audit Committee.
recommend to the board to make the statement on page 51.
The effectiveness of the audit is also monitored throughout the year Fair, balanced and understandable statement using a number of measures, including but not limited to: The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual report and, taken as a whole, considered it to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit a review and approval of the scope of the planned audit Committee recommended to the board that the statement of directors the planned implementation of improvements following appropriate responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial post audit reviews statements, set out on page 53, should be signed accordingly.
the monitoring of the independence of the external auditor Internal control In the May and November meetings, a report on the internal control a review of any Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review reviews performed during the previous six months was presented, Report for KPMGs audit of the company together with an update on the controls assurance programme given discussion with the firms independent senior partner.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment and the structure in Non-audit work place to resolve identified weaknesses.
The control reviews included In order to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, the review of the US limited partnership investment structure.
No significant Audit Committee maintains a schedule of specific non-audit activities areas of weakness were identified.
The Audit Committee agreed the which may not be undertaken by the external auditor, within the broad control review work plan for 2016. principles that the external auditor should not audit its own work, should not make management decisions on behalf of the company, should not The board of directors is responsible for the companys system of be put into the role of advocate for the company and that no mutuality internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is of interest should be created between the company and the external designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve auditor.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Pre-approval of non-audit fees is required for non-audit fees exceeding a pre-determined threshold.
New subsidiary investments The Audit Committee recognised the increased regulatory risk associated Re-appointment of KPMG as auditor with the investments in the year in Seven Investment Management KPMG Audit Plc was appointed auditor in 2011 and was replaced by and Gala Bingo, both of which are regulated entities.
The company will KPMG LLP in 2013.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate every closely monitor the controls in place in these entities.
five years and other key audit partners every seven years.
No contractual obligations restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The Internal audit Audit Committee concluded that KPMG provides an effective audit and As the company does not have an internal audit function, the Audit the Audit Committee recommended to the board the re-appointment Committee considers annually whether there is a need for one.
company is an investment trust and manages its non-consolidated subsidiaries as other private company investments, expecting them Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the to operate their own risk management processes.
The company closely directors to determine the auditors remuneration, will be proposed monitors the control environment of its private company investments.
at the annual general meeting on 21 July 2016.
The Audit Committee recommended to the board that an internal audit function was not required.
Private meetings During the year, the Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately and privately with the Finance Director and KPMG.
Stuart Bridges Chairman of the Audit Committee 19 May 2016 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 33 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
