Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Other governance matters Dividends There have been no changes in the substantial interests notified to the An interim dividend of 14.3p per share 2015 13.8p was paid on company up to the date of this report.
7 January 2016 and a second interim dividend of 38.3p per share Employee share trust 2015 final dividend of 36.8p was paid on 1 April 2016, giving total The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires and holds dividends for the year of 52.6p per share 2015 50.6p.
The directors ordinary shares in the company for subsequent transfer to employees do not recommend the payment of a final dividend.
exercising options under the companys executive share option scheme Share capital structure and the performance share scheme or calling for awards vesting under The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares of 5p each the companys deferred bonus plan.
The voting rights of shares held and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
by the trust are exercisable by the independent trustee.
The trustee has waived all dividends payable in respect of the ordinary shares The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as held by the trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at At 31 March 2016, the trust held 245,097 ordinary shares.
All voting rights are however suspended in respect of any of the companys shares that are held in treasury or by Restrictions on voting rights group companies.
The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled to attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise any other right The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of the company redeemable.
They carry the right to a fixed cumulative preference in respect of some or all of the shares held by him, if he or any person dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any associated tax credit of the with an interest in such shares has been duly served with a notice under nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being 0.05p per share, or section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed 4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares currently in issue.
The company is period in supplying to the company the information required or, in required to pay the dividend to the extent that it has distributable profits.
purported compliance with such a notice, has made a statement which On a winding-up or other return of capital, the deferred ordinary shares is false or inadequate in a material particular.
carry the right to the payment of the amount paid up on such shares only after holders of the ordinary shares have received the sum of 100,000 Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares or in respect of each ordinary share.
All of the deferred ordinary shares are exercise of voting rights held by Sterling Industries Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
The company is not aware of any arrangements which may restrict the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any voting rights.
At 31 March 2016, 55,381,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares therefore represented Authority to allot and purchase shares approximately 87% and the deferred ordinary shares approximately 13% At the annual general meeting of the company held on 16 July 2015, of the total issued share capital by nominal value.
Of the ordinary shares shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot ordinary shares up in issue at 31 March 2016, 3,000 shares were held by a group company.
to a nominal amount of 923,016, representing approximately one-third As stated above, all voting rights are suspended on these shares.
The of the ordinary share capital then in issue, with authority to allot company did not purchase any of its ordinary shares the companys issued additional ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 923,017, representing share capital as at 18 May 2016, being the latest practicable date prior approximately a further one-third of the ordinary share capital then in issue, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, in accordance with to signature of these accounts, was 55,381,017 ordinary shares and guidance issued at that time by the Association of British Insurers.
directors were further authorised to issue ordinary shares up to a nominal Restrictions on the transfer of shares amount of 138,452 other than pro rata to existing ordinary shareholders.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the companys shares, These authorities last until 16 October 2016 or, if earlier, the conclusion although the articles of association contain provisions whereby the of the next annual general meeting.
directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings in the At the annual general meeting held on 16 July 2015, shareholders also share from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may granted authority for the company to make market purchases of up to also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is a 5,538,100 of its own ordinary shares, being approximately 10% of the lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office or at such other place as the ordinary share capital then in issue, at a price not more than the higher directors may appoint, accompanied by the certificate for the shares to of a 5% greater than the average of the middle market quotations for which it relates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably such ordinary shares during the five business days preceding any such require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b in purchase: and b the higher of i the price of the last independent trade respect of only one class of shares: and c in favour of not more than in such ordinary shares: and ii the highest current independent bid four transferees.
relating thereto on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, nor at a price less than 5p, being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a shareholder This authority lasts until 16 October 2016 or, if earlier, the conclusion of has not supplied information to the company in default of a request duly the next annual general meeting.
At the same time, shareholders who served under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and such shares were not members of the Cayzer family concert party Cayzer Concert represent at least 0.25% of the class of shares concerned.
Party gave their approval for a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers of the obligation that could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party Substantial interests under Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make a As at 31 March 2016, the following had notified the company that they general offer for Caledonia on the implementation by the company of the held 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: above authority to purchase its own shares.
The approval was subject to Number Percentage the maximum percentage of voting rights in which the Cayzer Concert of voting of voting Party is interested not exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by the rights rights company.
This waiver expires on 16 October 2016 or, if earlier, the The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,671,536 35.5% conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
Rebelco SA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sofina SA.
50 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Change of control rights Customers and suppliers There are no special control rights in relation to the companys shares.
The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
The group will Options granted under the companys executive share option scheme abide by those terms on condition that it is satisfied that the supplier and its performance share scheme and awards made under its deferred has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms bonus plan may become exercisable or vest as a result of a change of and conditions.
The group does not follow any code or statement on control, although the number of shares comprised in those options or payment practice.
The service contracts of certain directors and other senior executives also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum Going concern is payable by the company in the event of termination within one year The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect following a change of control.
its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans and Chief Executives report on pages 2 to 6 and the Further details of these change of control rights are set out in the investment review on pages 10 to 17.
The financial position of the group, directors remuneration report.
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 18 and 19.
In addition, note 22 to the Investment trust status financial statements includes the groups capital management policies Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has confirmed that Caledonia and procedures and processes for managing market risk and exposures has investment trust status for all financial periods from 1 April 2012. to currency risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Annual general meeting The group has cash and other liquid resources and committed bank The eighty-seventh annual general meeting of the company will be facilities available to meet existing and new investment commitments.
held at the Royal Over-Seas League, Park Place, St Jamess Street, As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed London SW1A 1LR on Thursday, 21 July 2016 at 11.30 am.
The notice to manage business risks successfully.
of the annual general meeting and details of all of the resolutions to be put to shareholders are set out in a separate circular sent to shareholders The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate at the same time as this annual report.
resources to continue in operational existence for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Directors Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The directors of the company are shown on pages 26 and 27.
All of the the annual report and accounts.
directors served throughout the year, other than Mrs S C R Jemmett-Page who was appointed on 1 July 2015.
In addition, Mr R B Woods served Viability statement as a director until his retirement from the board on 31 March 2016.
The directors have assessed the viability of the company over the three years to March 2019, taking account of the companys position, its Directors indemnity investment strategy, and the potential impact of the relevant principal Each of the directors has the benefit, under the companys articles of risks set out on pages 21 to 23.
In making this statement, the board association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies is satisfied that the company operates an effective risk management Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him or her for negligence, process and confirms that it has conducted a robust assessment of default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the principal risks facing the company.
This includes those that would the company.
threaten its strategic objectives, its business as usual state, its business Appointment and removal of directors and the articles model, and its future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Based on of association this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the The appointment and removal of directors is governed by the companys company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities articles of association and prevailing company law.
as they fall due over the period to March 2019.
The articles of association provide that at every annual general meeting In making this assessment, the directors took comfort from the results one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, the number of a series of stress tests that considered the impact of a number of nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and therefore be required to severe market downturn scenarios and loss of investment trust status seek re-election by shareholders.
New directors may be appointed by the on the companys financial position and, in particular, its ability to board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the next annual settle projected liabilities of the company as they fall due.
The directors general meeting of the company following their appointment.
However, determined that a three year period to March 2019 is an appropriate to comply with the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code, the period for which to provide this statement given the companys long term company requires that all directors should be subject to annual election investment objective and the resilience demonstrated by the stress by shareholders.
Shareholders may also appoint new directors by testing and the relatively low working capital requirements.
The articles of association limit the number of Auditor directors to not less than two and not more than twelve, unless the Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to re-appoint shareholders resolve otherwise.
KPMG LLP as auditor of the company and to authorise the directors In accordance with changes to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing to agree the auditors remuneration.
A description of how the Audit Rules introduced in May 2014, the election of those directors determined Committee ensures the objectivity and independence of the auditor by the board to be independent under The UK Corporate Governance is set out on page 33 within the Audit Committee report.
Code must be subject to the approval of both all shareholders of the company and separately those shareholders who are not controlling shareholders, being the Cayzer Concert Party.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 51 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Other governance matters continued Cross references to information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. To comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 C, the following table provides references to where relevant information required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
Listing Rule Required information Location 9.8.
4 R 5 Details of any arrangements under which a director has waived Directors remuneration report page 45.
Waiver by Mr Bol or agreed to waive any emoluments from the company or any of all non-executive director fees to which he would otherwise subsidiary undertaking.
4 R 6 Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details As above.
of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
4 R 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has Other governance matters page 50.
Waiver of all dividends waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
by the trustee of the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
6 R 13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, As above.
details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
4 R 14 a A statement made by the board that the listed company has Corporate governance report page 30.
Relations with entered into an agreement with a controlling shareholder controlling shareholders.
4 R 14 c A statement made by the board that: As above.
1. the listed company has complied with the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a 2. so far as the listed company is aware, the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a have been complied with during the period under review by the controlling shareholder or any of its associates 3. so far as the listed company is aware, the procurement obligation as set out in Listing Rule 9.2.
2 BR 2 a included in any agreement entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a has been complied with during the period under review by a controlling shareholder.
52 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
