78 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts NOMINATION COMMITTEE Members: Committee activities during 2016 Sir Ian Powell Key responsibilities Chair from 1 January 2017 To identify and nominate appropriate Gillian Sheldon Chair during 2016 candidates for appointment to Paul Bowtell the Board, having due regard to the provisions of the Code and, Andrew Williams in particular, the balance of skills, John Cresswell knowledge and experience on the Board The Group Company Secretary acts and the diversity of its composition.
as Secretary to the Committee and To keep the structure and size of the is available to assist the members of Board and the leadership needs of SIR IAN POWELL the Committee as required, ensuring CHAIR, NOMINATION COMMITTEE the organisation under review and that timely and accurate information is ensure that plans are in place for distributed accordingly.
orderly succession and appointment to the Board.
The Committee met eight times in 2016 and the attendance is shown on page 77.
To review the time commitment I am pleased to present the report required from Non-Executive Directors, on the activities of the Nomination The Committee reports and makes the performance of Directors and Committee for the year to recommendations to the Board in all declarations of interest made by 31 December 2016.
Set out below is relation to its activities and deliberations.
a summary of the work carried out It is authorised under its terms of To consider Capitas diversity position.
reference to obtain the advice of independent search consultants.
The Activity in 2016 terms of reference for the Nomination Succession planning for the Committee can be found on Capitas Board generally website at www.
Recruitment and appointment These were reviewed and updated during of Chairman the year.
Recruitment and appointment of new Audit and Risk Chair Board diversity In 2016, 22% of our senior management Appointment of Chris Sellers as team and 20% of our Board were female.
an Executive Director to succeed Capita sees significant business benefit Maggi Bell in having access to the diversity of Consideration of the performance of all thinking that comes from people with a Directors, length of service, interests wide range of backgrounds at all levels and potential conicts to ensure that all in the Company.
Only by encouraging Directors could stand for re-election or this diversity and by fostering talent election at the AGM throughout the business can the Diversity of the Board Company expect to achieve further Conicts of Interests considered diversity in senior management.
Capita for the independence of the Nonhas a network of diversity champions Executive Directors across the businesses and the Companys training and mentoring initiatives For all the appointments to the Board actively support the fostering of talent the Committee considered the size and at all levels in the business across the structure of the Board and the balance Companys diverse workforce.
The and range of the Directors knowledge Board and senior management teams and experience across Capita are fully committed to External search agencies were working to provide an environment used for the Non-Executive and where everyone has the opportunity to Chairman appointments full their potential.
The Company will Discussed and approved the resignation continue to appoint and promote people of Dawn Marriott-Sims.
The external on merit and in line with the skills and search agencies used Spencer Stuart attributes identied for each post while for the Chairman and Lygon Group for striving to increase diversity at the Board the Audit and Risk Committee Chair level during 2017.
Further information is do not have any other connection with shown on page 57 of the strategic report.
