46 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE A key element in Capitas business model is the approach we take to supporting and controlling growth.
Clear policies, procedures and robust systems are embedded across finance, operations, governance and risk management, led by a strong management team.
This straightforward reporting structure We therefore expect all levels of Principal risks and controls and culture of collaboration promotes management to understand and execute Appropriate controls and risk knowledge sharing, encourages their responsibility for the performance management entrepreneurship and ensures the quality of their business, for appropriate risk The application of appropriate controls of service delivery for Capitas clients.
management and for the identication across all of our businesses is a core part and actioning of market opportunities.
We seek to set Ensuring transparency in a clear policies for our businesses to follow growing business Our focus for 2016 has been on and to embed the right processes, Capita has continued to grow across enhancing the maturity of the risk reporting and culture across Capita.
new business sectors, jurisdictions and management framework introduced in regulatory footprints, all within the 2014.
Further strengthening accountable Managing business operations and Boards risk appetite.
Each new contract risk ownership, quality assurance of the risk through effective controls won and acquisition completed can risk process and alignment of operational Managing our business widen the scrutiny of our operations and corporate level risk.
Capitas clear management structure by significant stakeholders.
This can and strong governance procedures help include regulatory bodies, parliamentary promote accountability across its business.
and local government oversight, end-user stakeholders as well as our private Financial, operational and key risk sector clients.
reporting is built into the Monthly Operating Board MOB reviews which In recognition of the valid interests of report upwards from each business unit, these stakeholders, we operate a risk ultimately to the Board Executive management framework that requires Directors.
More informal collaboration direct scrutiny of the knock-on effect to is also encouraged through day-to-day external parties.
In this way we can deliver reporting, team working mechanisms to both our shareholders and stakeholders.
RISK, COMPLIANCE AND INTERNAL AUDIT INDEPENDENT REPORT AUDIT AND RISK DIRECT REPORT GROUP RISK AND COMMITTEE COMPLIANCE AND CHAIR DIRECTOR GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT DIRECTOR CAPITA PLC CHAIRMAN Direct report Independent report
