Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Ian Durant, Chairman of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2016 Nomination Andrew Strang, Henry Staunton and Graeme Gordon, who Committee Report.
have each served on the Board for more than six years, will be seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In recommending During 2016 the Committees main task was to oversee the that each of these Directors be reappointed, the Nomination recruitment of a new Chief Financial Officer to succeed Soumen Committee carefully consideredthe continued contribution Das.
In line with the Committees policy on Board succession that each Director makes to the Board, as well as the balance a rigorous selection process was followed, with a number of of independence and overall Board composition.
internal and external candidates being considered for the position.
I am pleased that Situl Jobanputras appointment Finally, the Committee has reviewed the Boards diversity reflects Capcos commitment to developing the talent of policy and disclosures.
The Committee was satisfied that the our employees and promoting from within the Company policy did not need to be updated, however, we have included where possible.
more information on the Companys approach to diversity both in this report andthe CR Report.
In addition to Situl, in March 2016 we welcomed Anthony Steains to the Board.
The Committee ensured that appropriate Board inductions were provided to each new Director.
The Committee also continued to consider Board composition to ensure that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategy.
As I have Ian Durant previously reported, we are seeking to appoint an additional Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 21 February 2017 Non-executive Director with property expertise.
However, a suitable candidate who is free to take up an appointment has Members: not yet been found.
The Committee is satisfied that there is Ian Durant Chairman currently no urgency in making the appointment and so will Ian Hawksworth Henry Staunton continue the search.
A recommendation will be made to the Gerry Murphy Anthony Steains Board as and when an appropriate candidate is found.
Demetra Pinsent Andrew Strang MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE DURING 2016 INCLUDE: Board and Committee composition, including diversity Board evaluation Appointment of new CFO Directorsskills, experience and independence Non-executive Director recruitment Directors time commitments Succession planning Committee terms of reference www.
com 67 Nomination Committee report continued DIRECTOR RECRUITMENT PROCESS Nomination Committee considers Board composition and determines desired skills and experience A person specification is prepared A shortlist of executive search firms is prepared and a selection process followed A list of candidates is identified The Chairman and Chief Executive meet with short-listed candidates and provide feedback to the Committee All Directors, the General Counsel and the Company Secretary are given the opportunity to meet the preferred candidate The Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board The Nomination Committee has responsibility for making Non-executive Directors: recommendations on Board appointments and succession to As reported in previous years, following a full review of the skills, the Board.
experience, independence and knowledge of Board members, the Committee had agreed to seek two new Non-executive The members of the Committee as at 31 December 2016 and Directors, of whom at least one should have specific property the date of this report are listed in the box on the previous page.
As a result of this review Anthony Steains joined the The Nomination Committee met five times during the year, and Board in 2016.
During the year the Committee continued to attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 63. consider potential candidates, however at this time it has been Board composition and succession unable to identify an appropriately qualified candidate who is free The Committee regularly considers Board composition and of conflicts of interest.
The Committee is satisfied that the Board succession planning for both Executive and Non-executive currently has sufficient property expertise, and will therefore Directors.
In considering Executive Director succession, the Boards continue to consider potential candidates, and recommend an strategy is to consider both internal and external candidates, whilst appointment, when an opportunity arises.
aiming to develop a choice of internal potential successors.
The Director induction focus of Non-executive Director succession planning is to ensure An induction programme is provided for each new Director, that the Board and its Committees continue to have the right mix which is tailored depending on the Directors experience and of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategy.
A summary of expected role on the Board.
A typical induction programme for Directors core areas of experience as at the date of this report is a Capco Non-executive Director will include individual meetings shown in the figure to the right.
Board succession and composition with the Chairman, Executive Directors, General Counsel, will continue to be considered at Committee meetings during 2017, Company Secretary and members of senior management, site and the Committee will make recommendations to the Board visits to Capcos estates, and an introduction by the Chairman to where appropriate.
the Companys brokers, advisers and lawyers.
The Director is also Director recruitment provided with copies of past Board and Committee papers and Capco operates a rigorous and transparent recruitment process for minutes, and individual briefings are arranged on topics such new Directors which is summarised above.
Information about the as Directors duties and responsibilities and the property market.
Committees activities in this area during the year is given below.
A tailored Board induction was provided to Situl Jobanputra on his promotion to the Board.
Chief Financial Officer: Following Soumen Das decision to leave Capco, a rigorous internal Director development and external search was undertaken to identify appropriate The Chairman and the Committee together ensure that Directors candidates to succeed him.
The Zygos Partnership, which provides keep their skills and knowledge up to date to allow them to fulfil no other services to the Group, was engaged to assist with the their roles on the Board and Board Committees.
To ensure that the long-list of candidates reflected Counsel and Company Secretary regularly update the Board diversity of both gender and skills, a broad brief was provided to on legal and corporate governance matters, and information on the Zygos Partnership.
Following an interview process led by the training opportunities and seminars is circulated to Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive with the assistance of the Chairman The Company also arranges periodic briefings from external of the Audit Committee, it was recommended to the Committee advisers, and Directors receive regular business updates from the that Situl Jobanputra be appointed as Chief Financial Officer of Executive Directors.
Directors may also take independent advice the Company.
After thorough consideration, the Committee made at the Companys expense where they feel this is appropriate.
a formal recommendation of the appointment to the Board.
68 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Diversity Directors core areas of experience: Diversity is important to Capco and the Board recognises the business benefits that the experience of a diverse Board and workforce can bring.
The Committee regularly reviews the Board Diversity Policy to ensure it aligns with the Committees aim of ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategy.
Capco currently has one female Director which does not meet the Hampton-Alexander Reviewtarget for women on boards or reflect the diversity within the Company.
However, the Board remains committed to encouraging diversity, and although the Board does not feel that it would be appropriate to set targets on gender diversity as all appointments must be made on merit, diversity will continue to be considered in a broad context when evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience desirable to fill each Property 36% Board vacancy.
Finance 36% The Company supports a number of initiatives to promote diversity Consumer 21% within the property industry, including the RICS Inclusive Employer & Retail Quality Mark and working with peer companies to promote diversity and equal opportunities.
We are keen to develop female talent Luxury Goods 7% across the business, and provide mentoring to management.
We are proud that the ratio of women to men within Capcos senior Both Executive and Non-executive management team is 1:1.
Some Directors are represented in more than one category.
Please refer to pages 49 and 50of the Corporate Responsibility Report for more information on Capcos people practices, and on our Community initiatives which promote diversity.
