64 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The new and extended major contracts Chairmans report secured in 2016 were positive and are I am pleased to present this report on the detailed within the strategic report.
work of the Capita Board during 2016, We enter 2017 with a strong pipeline formed of this section pages 6470 and of major sales opportunities and a the section headed Other statutory and reshaped and highly focused business regulatory information pages 7175. development team working both on Although 2016 has been a challenging these deals and on increasing the success year, the Board has continued to pursue of our divisional sales teams.
the highest standard of corporate See page 16 for more information.
governance with the intent to uphold the highest standards of business SIR IAN POWELL Board activities in 2016 practice.
However, I believe that there NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN The Board has a standing schedule to are a number of areas in which we can meet nine times a year and holds further continue to improve particularly in meetings as required, operating with respect of Capitas diversity agenda.
As an open culture in line with Capitas an organisation of 73,000 people and own values and behaviours.
We adopt a one of the UKs largest employers, we structured approach when setting Board must ensure that Capita has leading edge and committee meetings, which are people and incentivisation strategies to aligned with the financial calendar of our empower and encourage our people to Company.
We set an agenda to cover the have equal opportunities to maximise wide range of matters that are brought and full their potential.
to our attention, ensuring each is given As part of the challenges we have appropriate time and focus.
faced, governance must work within Some additional meetings took place the structure of a whole organisation, during the later part of 2016 to deal with without being overly cumbersome.
The the challenging trading conditions facing balance struck across Capita is greatly Capita, focusing on these conditions and assisted by the transparent culture.
The the strategic direction that needed to be changes to the operational structure taken to move forward in 2017. will further assist our work in this area and ensure oversight and transparency Divisional senior management consistently across the entire business.
Following a strategic review of the operations of our business, we Results for 2016 restructured the divisions into six In Andy Parkers report on pages 814 divisions from the previous 11.
We we have detailed the results for the continue to review the structures of our year.
It has been a challenging year for businesses and management and ensure the Group and the Board, and all Capita that these are in line with our strategy people were disappointed to have for organic growth.
These are detailed failed to deliver our expected profit further on pages 3444. for the year.
We have announced our intention to sell the majority of our Asset Services division and some other non-core businesses.
We are on track to complete these in 2017.
