88 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Tracking key security metrics.
Group Security Risk Committee Established at the beginning of 2015, the Tracking key IT and security Committee normally meets quarterly changes impacting on the Groups to ensure the security control functions business operations.
remain adequately resourced to deliver Providing support to Group security effective security for Capita.
It was resources in implementing Group chaired by Alex Cutler, Chief Information security policy.
officer, until he left Capita in November Ensuring organisational functions, 2016.
Chris Terry, Group Risk and resources and supporting infrastructure Compliance Director, is acting as interim are available and properly utilised to Chair of the Committee until a new Chief full the Group security strategy and Information officer is appointed.
The Committee met three times in 2016.
Ensure roles and responsibilities include Due to the timing of meetings during the risk management in all activities.
year and certain other factors, a fourth Providing direction on issues escalated meeting was not necessary.
Membership from the Information Security Steering and attendance was as follows: Group and IT Directors Steering Group.
Number of Implementing comprehensive oversight Name of member meetings attended via audit to ensure ongoing compliance 1 Alex Cutler Chair 3 with security baseline requirements.
Nick Greatorex 3 Identifying items for the attention of Dawn Marriott-Sims 2 the Board or Audit and Risk Committee.
Vic Gysin 2 2 Review of Risk Committees Chris Terry 3 The scope and purpose of these three 1 A lex Cutler Chief Information officer until committees will be reviewed during 2017 November 2016. and further disclosure will be provided in 2 Chris Terry Group Risk and Compliance Director.
All Non-Executive Directors and the Group Internal Audit Director have an open invitation to attend these meetings.
The primary functions of the Committee are: Ensuring alignment of information security activities with business objectives.
Dening the information security baseline policies to integrate security activities with business objectives.
Communicating Group security strategy and policy mandate to Divisional and business management.
Monitoring information security legislative and regulatory compliance.
