67 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED from the Financial Reporting Councils Compliance with the Financial website www.
Throughout Reporting Councils UK Corporate the accounting period to which this Governance Code report relates, the Company complied Capita plc and its subsidiaries the Group with all relevant provisions set out in remain committed to maintaining high sections A to E of the Codes except as standards of corporate governance.
detailed below: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
A copy of the Code is available Code provision Area of non-compliance Position during 2016 Position at 1 January 2017 B.
1.2 During part of the From 1 January to 31 August the balance As at 1 January 2017 the Composition period the Board had an was five Executive Directors, four balance was four Executive of the Board imbalance of Executive Independent Non-Executive Directors Directors, four NonDirectors to Independent and a Non-Executive Chairman.
From Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Directors.
1 September to 9 November the balance Non-Executive Chairman.
was five Executive Directors, five Independent Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman.
From 10 November to 31 December the balance was four Executive Directors, five Independent Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman.
As noted above, the balance of Director, Vic Gysin, means that the Board Our Board has six strong independent independent Non-Executives to is able to receive more detailed reports Non-Executive Directors, including the Executives is now equal and we are on proposed new contracts and major Chairman, to provide robust challenge compliant with the Code.
operational matters from formal Board and independent review.
This is a members and discuss them directly with large group and provides a sufciently Given the diversity of the Groups the responsible Directors.
powerful group to provide collective or activities, the Board considers it individual thought and challenge.
The appropriate to have the four Executive The Board also believes that the Board Board feels that a Non-Executive group Directors on the Group Board rather should not be too large in order to ensure of six including the Chairman is large than the lower number that many boards effective discussion and challenge and enough to provide independent strength.
The presence and membership considers that the number of NonOverall the Board composition is on the Board of the Group Business Executive Directors provides a wellspecically designed to ensure it remains Development Director, Chris Sellers, and balanced Board overall.
an effective forum for appropriately the Group Performance and Operations detailed debate and challenge.
Board changes in the year Name Date Position Sir Ian Powell 1 September 2016 Appointed Non-Executive Director Chairman with effect from 1 January 2017 Dawn Marriott-Sims 9 November 2016 Resigned as Joint Chief Operating officer Martin Bolland 31 December 2016 Retired as Chairman Maggi Bell 31 December 2016 Retired as Group Business Development Director Further information on the changes to the Board is set out in the Nomination Committee report on page 78.
68 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Board composition Board leadership Consistent with previous years, the Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Board continues to support the need to 2 1 January 2016 Andy Parker Martin Bolland segregate the responsibility for operating 1 31 August 2016 Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon the Board and managing the underlying 1 Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell business.
This will continue in 2017 with 1 Vic Gysin John Cresswell Sir Ian Powells role as Non-Executive 1 Dawn Marriott-Sims Andrew Williams Chairman and the role of Andy Parker as 2 1 September 2016 Andy Parker Martin Bolland Chief Executive being separate.
2 9 November 2016 Nick Greatorex Sir Ian Powell 1 Martin Bolland as Non-Executive Maggi Bell Gillian Sheldon 1 Chairman, Sir Ian Powell as Chairman Vic Gysin Paul Bowtell 1 Designate and Gillian Sheldon as Senior Dawn Marriott-Sims John Cresswell 1 Independent Director also held meetings Andrew Williams solely comprising the Non-Executive 2 10 November 2016 Andy Parker Martin Bolland Directors during 2016.
Both Sir Ian and 2 31 December 2016 Nick Greatorex Sir Ian Powell Gillian are also available to meet with 1 Maggi Bell Gillian Sheldon shareholders when requested.
1 Vic Gysin Paul Bowtell 1 John Cresswell Role of the Board 1 Andrew Williams In addition to their statutory duties, 2 As at 1 January 2017 Andy Parker Sir Ian Powell the Directors must ensure that the 1 Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon Board focuses effectively on all 1 Vic Gysin Paul Bowtell its accountabilities.
1 Chris Sellers John Cresswell 1 Andrew Williams 2 As at 1 March 2017 Andy Parker Sir Ian Powell 1 Nick Greatorex Gillian Sheldon 1 Vic Gysin Paul Bowtell 1 ROLE OF THE BOARD Chris Sellers John Cresswell 1 Andrew Williams 1 Matthew Lester The Companies Act 2006 requires 1 Independent in accordance with the Code.
Directors to act in a way they 2 Independen t on appointment in accordance with the Code.
consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of Frequency of meetings Due to the nature of the acquisition and shareholders as a whole.
In doing and attendance bid strategy, consideration of meeting so, the Directors must have regard During 2016, the Board met nine times, times has to include exibility to hold amongst other matters to: excluding ad hoc meetings solely to deal meetings outside of this timetable and with procedural matters.
Attendance of meetings of this nature tend to be held The likely consequences of any the Board Directors is recorded in the by telephone.
decision in the long term.
table below: Any Directors absence from Board meetings was previously agreed with The interests of the Board meetings the Chairman of the Board or the Companys employees.
Martin Bolland 9 The need to foster business During 2016, the following formal 1 Sir Ian Powell 3 relationships with suppliers, Director meetings took place: customers and others.
Andy Parker 9 The Chairman held one-to-one review Nick Greatorex 9 sessions with each Executive Director The impact of the Companys Maggi Bell 9 and each Non-Executive Director.
operations on the community Vic Gysin 8 and the environment.
The Non-Executive Directors met Gillian Sheldon 9 without Executive Directors.
The desirability of the Company Paul Bowtell 8 The Non-Executive Directors met maintaining a reputation for high with just the Chief Executive.
John Cresswell 9 standards of business conduct.
The Non-Executive Directors met Andrew Williams 9 2 without the Chairman, led by the Dawn Marriott-Sims 8 The need to act fairly towards all Senior Independent Director.
1 S ir Ian Powell was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2016.
2 D awn Marriott-Sims resigned from the Board on 9 November 2016.
69 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board determines the strategic Board of Directors inductions MATTERS RESERVED objectives and policies of the Group and training to best support the delivery of longFOR THE BOARD Following appointment to the Board, term value, providing overall strategic all new Directors receive an induction direction within an appropriate tailored to their individual requirements.
framework of rewards, incentives and They are encouraged to meet and be A formal schedule of matters controls.
The Board is collectively briefed on the roles of key people across reserved by the Board has been responsible for the success of the the Group and have open access to all adopted and these include, but Company: the Executive Directors are business areas and employees to build are not limited to: directly responsible for running the up an appropriate level of knowledge business operations and the Nonof the business that extends beyond Executive Directors are responsible Strategy and management, formal papers and presentations to the for bringing independent judgement including responsibility for the Board.
All Directors have received an and scrutiny to decisions taken by the overall leadership of the Group, appropriate induction for their roles Board.
The Non-Executive Directors setting the Groups values and within Capita.
These have included must satisfy themselves on the integrity standards and overview of the familiarisation with: of financial information and that Groups operational management.
Terms of reference for all committees financial controls and systems of risk and matters reserved for the Board management are robust.
Following Structure and capital including Overviews of the business via Monthly presentations by executive and divisional changes relating to the Groups Operating Board MOB review reports management and a disciplined process capital structure and major of review and challenge by the Board, changes to the Groups corporate The Group approach to clear decisions on policy or strategy are structure including acquisitions risk management.
adopted, and the executive management and disposals and changes to the On the announcement of the are fully empowered to implement Groups management and appointments of Sir Ian Powell, Chris those decisions.
Sellers and Matthew Lester to the Board, they received training and induction Board independence Financial reporting including the sessions with the previous Chairman, Non-Executive Directors are required approval of the half-yearly report, Executive Directors, the Group Company to be independent in character and interim management statements Secretary, the Group Risk and Compliance judgement.
All relationships that may and preliminary announcement Director and the Group Internal materially interfere with this judgement for the final results.
Sir Ian Powell has held are disclosed as required under the approval of the dividend policy, further induction meetings with the conicts of interest policy.
The Board has the setting and approval of Divisional Executive Ofcers and other determined that all the Non-Executive treasury policies and establishing senior management.
Directors who served during the year and maintaining accounting Ongoing training and briengs are also were independent and before and upon policies.
given to all Directors, including external appointment as Chairman, both Sir Ian courses as required.
Powell and Martin Bolland met the Internal controls, ensuring that the criteria of independence as outlined in Group manages risk effectively Group Company Secretary the Code.
and approves all acquisitions, All Board members have access to disposals of assets and share The Board does not believe that a Nonindependent advice on any matters acquisitions.
Executives tenure materially interferes relating to their responsibilities as with their ability to act in the best Directors and as members of the Contracts, including approval of all interests of the Group.
The Board also various committees of the Board at the major capital projects and major believes that each of the Non-Executives Groups expense.
investments including the has retained independence of character acquisition or disposal of interest Francesca Todd, as Group Company and judgement and has not formed of more than 3% in the voting Secretary, is available to all Directors and associations with management or others shares of any company or the is responsible for ensuring that all Board that may compromise their ability to making of any takeover offer.
exercise independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
The Group Company Secretary has Ensuring satisfactory direct access and responsibility to the The Board is satisfied that no conict communication with shareholders.
Chairs of the standing committees and of interest exists for any Director.
This open access to all the Directors.
The matter is a standing agenda item.
Any changes to the structure, size Group Company Secretary has been and composition of the Board.
appointed as Secretary to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to ensure that there are no conicts of interest.
70 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Group Company Secretary meets All members of the Board, including regularly with the Chairman, the Chair CASE STUDY: BOARD the Non-Executive Directors, receive a of the Audit and Risk Committee and the report on any significant discussions with DIRECTORS INDUCTION Chair of the Remuneration Committee, shareholders and feedback that follows AND TRAINING and briefs them on areas of governance the annual and half-yearly presentations and committee requirements.
to investment analysts and shareholders.
All analyst reports concerning Capita are Dialogue with shareholders circulated to the Directors.
The Board encourages and seeks to build Chairman Sir Ian Powell Directors, including the Chair of the a mutual understanding of objectives various committees, are present at the between Capita and its shareholders.
Began four-month handover and Annual General Meeting to answer As part of this process the Executive shadowing of Martin Bolland any questions.
The Board particularly Directors make regular presentations encourages communication with and the and meet with institutional shareholders Commenced meetings with participation of private investors at the to discuss the Groups business model Divisional Executive Ofcers Annual General Meeting.
and growth strategy, address any and key heads of services issues of concern, obtain feedback and Remuneration Committee consider corporate governance issues.
Provided with terms of reference Details of the Remuneration Committee The Board welcomed the revised UK for all committees and its activities are given in the Stewardship Code 2012 and the steps Directors remuneration report on pages it made to improve engagement and Provided with terms of reference 89105. purposeful dialogue between companies for matters reserved for the Board and investors.
All shareholders are Risk management and encouraged to attend the Annual Training from Group Company internal control General Meeting and information Secretary The Board monitors the Companys for shareholders is available on the risk management and internal control Companys website www.
Brieng in governance and systems and annually carries out a review All the Non-Executive Directors are stakeholder relationships of their effectiveness.
This is reported available to meet with shareholders to within the Audit and Risk Committee understand their views more fully.
The Brieng from Group Risk and report.
The monitoring and review Chairman is available to the significant Compliance Director includes all material controls, including shareholders of Capita.
financial, operational and compliance The Corporate Communications Meetings with Head of controls.
This process is regularly team has effective day-to-day Communications and Head of reviewed by the Board.
The Groups key responsibility for managing shareholder Investor Relations internal control procedures are fully communications and always acts in documented within the strategic report close consultation with the Board.
Attendance at Divisional Business on pages 4654.
Shareholders can also access upPlanning Presentations to-date information through the Groups website at www.
Commenced meetings with key A telephone helpline, 0871 664 0300, shareholders provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
In 2016, the Corporate Communications team and the Board maintained active, targeted communications with existing and potential shareholders and the wider investment community.
The team focused on creating opportunities for Capitas CEO to further build his relationships with the investment community.
It ensured that all shareholders were appraised of the causes of the weaker financial performance in the second half of the year and offered meetings with both Executive and Non-Executive Board members as necessary.
Capitas share register includes a balanced set of longterm shareholders from the UK and overseas with substantial shareholdings.
