79 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Financial Services Risk Committee.
His Members: 1,2 role is to provide quarterly feedback Paul Bowtell Chair to the Committee from the Financial 1 Gillian Sheldon Services Risk Committee.
He attended 1 Andrew Williams five meetings of the Audit and Risk 1 John Cresswell Committee during 2016.
The Board has reviewed the performance Set out below is a summary of the of the Committee and is satisfied that work carried out by the Committee the combined knowledge and experience Audit and Risk Committee meetings of its members is such that the are by invitation and generally attended Committee discharges its responsibilities PAUL BOWTELL by the: Non-Executive Chairman: in an effective, informed and challenging CHAIR, AUDIT AND Group Finance Director: Group Risk manner and that, as a whole, the RISK COMMITTEE and Compliance Director: Group Internal Committee has the competence Audit Director and by representatives relevant to the sector in which the of the external Auditor.
I am pleased to present the report The Chairman of the Committee is The Group Company Secretary acts on the activities of the Audit and directly available to and holds regular as Secretary to the Committee and Risk Committee for the year to meetings with the Group Finance is available to assist the members of 31 December 2016.
This is the last Director, Group Risk and Compliance the Committee as required, ensuring time that I will present the report Director, Group Company Secretary, that timely and accurate information as I have a new, enlarged role as Group Internal Audit Director and is distributed accordingly.
CFO of Ladbrokes Coral plc, which external Auditor.
Tim Brooke resigned as a member of the was created through the merger of Audit and Risk Committee during 2016.
Ladbrokes PLC and The Coral Group.
He is not a Non-Executive Director of Therefore it is with regret that I have Capita plc but remains an independent chosen to step down from the Capita Non-Executive Chair of Capitas Board and from my position as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
A search process has been concluded and I am pleased that the new Audit The following areas were discussed at the meetings held: and Risk Committee Chair will be Group Risk and Inter-relationship between top-down identied risks and bottom-up Matthew Lester from 1 June 2017.
Compliance risks identied by the divisional team structure and capability The year has been a complex Cyber risk one for the Committee.
With the Information and data security performance of the Group, key Business continuity and going concern considerations judgements have become a more Disaster recovery material factor and as a Committee we have focused heavily where these Training statistics are of most signicance both to the Viability statement overall balance of the results and the understandability of what is Group Internal Strategy for Group Internal Audit presented.
This is to ensure that due Audit Team structure clarity is given to material items and Use of co-sourcing expertise and the choice of partners that the judgements that support External review of the Group Internal Audit function their recognition or presentation are properly explained.
Compliance with the control framework Risk awareness and awareness to risk of senior management External FRC desktop review of key judgements and estimates Auditor New standards and their potential impact on Capita Approval of non-audit services Accounting for key new contracts and acquisitions Key judgement areas 1 I ndependent Non-Executive Director.
2 P aul is a Chartered Accountant, with recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit and Risk Committees.
