87 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Tracking key business developments, All Non-Executive Directors and the Group Financial Services Risk including bids, acquisitions and Group Internal Audit Director have an Committee offshoring developments.
open invitation to attend these meetings.
The Group Financial Services Risk Committee was established at the Receiving updates on regulatory capital In overseeing Capitas risk management beginning of 2012 and meets at least issues e. g. ICAAP.
practices and ensuring risks are limited quarterly to assess the risks across Receiving updates on Conduct by management and appropriate use Capitas financial services businesses.
of controls, the Committee holds a key is chaired by Tim Brooke, an independent position in the governance of Capitas Reviewing and adopting policies member of the Committee.
Its primary functions applicable to the financial independent of Capita and brings his are to: services businesses.
expertise in the Financial Services Identifying items for the attention of Oversee Capitas risk identication, sector to support the Committee.
He the Board or Audit and Risk Committee.
monitoring and reporting practices is not an independent Non-Executive and take all steps to ensure that senior Director of Capita plc but he provides The scope of the Committee includes divisional management has in place feedback quarterly to the Audit and Risk the Financial Conduct Authority FCA procedures and mechanisms to identify Committee.
Chris Terry, Group Risk and in the UK and the equivalent financial and control all fundamental strategic, Compliance Director, is also a member services regulator in other jurisdictions operational, financial and reporting and of the Committee.
where the Group operates regulated compliance risks.
The Committee met four times in Provide the forum to monitor, 2016.
Membership and attendance was challenge and ensure effective Non-Financial Services as follows: mitigation is in place for Capitas risk Risk Committee Number of management environment.
The Non-Financial Services Risk Name of member meetings attended Committee was established at the end Promote greater awareness of risk Tim Brooke Chair 4 of 2013.
It meets quarterly to assess management at all levels within Nick Greatorex 4 the risks outside of financial services the organisation.
and is chaired by Nick Greatorex, Group Vic Gysin 3 Establish and preserve oversight for Finance Director.
1 risk issues that affect Capita or its Chris Terry 4 customer base.
In 2016 the Committee met formally 1 Chris Terry Group Risk and Compliance Director.
Due to the spacing of Provide strategic risk guidance.
meetings during the year, the fourth Other key divisional staff are invited to meeting would have been held shortly attend and report to the Committee.
after the third meeting so papers All Non-Executive Directors and the and updates were circulated to the Group Internal Audit Director have Committee instead.
Membership and open invitations to attend any of attendance was as follows: these meetings.
Number of The Committees terms of Name of member meetings attended reference include: Nick Greatorex Chair 3 Reviewing and commenting upon 1 Vic Gysin Group control function oversight plans Dawn Marriott-Sims 1 and monitoring their progress.
2 Chris Terry 3 Reviewing material findings arising from oversight activities and issues identied 1 B efore being appointed Group Operations and Performance Director, Vic Gysin was Joint COO by management.
for the financial services divisions and risk matters Tracking key regulatory changes relating thereto were considered by the Financial Services Risk Committee.
impacting on the Groups 2 Chris Terry Group Risk and Compliance Director.
