Audit Committee report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Henry Staunton, Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2016 Audit Committee taken as a whole, the Groups Annual Report and Accounts are Report.
The Committee plays a key oversight role for the Board, fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information monitoring and reviewing all aspects of the Groups financial necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, reporting, internal controls and risk management procedures.
performance, business model and strategy.
This report provides an overview of the work undertaken by the Committee in the past year.
During 2016, the most significant topics considered by the Committee included the Groups property valuations, taxation and the accounting treatment of various significant corporate transactions.
The Committee also reviewed the updated risk disclosures Henry Staunton and the viability statement disclosurebefore they were Chairman of the Audit Committee, 21 February 2017 recommended to the Board.
Members: Finally, following consideration of the matters reviewed during Henry Staunton Chairman the year and the Groups significant risks, the Committee Gerry Murphy concluded, and made a recommendation to the Board that, Andrew Strang The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, oversees the financial The Audit Committee met three times during 2016.
Attendance reporting process, monitors the effectiveness of internal control, at these meetings is shown in the table on page 63.
The Committee internal audit, risk management and the statutory audit and also met privately during the year with both the external and monitors the independence of the statutory auditors and the internal auditors.
As at 31 December 2016 and the The Committee follows an annual programme, which is date of this report, the Committee comprises three independent agreed with the Committee Chair, management and external Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Henry Staunton who auditors prior to each financial year, andensures it gives thorough is considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial consideration to matters of particular importance to the Company, experience.
The Board believes that the Committee as a whole and additional matters are considered when appropriate.
The has competence in real estate matters.
Committees 2016 agenda is shown in the table on the next page, The Committees meetings were also attended by the Companys and the significant matters considered by the Committee during Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, General the year are also explained on the next page.
Counsel, Company Secretary and Financial Controller together During the year, as part of the Financial Reporting Councils with senior representatives of the external and internal auditors.
FRC normal cycle of reviews, the Group received a letter from The valuers and members of senior management, including the the FRC arising from their review of the Groups 2015 annual report Director of Finance, attended by invitation to present reports and accounts.
No significant issues were identified and the enquiry required for the Committee to discharge its responsibilities.
was concluded by the inclusion of enhanced disclosure in this years Annual Report and Accounts.
64 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2016 Regular meeting items February Meeting July Meeting December Meeting Report from Financial Controller Going concern assessment Interim results announcement Effectiveness of External Auditor and recommendation Accounting treatment Preliminary results, 2016 Audit Plan for re-appointment of significant transactions Annual Report and Management Liquidity forecasting Representation Letter Risk management review Accounting standards and policies Risk management Determining and recommending Internal controls Property valuations to the Board that the Annual Report Viability statement Viability statement review External Auditor report including taken as a whole was fair, regulatory update balanced and understandable Corporate governance policies andCommittee Terms of Reference Internal Auditor report from BDO Effectiveness of Internal Audit 2017 Internal Audit Plan Tax update SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN 2016 Matter considered What the Committee did Valuations As in previous years, the independent external valuers presented the year end and half year valuations to the Committee at the February and July meetings respectively.
The Committee reviewed the valuation process and component parts of the valuations, discussed the valuations with the external auditors and challenged the valuers on the assumptions used.
The Committee also advised the Board on the independence of the valuers and obtained confirmation that management had provided all requested information.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach taken by the valuers was appropriate.
Further information can be found in note 14on pages 115to 118of the notes to the accounts.
Tax The Director of Financepresented a report to the Committee at the February and July meetings, explained the basis of the Groups tax position, identified key taxation risks to the Group and updated the Committee on the ongoing relationship with HMRC.
The Committee challenged the assumptions made in arriving at the tax position and discussed with the external auditors the assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the deferred tax position.
The Committee was satisfied that the policy was appropriate for the Group.
Further information can be found innote 26on page 129of the notes to the accounts.
Significant As in previous years, the Committee received updates from theFinancial Controller on significant and complex transactions and complex at each meeting.
With regard to each transaction, such as the CLSA, the Solum joint venture and the Olympia strategic transactions review, the Committee discussed the accounting treatments with management and the external auditors and is satisfied that the appropriate approach has been taken.
The Committee is satisfied that theexternal auditors remain EXTERNAL AUDITORS independent and objective and that the Group is receiving a robust Committee Responsibilities and challenging objective audit and has therefore recommended The Committee oversees the relationship with to the Board that PwC be reappointed in 2017.
 LLP PwC, the external auditors, and is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring Tendering of External Audit Contract the Companys policy on external audit, and for monitoring the Capco tendered its external audit contract in 2010, and PwC auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, were appointed as Group auditors on an annual rolling contract.
The external auditors The Directors plan to complete an audit tender by 2020, the date are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently by which the external audit contract must be tendered to comply need to audit or which might either create a conflict of interest with regulatory requirements, unless issues are identified which or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
require a tender to be undertaken earlier.
This is in the best interest of the Companys members because it will ensure continuity of Access to Committee service from the external auditors.
The external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Committee meetings.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Effectiveness of Auditors The Committee monitored PwCs effectiveness and performance statement of compliance during 2016, and considered a paper prepared by the Financial The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Controller which confirmed that in managements view PwC Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year were providing a good-quality audit service and continued under review.
to deliver against all facilities considered at their appointment.
com 65 Audit Committee report continued Committee meetings.
The Committee meets with the internal Non-Audit Services auditors at least once per year without management being present.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such INTERNAL CONTROL & RISK MANAGEMENT a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
Risk Management The Company has adopted a policy to ensure that the provision The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk of non-audit services by the external auditor does not compromise management framework and system of internal control and the its independence or objectivity.
The policy requires the Audit ongoing review of their effectiveness: it also determines the risk Committee Chairman to pre-approve any non-audit work with appetite of the Group and regularly reviews principal risks and a cost exceeding the lower of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the estimated uncertainties.
The framework is designed to manage rather than annual level of the auditors fees at that time.
Services below this eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, limit are pre-approved by the Audit Committee under the policy, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has subject to consideration and approval by an Executive Director.
delegated responsibility for the review of the adequacy and Approval is only given following a full and thorough assessment effectiveness of the Groups internal controls relating to risk of the value case for using the auditor and the skills and experience to the Committee and the Committee reviews the controls the auditor would bring.
Additionally, consideration must be given relating to risks and the proposedprincipal risk disclosures.
to the preservation of auditor independence: and the external A description of the Group risk management framework andthe review undertaken auditors are required to confirm that they are acting independently during the year is set out on page 14. and are not: Viability Statement auditing their own work: As part of its work in reviewing the Groups financial statements, making management decisions for the Company: the Committee reviewed the methodology for the preparation of the viability statement including the principal risks, supporting creating a mutuality of interest: analysis, qualifications and assumptions to be disclosed.
developing close personal relationships with the Companys The viability statement can be found on page 17. personnel: or Internal Controls acting in the role of advocate for the Company.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of The Committee is satisfied that the policy remains effective.
the Groups internal controls and reports regularlyto the Board on its work and conclusions.
In reviewing the effectiveness of The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2016 were 464,000, the Groups internal controls, the Committee considers reports of which 14,000 related to non-audit work.
These fees primarily provided by the Financial Controller, external auditor and internal relate to corporate transactions and verification of performance auditor.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified againstshare scheme performance conditions.
The total fees paid in the review process.
and payable to PwC in 2016 and 2015 are set out in the table below.
Details of the Groups internal controls are set out below: 2016 2015 Day-to-day procedures and internal control framework Total fees paid to PwC 464,000 454,000 Schedule of matters reserved for the Board Non-audit fees 14,000 14,000 Remit and terms of reference of Board Committees Ratio of non-audit fees 3.0% 3.1% Delegated authority limits Documentation of significant transactions INTERNAL AUDITOR Internal Audit Plan The Executive Directors are closely involved in the day-to-day BDO LLP BDO has been appointed to act as Capcos internal operations of the business and hold regular meetings with senior auditor.
During 2016, BDOs audit plan included reviews of: management to review aspects of the business, including risks and controls IT security: Regular Board updates on strategy and project developments Covent Garden residential leasing: A whistleblowing procedure under which staff mayraise matters training and talent management: of concern confidentially.
No calls were received during the year.
health & safety in relation to development projects : Specific controls relating to financial reporting accounts payable and expenses: and consolidation process insurance: and Appropriately staffed management structure, with clear lines of responsibility and accountability VAT compliance.
A comprehensive budgeting and review system.
Board and During 2017, it is expected that the audit plan will include reviews Audit Committee updates from the Chief Financial Officer of payroll, employee benefits, health & safety, procurement, Bribery Act which include forecasts, performance against budget and policies and procedures, Lillie Square completions and management, financial covenants financial management and budgetary control, and IT controls.
Led by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance team participates Committee Responsibilities in the control self-assessment and policy compliance elements The Committee reviews the work of the Internal Auditor, the of the risk management framework and sets formal requirements audit plan, any matters identified as a result of internal audits with business unit finance functions which specify the reports and whether recommendations are addressed by management and approvals required in a timely and appropriate way.
The Committee is satisfied that BDO conducts regular audits of the Groups financial control the internal auditor was independent and its services effective.
procedures and reports its findings to the Audit Committee Access to the Committee The internal audit partner has direct access to theAudit Committee The Committee is satisfied that the Groups internal controls are Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal operating effectively and that systems are in accordance with FRC guidance.
