Corporate governance report OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Ian Durant, Chairman Dear Shareholder, A governance framework that supports the I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2016 Corporate achievementof Capcos strategic objectives.
The geopolitical climate of 2016 resulted in a challenging appoint an additional Non-executive Director with a property year for Capco, and the economic environment continues to background, and we will seek to make an appointment when be uncertain.
Against this backdrop the importance of a robust an opportunity arises.
governance framework comes to the fore, and I am pleased to As in previous years, all of the Directors will be seeking confirm that Capcos system of controls and reporting, which election or re-election at our AGM.
This year, Andrew Strang, is overseen by the Board, continues to ensure the Company Henry Staunton and Graeme Gordon will eachhave served operates effectively.
on the Board for more than six years.
Accordingly, before In this report, and the Committee reports that follow, we recommending that they be reappointed, the Nomination explain the operation of Capcos Board and its Committees, and Committee gave particular consideration to the continued how the Company applied the principles of the UK Corporate contribution of each Director and the balance of independence Governance Code during the year.
We also provide information of the Board.
on some of the management committees that strengthen the Gerry Murphy became Chairman of the Remuneration controls and reporting framework across the Group.
During the Committee during the year, and has led the Committee in year, with increased construction and demolition activity across a review of executive remuneration.
Details of the proposed the business, the Board paid particular attention to health and simplified remuneration policy which is aligned with safety.
There was also a continued focus on risk management shareholder interests, and includes a new single performance to ensure that the alignment of risk and strategy remains share plan, are included in the Directors Remuneration Report appropriate in the changing market environment.
In anticipation of the introduction of the new Market Abuse As we move into 2017, the economic and political conditions Regulations, a Disclosure Committee was established to oversee remain uncertain, however I am confident that Capcos Board the Companys compliance with the new regulations.
and governance structures provide a sound base for Capco to The main matter considered by the Nomination Committee respond to the challenges and opportunities ahead.
during 2016 was the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer following Soumen Das departure from the Company at the end of the year.
Descriptions of the recruitment process followed when appointing Situl Jobanputra and the tailored inductions that we provide to new Directors are included in the Nomination Committee report from page 67.
Ian Durant Chairman The Board regularly reviews its composition to ensure the Directors continue to have an appropriate mix of skills 21 February 2017 and experience to deliver Capcos strategic goals, and a clear STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE succession plan is being prepared.
During 2016 Ian Henderson retired from the Board, and we welcomed Anthony Steains as a UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE new independent Non-executive Director.
Anthonys corporate The Company has applied the principles and complied with the finance career in Asia brings a diverse perspective to the Boards provisions ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code discussions.
As I reported last year, the Board would like to during 2016.
58 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The annual Board calendar includes a two-day strategy meeting.
THE BOARD At this meeting the Board receives detailed updates from external The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success advisers and the business units, and is able to consider strategic of the Company, and for its leadership, strategy, values, standards, issues in depth, and spend time with members of senior control and management.
Day-to-day management of the Group management in a less formal environment.
is delegated to the Executive Directors, subject to formal delegated authority limits: however, certain matters have been reserved for Board papers are circulated a week in advance of meetings to ensure Board approval.
These matters are reviewed annually and include that Directors have sufficient time to consider their content prior Board and Committee composition, strategy, significant funding to the meeting.
If matters require approval at short notice, written decisions and corporate transactions, delegated authority limits approval is sought from the Directors.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-executive Directors Board composition without the Executive Directors being present and maintains As at 31 December 2016, the Board comprised the Chairman, three regular contact with both the Chief Executive and members Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors.
The table on of senior management.
page 60 summarises the membership of the Board and Committees.
As matters that require the Boards decision are often large, Biographies of each ofthe Directors, which include information complex and evolve over a period of time, informal update on their skills and experience, can be found on pages56and 57. meetings are held between Board meetings to allow Board membersadequate time to explore, understand and challenge Board independence matters under consideration.
These are often combined with site The Code requires that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of visits and provide an opportunity for the Non-executive Directors the Board should comprise Non-executive Directors determined to meet senior management.
Four such updates were held during to be independent.
2016, including a presentation on health and safety matters.
The Board has considered the independence of the Non-executive During 2016, the Board received regular asset, financial and Directors, including potential conflicts of interest, and the table performance updates from the Executive Directors and reports on page 60 sets out those Directors considered to be independent from the Company Secretary, General Counsel, Director of in character and judgement.
Each of these Directors has also HR & CR and Committee Chairmen.
The table below shows confirmed that there is no reason why they should not continue thekey areasconsidered by theBoard during the year.
BOARD COMMITTEES In considering Director independence, the Board concluded that The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Directors tenure should be counted from the date of their first Committees to enable the Board to operate effectively and ensure election by shareholders to the Capco Board.
a strong governanceframework for decision making.
The key responsibilities of Board members are set out in the table on page 61.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which were THE BOARD IN 2016 reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference can be viewed The Board met formally throughout the year with main meetings on the Companys website www.
Minutes timed around the financial calendar, and additional meetings of all Committee meetings are made available to all Directors.
convened to consider specific matters as required.
Attendance The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any at Board and Committee meetings held during 2016 is shown questions on the Committees activities.
A number of management committees support the business in delivering its strategy.
A summary of the role of each Committee is shown on page 60, and the activity of each Committee during 2016 is described on pages64 to88.
MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2016 Business Strategy, New Financial Governance, Business and Directors Properties Performance Internal Controls and Risk Strategy Property valuations Annual and half year results Risk appetite and principal risks and dividends Change of CFO Covent Garden performance Health & Safety, Security Risk and IT security updates Treasury and cash management New business opportunities Floral Court and Carriage Hall Board evaluation and action plan  developments Key investment decisions Legal and regulatory updates Group tax position Earls Court demolition and Board composition and The Market Abuse Regulations 2016 Lillie Square completions Market and Broker updates succession planning AGM resolutions andvoting Planning consents and Budget submissions Modern Slavery Act 2015 Board Committees terms of reference and schedule of matters reserved for the Board www.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE THE BOARD Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Management of strategy, leadership and risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Oversees financial reporting Sets remuneration policy Recommends Board appointments Monitors internal controls, Sets Executive Director remuneration Board succession planning including risk management and incentives Reviews Directors skills, Monitors internal and Approves annual performance objectives experience and independence external auditors Board evaluation Further information can be found in: Audit Committee Report on pages 64to 66 Directors Remuneration Report Nomination Committee Report on pages 70 to 88 on pages 67 to 69 Risk Management Report on pages 14 to 17 Business Committees: Executive Risk Committee Business Services Committee Disclosure Committee Executive management forum for review Supports the business and streamlines Monitors whether there is inside information and discussion of risks, controls and delivery of business services within the business mitigation measures Establishes and promotes Group-wide Ensures disclosure requirements are met policies and systems to enable the Company Ensures appropriate records are maintained to operate efficiently GroupSafety Leadership Team Corporate Responsibility Executive Security Risk Committee Provides Group-wide oversight of Provides Group-wideoversight of the Committee management and implementation of management of security risk Manages the CR activities of the Group Capcos Health and Safety Policy and Prepares CR policy Management System Sets CR targets and monitors progress BOARD INDEPENDENCE Year of first Audit Nomination Remuneration Name election Independent Committee Committee Committee Ian Durant Chairman 2011 n a Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 2011 No Situl Jobanputra n a No Gary Yardley 2011 No Graeme Gordon 2011 No Gerry Murphy 2015 Yes Demetra Pinsent 2013 Yes Henry Staunton SID 2011 Yes Anthony Steains 2016 Yes Andrew Strang 2011 Yes 56% independent 60 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ROLES OF BOARD MEMBERS The followingtable sets out thekey responsibilities of Board members: Roles of Board Members Position Name Responsibilities Chairman Ian Durant Leads the Board, ensures its effectiveness and sets its agenda.
Ensures an effective link between shareholders, the Board and management.
Chief Executive Ian Hawksworth Develops the Companys strategic direction, implements policies and strategies agreed by the Board and manages the business.
Chief Financial Officer Situl Jobanputra Responsible for developing and implementing financial strategy for the Group.
Managing Director & Gary Yardley Responsible for leading the Groups real estate investment, overseeing significant Chief Investment Officer real estate transactions.
Non-executive Directors Graeme Gordon, Gerry Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of the Murphy, Demetra Pinsent, agreed corporate strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
Henry Staunton, Anthony Steains, Andrew Strang All Directors have access to the advice and services of: Company Secretary Ruth Pavey Advises the Board on corporate governance matters and ensures a good flow of information within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
General Counsel Anne Byrne Provides legal advice and guidance to the Board: reports on business services activities.
HEALTH & SAFETY BRIEFING InSeptember 2016, one of the Board updates was used to providea briefing on health and safety.
The presentation covered the safety culture at Capco, the role of the Board, Directors duties in respect of health and safety, relevant legislation, governance and reporting.
The Directors found the refresher training beneficial, and hearing the details ofCapcos highlights for 2016 and priorities for the coming year brought to life the matters covered in the regular health and safety updates included in the Board papers.
You can read more aboutHealth & Safety at Capcoin the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 55.
Earls Court demolition site www.
com 61 Corporate governance report continued and concerns which shareholders may have.
The Company ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD communicates with stakeholders in a number of ways: Recognising that Capcos Board must be effective, the Board conducts an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of Corporate website its Committees and Directors.
In 2016 the evaluation was externally Our corporate website www.
com allows facilitated by NJMD Corporate Services Limited NJMD, which visitors to access Company information, annual reports, results provides no other services to the Group.
The Directors and Company presentations and webcasts.
The site also includes links to our Secretarywere each asked to complete a questionnaire covering all business unit websites and contact details for shareholder queries.
matters relating to the performance of the Board, its Committees and its Directors, following whicheach participant was interviewed Annual General Meeting by NJMD with comments being noted on a confidential basis.
Our AGM allows the Board to update our shareholders on Capcos A report was prepared by NJMDwhich concluded that the Board progress, and provides an opportunity for shareholders to pose is effectively run and administered and the Board appears to havean questions to the Directors, and meet senior executives.
open and honest culture reflecting the values held bythe Company.
Shareholders are encouraged to vote on the resolutions put to The report made a number of recommendations, although no the meeting, either in person, online or by submitting a proxy card.
areas of major concern were found.
The outcomes of the evaluation We publish the results of the votes on all resolutions on our website were considered by the Board and a Board action plan for 2017 following the meeting.
Our 2017 AGM will be held on Friday 5 May 2017.
The notice of In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted an Annual General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least appraisal of the Chairmans performance which confirmed the 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will Boards continued confidence in the Chairman and outlined be proposed on each issue and, in accordance with the Code, areas for future focus.
The Chairman also undertook appraisals each Directorwill offer themselves for election or re-election.
of the other Directors performance.
The Chairman, Chairmen of the Board Committees and other Directors will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS and answer any questions.
Our policy The Board is keen to ensure that our shareholders and potential Should shareholders have any concerns that they are unable to investors have a good understanding of Capcos business successfully resolve following communication with the Chairman, and performance, and that Directors are aware of any issues Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, they may raise them through the Senior Independent Director.
2016 EXTERNAL BOARD EVALUATION The Chairman and Company Secretary considered the approach to be taken for the 2016 Board Evaluation The Nomination Committee considered the proposed approach and approved the appointment of NJMD Each Director and the Company Secretary completed a questionnaire and structured interview withNJMD A report was prepared by NJMD and provided to the Board for consideration An action plan was agreed ACTIONS FOR 2016 PROGRESS ACTIONS FOR 2017 Implement annual health Health & Safety briefing held see page 61 Ensure Board agendas allow effective and safety briefing in addition strategic discussion to the regular reports to Document approach to succession and each meeting continue to consider Board diversity Ensure effective reporting Corporate responsibility is included Periodically review past Board decisions of corporate responsibility on each Board agenda to the Board following dissolution of CR Committee Review the effectiveness The new risk management structure of the new risk management reviewed and considered to be effective structure 62 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The table below shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during 2016.
In addition the General Counsel attends each Board and Audit Committee meeting and theCompany Secretary attends each Board and Committeemeeting: Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Ian Durant Chairman 5 5 5 5 Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 5 5 5 5 Soumen Das 5 5 Gary Yardley 5 5 Graeme Gordon 5 5 Ian Henderson retired 6 May 2016 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 Gerry Murphy 5 5 3 3 7 7 5 5 1 Demetra Pinsent 5 5 4 4 5 5 Henry Staunton SID 5 5 3 3 7 7 5 5 Anthony Steains appointed 1 March 2016 4 4 3 3 Andrew Strang 5 5 3 3 7 7 5 5 5 3 7 5 1.
Appointed to the Remuneration Committee in April 2016 whether a conflict exists and recommends its authorisation by Communications with shareholders and other stakeholders the Board where appropriate.
In cases where there is a potential Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for conflict of interest, an appropriate protocol to be followed where the Board.
The Company runs an extensive investor relations a conflict of interest may arise is agreed.
In addition, a Director who programme, and the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and had a conflict of interest would not be counted in the quorum or Director of Investor Relations hold meetings with institutional entitled to vote when the Board considered the matter in which the investors throughout the year, including results presentations, Director had an interest.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed webcasts, road shows, one-to-one meetings and investor tours.
during the recruitment process and, if appropriate, authorised by The Companys major shareholders are encouraged to meet with the Board on appointment.
the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director to discuss On appointment, and each subsequent year, Non-executive Directors any matters they may wish to raise.
During 2016, the Chairman are required to confirm in writing that they have sufficient time to and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee held a number devote to the Companys affairs.
In addition, they are required to seek of meetings with shareholders, in connection with the review prior approval from the Chairman before taking on any additional of executive remuneration.
external commitments which may affect their time available to The Directors receive regular updates on the Companys major devote to the Company, and the Board is advised of any changes.
shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at The Chairman is also Chairman of Greggs plc.
The Board is satisfied each Board meeting.
The Non-executive Directors are invited that the Chairmans additional commitments allow him to devote to attend the Companys results presentations.
sufficient time to perform his duties as Chairman of Capco.
Private shareholders may raise questions through the The Board is satisfied that all Non-executive Directors are Company Secretarys office either by telephone or by email contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
The Company maintains active relations with community DTR DISCLOSURE stakeholders.
The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report, and the Audit Please see pages 51 and 52in the CR Report for more details of Capcos Committee and Nomination Committee Reports, except for stakeholder engagement.
6 which is contained in CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND the Directors Report on pages 89 and 90.
TIME COMMITMENTS The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise.
The Board has adopted a procedure under which Directors must notify the Chairman of any potential conflicts.
The Chairman then decides www.
