62 Capita plc Strategic report G Go ov five er rna nanc nce e Accounts BOARD MEMBERS As at 31 December 2016, the Board CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS comprised ten Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive, three other Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
We have an experienced team in place to support our strategy and to meet the opportunities and challenges that the Group faces.
As the Group develops, we will regularly review the Board composition to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
At 31 December 2016 we had two female Sir Ian Powell Andy Parker Directors and eight male Directors.
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive from January 2017 Joined Capita: 2001 Date appointed to Board: September 2016 Date appointed to Board: January 2011 Independent at appointment: Yes Board responsibilities: Key skills and experience: Managing and developing Capitas business to Chartered Accountant: Previously Chairman achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
and Senior Partner of PwC responsible Additional Group responsibilities: for expertise management and board Group charitable approach: Group IT: chairmanship of PwC UK: Member of the Strategic Communications: Mergers and PwC five-person network leadership team: acquisitions strategy.
Leader of PwCs EMEA network.
Previous experience in Capita: Other current appointments: Deputy Chief Executive June 2013March Chairman Police Now: Trustee The Old 2014 : Joint Chief Operating Officer 2011 Vic: Trustee Wellbeing of Women: Member 2013 overseeing non-financial services of the Development Committee The operations: Divisional Director for Capitas National Gallery.
LENGTH OF TENURE ICT, Health and Business Services Division: Committee memberships: Senior Divisional Finance Director.
AS BOARD DIRECTORS Nomination Chair.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Ian 6 months Powell Andy 3 years 3 years Parker Nick 2 years Greatorex Vic 6 years Gysin Chris 2 months Sellers Gillian Sheldon Paul Bowtell Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Gillian 4 years Date appointed to Board: September 2012 Date appointed to Board: June 2010 Sheldon appointed Senior Independent Director on Independent: Yes Paul 1 January 2013 Key skills and experience: Chartered 7 years Bowtell Independent: Yes Accountant: Extensive experience across the UK Leisure sector: Significant financial and Key skills and experience: Andrew commercial knowledge: Previously on the Board 2 years Substantial experience of advising boards Williams of TUI Travel PLC as Chief Financial Officer and across a wide range of complex situations also on the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC and transactions: previously worked at John and SThree PLC.
Other senior positions held 1 year NM Rothschild & Sons.
Cresswell with British Gas, WHSmith and Forte.
Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Chief Financial Matthew Senior banker at Credit Suisse: Trustee of BBC 0 months Officer of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc from Lester Children in Need.
Previously CFO of Committee memberships: Gala Coral Group until the merger with Joined the Board 1 March 2017 Ladbrokes : Non Executive Chairman of Audit and Risk: Nomination: Remuneration.
Key privately owned entity, Alua Hotels.
Chairman CEO Executive Director Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Non-Executive Director Capita role pre-Board Chair until 31 May 2017 : Nomination: Remuneration.
