S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Audit and Risk Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the Audit and a review of whether the Annual Report and Accounts Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during for the year ended January 2015, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provide the year.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess ROLE OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE the Companys strategy, business model and The principal responsibilities of the Committee, which performance: has received delegated authority from the Board, are to: approval of the Groups half-year results published in September 2015: oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to verifying the independence of the Groups auditor, financial performance: approving their audit strategy and audit fee and setting performance expectations: oversee the Groups external audit process including its scope and the extent of the non-audit services a review of the systems and controls which the Group provided by our auditor: has in place to enable the Board to make proper judgements on a continuing basis as to the financial monitor the effectiveness of financial controls: position and prospects of the Group: evaluate the process for identifying and managing reviewing the Groups risk register in March and risk throughout the Group: and September with updates in the other Committee ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, meetings on progress with actions: balanced and understandable.
reviewing the Groups business resilience arrangements and identifying areas for development and practical A more detailed explanation of the Audit and Risk solutions that will support the continuing evolution of Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance the Groups processes in this area: Report on page 38.
The Committees terms of reference, which are published on Card Factorys monitoring the Groups compliance with its policy for investor website www.
com, use of our auditor for non-audit work: comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
reviewing the Groups tax strategy which covers all aspects of the Groups tax obligations and objectives MEMBERSHIP and how it manages these and tax risk and The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by David interactions with HMRC: Stead, and its other members are Octavia Morley and monitoring the implementation of a reorganisation Paul McCrudden.
Geoff Cooper was also a member of undertaken by the Group to simplify its corporate the Committee until 24 February 2015. structure: As David Stead is a chartered accountant and was until reviewing and approving the internal audit plan recently the Chief Financial Officer of Dunelm Group prepared by Deloitte LLP following their appointment plc, the Board considers that he has both recent and to provide certain internal audit services to the Group relevant financial experience in accordance with the and the results of the initial projects undertaken by requirements of the Code.
them: and The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and reviewing fraud detection controls managed by the the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings of the Groups loss prevention team including Committee by invitation, along with a representative from developments in the Groups approach to managing our auditor, KPMG LLP and a representative from our compliance with these and the reporting of incidents in accordance with the Groups whistleblowing policy.
internal audit services provider Deloitte LLP.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
ACTIVITIES AFTER THE YEAR END MEETINGS In the period following the year end, the Committee met The Committee met four times during the year with once in March 2016 and reviewed the following: details of attendance at these meetings set out in the the Groups risk management framework, ensuring it Corporate Governance Report on page 36. enables the Directors to identify and carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the ROUTINE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Group including those that would threaten its business During the year, the work of the Committee has model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: principally fallen under the following areas: the process undertaken by management to support a review of the integrity of the draft financial the Groups viability statement which is set out on statements for the year ended January 2015, the page 71 including the choice of time period assessed appropriateness of accounting policies and going and the choice of principal risks and combinations of concern assumptions and considering the auditors risks modelled: report regarding its findings on the annual results: Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 45 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued the integrity of the draft financial statements for additional store counts of seasonal inventory at the the year ended January 2016, including the end of the key trading seasons for the business: appropriateness of accounting policies and going reviews of inventory levels by store: and concern assumptions: detailed analytical review to assess the the external auditors report: reasonableness of the inventory figure.
the systems and controls which the Group has in place to enable the Board to make proper The Committee is satisfied that the judgements judgements on a continuing basis as to the financial made by management are reasonable and that position and prospects of the Group: appropriate disclosures have been made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
whether this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Accounting for foreign exchange hedging instruments provides the information necessary for shareholders The business aims to hedge a significant proportion of to assess the Companys position and performance, planned foreign currency stock purchases.
A number of business model and strategy: forward hedges including structured options are in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended place and, where appropriate, hedge accounting is January 2016 and recommended them for approval: adopted by the Group.
and Hedge accounting is by nature complex and is subject the performance, effectiveness and qualifications of to documentary requirements and periodic the external auditor and recommendation for their effectiveness testing involving a degree of judgement.
In order to ensure compliance with the requirements for hedge accounting the Group formally documents the SIGNIFICANT AREAS OF JUDGEMENT designation of foreign currency hedges at the outset of Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors each hedging relationship and hedge effectiveness is the integrity of the Groups annual and half-year results, tested on a monthly basis.
Forecast foreign currency including a review of the significant financial reporting requirements and the level of hedges in place are issues and judgements contained in them.
monitored on an ongoing basis.
At its meeting in March 2016, the Committee: reviewed The Committee is satisfied that accounting policies the Groups results for the financial year: considered a in respect of hedge accounting have been paper prepared by KPMG LLP, which included appropriately applied.
comments on significant reporting and accounting matters: and reviewed a paper from the Chief Financial The Committee also confirmed to the Board that it Officer to support the Directors going concern and considered the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole viability statements.
to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The major accounting issues discussed by the INTERNAL AUDIT Committee concerned: Following a competitive tender process, Deloitte LLP were appointed by the Committee in March 2015 to the existence and valuation of the Groups inventory: provide internal audit services for the Group.
Their work and will be focused on providing additional support to the the accounting relating to the Groups foreign Group in evaluating the effectiveness and robustness of exchange hedging instruments.
its system of internal control and its approach to identifying and mitigating risks.
All of the Groups other Inventory internal controls are currently managed and monitored The Group holds significant volumes, and a broad range, by the Groups senior management team including the of inventory.
Certain of the Groups inventory procedures Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
are manual in nature as are certain controls around inventory once it has left the Groups distribution centre At its meeting in June 2015, the Committee agreed an and has been delivered to stores.
In light of these manual internal audit plan put forward by Deloitte.
The plan had procedures and controls, there is a heightened risk that a been prepared following interviews with members of material misstatement could arise due to the volume or the Groups senior management team and completion cost of inventory being incorrectly recorded.
of an assurance mapping exercise including a review of the Groups risk register.
The major focus of internal The Group has a number of formal processes and audit reviews for the years 2015 16 and 2016 17 is on procedures to assess the reasonableness of the the Groups use of technology.
inventory value presented in the Annual Report and Accounts.
These include: LOSS PREVENTION The Groups loss prevention function that was full inventory counts twice yearly both in-store and in established a number of years ago is primarily focused the Groups distribution centre: on cash fraud and loss prevention in Card Factory stores.
The Committee receives regular reports from this function on investigations, outcomes and strategies 46 46 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 that the Group adopts to address issues that arise.
S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s EXTERNAL AUDITOR for monitoring how this policy is implemented.
KPMG LLP have conducted the statutory audit for the Under the policy, our auditor is eligible for selection to financial year ended 31 January 2016 and they attended provide non-audit services where it is in the Groups all four of the Committee meetings held during that best interest for it to do this and it is best placed to year as well as the one held in March 2016.
The deliver the required service in terms of quality and cost, Committee had the opportunity to meet privately with taking into account their skills and experience.
This is them during the period.
subject to the overriding principle that the auditor may not provide a service which: The fee paid to KPMG LLP for the statutory audit of places them in a position to audit their own work: the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation was results in them making management decisions for 100,000.
A breakdown of fees paid to KPMG LLP the Group: during the financial year is set out in note 4 to the creates a mutuality of interest: or financial statements on page 90. puts them in the role of advocate for the Company or Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to any member of the Group.
authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
All work commissioned from our auditor is required to be sanctioned by the Chief Financial Officer, who The regulatory requirements on mandatory audit consults with the Committee Chairman if the fee tendering and rotation are continuing to evolve and involved is significant or if there are any issues the Committee will monitor developments in this area.
regarding independence, and the policy has built in Currently our policy is to tender the statutory audit at levels of authority to control the awarding of non-audit least every ten years.
As KPMG LLP have been our work to the Companys auditor.
auditor since 2011 12, this means that the next tender will be for the 2021 22 audit at the latest.
We intend to The Chief Financial Officer also provides the Committee invite at least one firm outside the Big Four to with reports at each meeting on audit, audit related and participate in the tender process.
non-audit expenditure, together with details of any material non-audit related assignments.
Whilst we have not now conducted a competitive tender for the audit for more than five years, the The aggregate fees paid to KPMG LLP for non-audit Committee and the Board continue to believe this is in work during the year were 36,000 equivalent to 36% the best interests of shareholders.
KPMG LLP have, of the audit fee.
During the course of the year we have during their time as the Groups auditor, developed an engaged KPMG LLP to provide tax advice, to perform extensive knowledge of the Group and they successfully an independent review of our half-year results, and for supported the Group through its IPO in 2014.
Given that sundry additional assignments including advice in the Group remains relatively new to the listed company connection with the simplification of the Groups environment, KPMGs knowledge and experience and corporate structure.
Full details are given in note 4 to the stability this provides is important to the Group as it the financial statements on page 90. continues through its initial years as a listed Group.
In The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of line with audit partner rotation requirements 2015 16 audit related and non-audit fees, and the nature of will be the last year for which the Independent Auditors services provided, are not such as to compromise the Report will be signed by the current KPMG LLP audit objectivity and independence of our auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee has met with the new audit partner.
The Committee acknowledges that the statutory regime in respect of the provision of non-audit services will We comply with the Competition and Markets change later this year and it will consider whether any Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. changes are required to the Groups existing policy The Group has no contractual arrangements for and report on these in next years Annual Report example, within borrowing arrangements that restrict and Accounts.
This report was reviewed and approved by the USE OF AUDITORS FOR NON-AUDIT WORK Committee on 4 April 2016.
The Committee recognises that the use of audit firms for non-audit services can potentially give rise to conflicts of interest and is therefore a sensitive issue.
David Stead Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee The Group has a formal policy regarding its use of 4 April 2016 audit firms for non-audit services, a copy of which is available on Card Factorys investor website www.
The Committee, in addition to being responsible for the oversight of our auditor on behalf of the Board, also has responsibility Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 47
