Corporate Governance Report LEADERSHIP AND APPROACH Since the year end Karen Hubbard has joined the Board The Board is committed to the highest standards of and will formally become the Groups Chief Executive corporate governance.
The Board understands the Officer in mid-April 2016. importance of its leadership on governance in setting the culture and values that are instilled within the CODE COMPLIANCE business and which will allow it to achieve its long-term Save as set out in the paragraphs below, the Board has strategic goals whilst successfully managing and complied with and intends to continue to comply with lowering risks for our shareholders.
the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 by the Financial We believe that good governance is demonstrated by Reporting Council the UK Corporate Governance applying corporate governance principles and Code or the Code a copy of which can be obtained guidelines in a way that reflects the nature of our from www.
The Company will report to its business.
By doing this we believe we strengthen our shareholders on its compliance with the UK Corporate ability to develop a governance culture in the business Governance Code in accordance with the Listing that sits alongside the entrepreneurial spirit that has Rules LRs'.
enabled it to develop into the business it is today.
ROLE OF THE BOARD KEY GOVERNANCE ACTIVITIES The strategy for the growth of the business is Key activities during the year were: determined by the Board in a manner that both facilitates the development and growth of the Group through the Nomination Committee, planning the over the long-term in the interests of its shareholders, succession of our current Chief Executive Officer, and recognises the importance of our duties to Richard Hayes, and appointing Karen Hubbard to colleagues, customers, the community in which we succeed him: operate and the interests of our other stakeholders all carrying out a detailed review of the Groups strategy of which have been central to the development of the and putting in place clear actions for development business and its culture to date.
over the coming year: In addition to setting strategy, the Board takes overall reviewing the performance and objectives of responsibility for measuring the Groups progress thebusiness in each of the four pillars of its towards this and ensures that the exercise of its control growthstrategy: and decision-making powers are aligned with its a detailed review of the Groups capital structure and strategic direction.
dividend policy as reported on in more detail in the Chief Financial Officers Review in the Strategy BOARD COMPOSITION, BALANCE Report on page 20: AND INDEPENDENCE The Board currently comprises seven members.
completing an internal performance evaluation of the Board, its individual members and the Board The Code recommends that at least half the board Committees and agreeing objectives and areas for ofdirectors of a UK listed company, excluding the future development: Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors an interim review of the matters being considered determined by the Board to be independent in bythe Board during the year as well as planning the character and judgement and free from relationships Boards agenda for the year ahead: orcircumstances which may affect, or could appear a full review of the matters currently reserved for the toaffect, the directors judgement.
Board ensuring they reflect the nature of the business and how it is managed on a day-to-day basis: Following the appointment of Karen Hubbard to theBoard as Chief Executive Officer Designate on inviting external speakers from a range of 22February 2016, the Company does not technically backgrounds to Board meetings to share their comply with this recommendation as, at the date of this business insights, experience and also their views on report, the Board consists of the Non-Executive the prevailing macroeconomic environment and its Chairman, three Independent Non-Executive Directors impact on retailers: and three Executive Directors.
This non-compliance is as previously noted, Graeme Coulthard resigned as only temporary and to allow foran orderly handover to aNon-Executive Director following the significant Karen following her appointment.
As previously noted, reduction in the shareholding of the Charterhouse Richard Hayes will retire from the Board and the Group Funds which subsequently sold all of their remaining at the end of June 2016 following which the constitution shares in the Company : and of the Board will again comply with the Code.
following the appointment of Paul McCrudden, GeoffCooper stood down as a member of the Auditand Risk Committee.
34 34 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s As Charterhouse through the Charterhouse Funds As previously announced, Graeme Coulthard, who was have now sold all of their shares in the Company, considered by the Board to be non-independent under Geoff Coopers potential conflict of interest that was the Code, resigned from the Board on 3 February 2015. authorised by the Board by virtue of his role as an Graeme was appointed under the terms of the adviser to them has ceased.
Relationship Agreement between the Company and theCharterhouse Funds Charterhouse which Notwithstanding Geoff Coopers share options and his terminated following a sale by Charterhouse of some prior role as an adviser to Charterhouse, the Board ofits shares in the Company.
Further details of the considered Geoff to be independent on appointment.
Relationship Agreement are set out in the Directors Report on page 70.
Senior Independent Director Octavia Morley The Code recommends that the board of directors of The Board considers all of the current Non-Executive acompany with a premium listing should appoint one Directors as independent Non-Executive Directors ofthe Non-Executive Directors as a Senior Independent within the meaning of the Code and free from any Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman business or other relationships that are likely to interfere and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have Although the Board remains small relative to some concerns, when contact through the normal channels of other similar premium listed companies, the preference the Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve, or for is for it to remain this way to ensure it continues to be which such contact is inappropriate.
Octavia Morley has an effective and efficient decision-making body that been appointed as the Senior Independent Director of supports the Groups growth.
This will be kept under review to ensure the Board has an appropriate balance the Company and has considerable experience of acting of skills and experience to support its exercise of as an Independent Non-Executive Director having been itsduties.
an Independent Non-Executive Director of John Menzies plc between 2006 and 2015.
Chairman Geoff Cooper The Code recommends that, on appointment, the BOARD RESPONSIBILITY chairman of a company with a premium listing on the The Company has a clear division of responsibilities Official List should meet the independence criteria set between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief out in the Code.
In general terms, the Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the On appointment, the Board considered Geoff Cooper to Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups be independent but his appointment is subject to the business on a day-to-day basis.
terms of a letter of appointment dated 30 April 2014 under which, as part of his remuneration, Geoff was This clear division of responsibilities, when taken given the option to invest 330,000 in the Company together with the schedule of matters which the Board bymeans of an acquisition of ordinary shares as part has reserved for its own consideration, ensures that no of, or alongside, the offer of shares conducted in one person has unlimited and unchecked power to conjunction with the Companys IPO at the offer price make decisions that may have a material impact on the of 225p per share the Offer Price.
Geoff took up this Group as a whole.
During the year, the Board carried offer at the time of the IPO and agreed to acquire out a review of the matters reserved for the Board 146,666 ordinary shares and this has entitled him, ensuring they best reflect the nature of the business oneach of the second and third anniversaries of the and how it is managed on a day-to-day basis.
A copy date of the completion of the IPO, to make further ofthese is available on Card Factorys investor website investments of 330,000 in the Company by www.
com and, on request, from purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the the Company Secretary.
Geoffs entitlement to make such purchases is conditional upon and subject to his remaining as Chairman of the Company on the relevant dates.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 35 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD ATTENDANCE During the year, the Board held ten scheduled meetings and various Board Committee meetings were also held with attendance as follows: Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Director Role 10 meetings 2 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman and Chair of Nomination Committee 10 2 2 Octavia Morley Senior Independent Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee 10 2 4 2 David Stead Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit and Risk Committee 10 2 4 2 Paul McCrudden Independent Non-Executive Director 10 2 4 2 Graeme Coulthard Non-Executive Director Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer 10 Darren Bryant Chief Financial Officer 10 Graeme Coulthard resigned on 3 February 2015 and did not attend any Board meetings during the year.
BOARD ACTIVITIES AND EFFECTIVENESS Board meetings are structured to ensure they focus on key strategic and operational matters that are affecting the business and examples of those matters considered by the Board during the year are set out below.
Additionally, the Board considers any decisions that arewithin the matters reserved for the Board.
The Board had in place a schedule of matters that were discussed during the year and a similar schedule isin place detailing matters for discussion at Board meetings in the current financial year.
As part of its normal planning, the Board puts these schedules in place in advance of each financial year and they include regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer on the operational and financial performance of the Group together with regular feedback from the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors on their engagement with the business.
They also include arolling agenda of other key strategic, operational, governance and risk topics, as well as presentations from senior management team members which ensure that the Groups Non-Executive Directors remain informed of key developments within the Group.
Thisisregularly updated to ensure the Board is responsive to the strategic and operational issues affecting the business.
The key topics discussed by the Board during the yearwere: Strategy Performance Governance Review of Groups EPOS system Annual results Group business continuity plan Group IT structure and resource Sales analysis including key seasons Governance and legal updates Product and strategic initiatives Competitor activity review Principal risks review Foreign exchange strategy Review of store rollout programme Review of reserved matters Groups capital structure Group IT projects update Investor relations updates Online marketing strategy Card Factory website review Board and Committee planner Business efficiencies Human Resources Republic of Ireland Health and safety SAYE 2016 grant Board evaluation National living wage All Directors receive papers in advance of Board meetings including regular reports from the senior management team covering the parts of the business they are responsible for and which monitor achievement against the Groups key performance indicators, both financial and strategic.
36 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s To aid efficient decision-making, a standard summary The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer report has been developed for material matters have overall responsibility for investor relations.
requiring Board approval that includes managements They are currently supported by the Companys clear recommendation on the matters being addressed.
retained financial PR advisers, MHP Communications, and its corporate brokers, UBS, who help organise The Board measures the time spent on strategy, presentations and visits to the Groups operations and governance and performance at each meeting.
Over stores for analysts and shareholders.
Although the the year, the majority of our time was spent on strategy, Group has chosen not to appoint a dedicated investor followed by performance and governance, which the relations person, this is something the Board will keep Board considers to be appropriate.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken The formal reporting of the Groups full and half-yearly by the Company Secretary and circulated for approval.
results has been and will continue to be a combination Theminutes record actions, decisions and deadlines of presentations, group calls and meetings and one-toarising out of the topics discussed and a rolling list one meetings in a variety of locations where we have ofkey actions accompanies the minutes for each Board shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief meeting.
This enables the Board to monitor the Financial Officer have and will continue to report back progress with each action by those responsible on to the Board after any investor related events and also aregular basis.
ensure that the Board is kept regularly informed of feedback from analysts and shareholders.
The Groups External speakers brokers also provide feedback after the full and halfDuring the year, the Board also invited several external year results announcements and, as appropriate, other speakers to attend our Board meetings as lunch guests.
investor related events to inform the Board about These sessions, whilst relatively informal, allowed the investor views.
Board to benefit from the business insights and experience of our guests as well as their views on the All the Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, prevailing macroeconomic environment and its impact theChairman and Senior Independent Director are on retailers.
The Board intends to continue with this available to meet with major shareholders, if they wish programme of speakers during the coming year.
to raise issues separately from the arrangements described above.
Board strategy day In addition to its scheduled Board meetings, the Board The Company will also communicate with shareholders held a separate strategy discussion in July 2015 at through the AGM, at which the Chairman will give an which it considered each element of the Groups four account of the progress of the business over the last growth pillars and agreed a schedule of actions that year and a review of current issues, and will provide the should be addressed with clear accountability and opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
All timetables in place for each.
Where relevant, those Directors will be available at the AGM.
actions have been incorporated within the Boards rolling agenda for Board meetings during the current Card Factorys investor website is also updated with year to ensure the Board has the opportunity to review news and information including this Annual Report and and provide comment on the senior management Accounts which sets out our strategy and performance teams progress and to ensure appropriate steps are together with our plans for future growth being taken to mitigate against the risk of not www.
SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS INVESTOR RELATIONS Details of the Groups significant shareholders and of The Board recognises the importance of explaining shareholder voting rights are set out in the Directors financial results and key strategic and operational Report on page 70. developments in the business to the Companys shareholders and understanding any shareholder concerns.
The Board regularly communicates and meets with shareholders and analysts and the Board will continue to adopt this approach.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 37 Corporate Governance Report continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MEETINGS The Code recommends that an Audit Committee The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors should comprise of at least three members who are met three times in the year without Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors, and that at least being present and they intend to continue to meet one member should have recent and relevant financial regularly to ensure that any concerns can be raised and experience.
The Audit and Risk Committee is currently discussed outside formal Board meetings.
On two of chaired by David Stead, and its other members are these occasion, the Senior Independent Director and the Octavia Morley and Paul McCrudden.
The Directors other Non-Executive Directors continued the meeting consider that David Stead has recent and relevant without the Chairman to review his performance.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors The Audit and Risk Committee met four times during regularly have informal meetings with the Executive the year and, in future, will meet no fewer than three Directors and other members of the senior times a year.
management team in the business, often at a store location or at the Groups head office.
The Audit and Risk Committee has taken appropriate steps to ensure that the Companys Auditor is independent of the Company and obtained written BOARD COMMITTEES confirmation from the Companys Auditor that it The Board has three committees: an Audit and Risk complies with guidelines on independence issued by Committee, a Nomination Committee and a the relevant accountancy and auditing bodies.
If the need should arise, theBoard may set up additional committees.
The Audit and Risk Committee has access to sufficient Audit and Risk Committee resources to carry out its duties, including the services The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary discharging its responsibilities with regard to: and the Groups loss prevention team.
In addition, Deloitte LLP, have been appointed to provide additional financial reporting: internal audit services to the Group.
Independent external and internal audits and controls, including external legal and professional advice can also be taken reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups by the Audit and Risk Committee if it believes it annual and interim financial statements: necessary to do so.
reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit The Audit and Risk Committee chair will be available at work undertaken by external auditors: Annual General Meetings of the Company to respond to advising on the appointment of external auditors: questions from shareholders on the activities of the Audit and Risk Committee during the year: a report on overseeing the Groups relationship with its external which is set out on page 45 of the Governance section auditors: of this report.
reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process: The Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference, reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal which are available on request from the Company control review function and risk management Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor systems: and website www.
Remuneration Committee The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in the Annual Report and Accounts and the half-yearly determining its responsibilities in relation to reports remains with the Board.
The Audit and Risk remuneration, including: Committee will give due consideration to laws and regulations, the provisions of the Code and the making recommendations to the Board on the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Companys policy on executive remuneration: setting the over-arching principles, parameters and governance framework of the Groups remuneration policy: and determining the individual remuneration and benefits package of each of the Companys Executive Directors, its Company Secretary and other members of the Groups senior management team.
38 38 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s The Remuneration Committee also ensures compliance The Code recommends that a majority of the members with the Code in relation to remuneration and is of a Nomination Committee should be Independent responsible for preparing an annual remuneration report Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is for approval by the Companys members at its AGM.
chaired by Geoff Cooper, and its other members are Octavia Morley, David Stead and Paul McCrudden.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmans fees are The Directors therefore believe that the Company is in determined by the full Board.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year and, in future, will meet not The Code provides that a Remuneration Committee less than once a year.
A report on the activities of the should comprise of at least three members who are Nomination Committee during the year is set out on Independent Non-Executive Directors, free from any page 68 of the Governance section of this report.
relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and The Nomination Committees terms of reference, that a Chairman of the Board of Directors may also be whichare available on request from the Company amember provided he is considered independent on Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor appointment.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired website www.
com, comply with by Octavia Morley, and its other members are Geoff the Code.
Cooper, David Stead and Paul McCrudden.
TRAINING AND INDUCTION The Remuneration Committee met twice during the It is important to the Board that all Directors have the year and, in future, will meet not less than twice a year.
ability to influence and challenge appropriately so that the Board and the Group, as a whole, can maximise the The Board and the Remuneration Committee have benefit they derive from their business knowledge and employed Kepler a brand of Mercer, a consulting experience.
agency which specialises in executive remuneration, toadvise and assist in connection with the Groups New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored executive remuneration arrangements and its reporting induction on joining the Board, including meeting other obligations.
Kepler do not provide any other services to members of the Board, the senior management team, the Group.
other key members of staff and the Groups advisers.
The induction includes visits to the Groups stores, head A report on the Remuneration Committees activities office, its design studio, Printcraft the Groups print during the year is set out on page 48 of the Governance facility and the headquarters of its online subsidiary, section of this report.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference, Since joining in February 2016, Karen Hubbard has which are available on request from the Company been through an extensive tailored induction plan and Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor has taken the opportunity to work in store during a key website www.
com, comply with trading period.
Throughout the year, all of the Non-Executive Directors Nomination Committee have continued to visit stores both informally and The Nomination Committee assists the Board in together with members of the senior management team discharging its responsibilities relating to the and feedback is given at the following Board meeting.
composition and make-up of the Board and any committees of the Board.
It is also responsible for New Directors are also given the opportunity to review periodically reviewing the Boards structure and information about the Group including Board and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Committee papers and strategy documentation which Directors or committee members as the need may arise.
they may find useful in preparing for their role.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the The Groups Company Secretary and General Counsel size, structure and composition of the Board and periodically reports to the Board on any new legal, committees of the Board, retirements and appointments regulatory and governance developments that affect of additional and replacement directors and committee the Group and, where necessary, actions are agreed.
members and will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages 30 to32 for details of the skills and experience of eachDirector.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 39 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD EVALUATION All conflicts are considered by the Board and any As intended, the Board conducted its first full internal authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes evaluation during the year which was led by the and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary.
considers that its procedures to approve conflicts Each Board member and the Company Secretary of interest and potential conflicts of interest are wasasked to complete a detailed questionnaire operating effectively.
that required them to give their assessment of the effectiveness of the Chairman, individual Directors, APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS thestanding committees of the Board, the Company All Directors have service agreements or letters of Secretary and the Board as a whole.
The key appointment in place and the details of their terms objectivesthe Board set itself for the coming year areset out in the Directors Remuneration Report are summarised below: onpages 56 to 58.
The service agreements and lettersof appointment are available for inspection Subject Objective atthe Companys registered office during normal Succession Having successfully managed the business hours.
planning succession of our Chief Executive Officer, to develop a wider succession plan for The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the senior management team.
a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by Board Develop the Boards agenda to focus, the Board so long as the Director stands down and planning more directly, on the Groups four offers him or herself for election at the next AGM of the strategic growth pillars and to allow Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director more creative thinking time.
must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election Values and Define, articulate and embed the values by shareholders at the AGM at least every 3 years.
The culture and culture of the business.
Code recommends that directors of companies in the Board To set specific goals for delivery of FTSE 350 index should be subject to annual re-election.
information Board information in terms of The Company intends to comply with this presentation, quantity and timing.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of Board evaluation will continue to be conducted on an shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which annual basis and the Board will, every third year, as special notice has been given in accordance with the required by the Code, engage with an external agency Companies Act 2006.
The Articles of Association of to assist in the process.
theCompany also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being CONFLICTS OF INTEREST aDirector, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public resolve that his or her office be vacated if he or she is company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of ofunsound mind or is absent from Board meetings interest of individual Directors where the Articles of without consent for six months or more.
A Director Association of the company contain an enabling mayalso resign from the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Committee makes recommendations to the Board on Board this authority subject to the following safeguards: the appointment and removal of Directors.
Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that In accordance with the Code, all Directors will retire interest and abstain from voting: and from the Board and offer themselves for re-election atthe AGM.
only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of POWERS OF DIRECTORS interest and, in taking that decision, the Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Board, must act in a way they consider, in good faith, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, wouldbe most likely to promote the success of subject to the requirements of the Companies Act theCompany.
2006, the Articles of Association of the Company and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
in accordance with the Code and these set out matters All Directors are required to disclose any actual or which are reserved to the Board or committees and the potential conflicts to the Board and there are no current powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief matters disclosed that are considered by the Board to Executive Officer respectively.
give rise to a conflict of interest.
40 40 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s At the Annual General Meetings of the Company, the The key elements of the process which have been Board will seek authority to issue shares and to buy established by the Group to identify, evaluate and back and reissue shares.
Any shares bought back manage any significant risks are as follows: wouldeither be held in treasury, cancelled or sold in the Board and the senior management team take a accordance with the provisions of the Companies leadership role in managing risk within the business Act2006.
For further details see the Notice of Annual and look to embed the principles of sound risk General Meeting which accompanies this report.
management in the teams they are responsible for managing: ADVICE, INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE responsibility for monitoring and managing specific All Directors have access to the advice and services of risks, which are assessed in terms of impact and the Company Secretary.
In addition, Directors may seek likelihood, identified in the Groups risk register on a legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it day-to-day basis is given to the relevant members of necessary in connection with their duties.
the Groups senior management team who are then responsible for ensuring we take appropriate actions The Directors of the Company, and the Companys to mitigate against these risks and for providing subsidiaries, have the benefit of a third-party indemnity updates to the Groups Executive Directors and the provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies rest of the senior management team: Act 2006, in the Companys Articles of Association.
Inaddition, Directors and Officers of the Company and in the event there is a change in their assessment of its subsidiaries are covered by Directors and Officers the impact the risk may have on the Group or they liability insurance as well as prospectus liability identify a new risk which the Group may face, the insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred Groups risk register is updated accordingly: byDirectors in the performance of their duties or the Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the powers in connection with the issue of the Prospectus Groups risk register and gives detailed consideration in relation to the IPO.
Until his resignation on 3 February to those risks which have been identified as principal 2015, Graeme Coulthard Non-Executive Director had risks affecting the Group and the actions being taken the benefit of these policies.
No amount was paid under and processes in place to mitigate them as well as any of these indemnities or insurances during the year providing regular and rigorous challenge to the other than the applicable insurance premiums.
Executive Directors: ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION the Board carries out a review of the principal risks The Companys Articles of Association can only be affecting the Group twice a year as well as assessing amended by a special resolution of its shareholders in whether the Group is striking an appropriate balance ageneral meeting, in accordance with the Companies between its appetite for risk and the achievement of Act 2006. its strategic goals: and certain principal risks, for example, competitor GOVERNANCE AND RISK activity and business strategy are, as part of the The Board, as a whole, takes overall responsibility for day-to-day management of the business, the ensuring that the Company has a continuous process in subjectof separate and regular detailed discussions place to identify, evaluate and manage any significant at Board meetings and meetings of the senior risks that may affect the achievement of the Groups management team.
Given the nature ofour business and our operating model, we do not The Board collectively recognise that the continuous have a separate risk committee.
Our Audit and Risk robust assessment and control of risk are fundamental Committee oversees our risk management framework to the Group achieving its strategic and operational as part of its activities and ensures that it enables the objectives and the Audit and Risk Committee seeks to Committee and the Board to carry out a robust ensure that the risk management framework evolves assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, with the business and the trading environment in which including those that would threaten its business model, the Group operates.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The risk management framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve strategic objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 4 41 1 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have Specific elements of the current internal control reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk framework include: management framework and the Companys risk a list of matters specifically reserved for Board register and their alignment with the Companys approval: strategic objectives in accordance with the Code for the clear structures and accountabilities for colleagues, period ended 31 January 2016 and up to the date of well understood policies and procedures, and approving the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board budgeting and review processes all of which the considered the principal risks and relevant mitigating Executive Directors are closely involved with: actions and determined that they were acceptable for aretail business of the size and complexity as that every member of the senior management team operated by the Group.
having clear responsibilities and operating within defined policies and procedures covering such areas INTERNAL CONTROL AND AUDIT as capital expenditure, treasury operations, financial Overall responsibility for the system of internal control targets, human resources management, customer and reviewing its effectiveness lies with the Board.
In its service and health and safety: day-to-day operations, the Group continuously assesses the Executive Directors and the senior management the performance of its internal controls and, where team monitoring compliance with these policies and necessary, looks to enhance its control environments.
procedures and, in addition, regularly reviewing As previously noted, the Group has also appointed performance against budget, analysis of variances, Deloitte LLP to provide internal audit services to the major business issues, key performance indicators Group and further detail of the scope of their work, the and the accuracy of business forecasting: and internal audit plan that has been put in place and how this will support our assessment of our controls and a continuous review programme of store compliance processes is set out in the report of the Audit and Risk by the loss prevention team as regards financial Committee on page 46. procedures in stores, by risk assessors working in the health and safety team and by other teams within The Groups system of internal control can be the Group.
summarised as follows: During the year, certain other internal audit activities Board were carried out by internal teams, reporting to the Take collective responsibility for internal controls Board and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Topics Reserves certain matters for the Board covered included business continuity planning and the Oversees the control framework and responsibility for it Groups IT governance, controls and team structure and Approves key policies and procedures some of these activities will also be the subject of Monitors development of performance review by Deloitte LLP in accordance with their internal Audit and Risk Committee audit plan.
Oversees effectiveness of internal control framework The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for Receives reports from external auditor overseeing the Groups system of internal controls Approves internal audit programme andof the internal audit programme and receives the Receives reports generated through the internal audit report of the external auditor following the annual programme statutory audit.
Senior management team Responsible for operating within the control framework The Board and the Audit Committee have monitored Reviews and monitors compliance with policies and and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal procedures control systems in accordance with the Code for the Recommends changes to controls where needed period ended 31 January 2016 and up to the date of Monitors performance approving the Annual Report and Accounts and confirmed that they are satisfactory.
Loss prevention team Focus on cash losses and fraud in stores Please note that internal control systems such as this Risk assessors operational audit team are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Reviews compliance with certain internal procedures in failure to achieve business objectives and can provide stores and at other locations only reasonable and not absolute, assurance against material accounting misstatement or loss.
Where any Co-sourced internal audit function significant failures or weaknesses are identified from Deloitte LLP the systems of internal control, action is taken to remedy these.
42 42 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s DISCLOSURES UNDER DTR 7.2.
6R The disclosures the Company is required to make pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6R are contained in the Directors Report on pages 69 to 71.
SHARE DEALING CODE The Company has a code of securities dealings in place in relation to the ordinary shares which is based on, and is at least as rigorous as, the Model Code as published in the Listing Rules.
The code adopted applies to the Directors, members of the senior management team and to other relevant employees of the Company.
Were considering the implications of the new EU Market Abuse Regulation coming into force later this year on our share dealing code and will report next year on any changes we have made to address these.
ANTI-BRIBERY The Company has implemented internal procedures and measures including the provision of an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy designed to ensure compliance by it and other members of the Group with the UK Bribery Act 2010 as amended.
WHISTLEBLOWING The Group is committed to conducting its business with honesty and integrity, with high standards of corporate governance and in compliance with legislation and appropriate codes of practice.
We expect all staff to maintain such high standards but recognise that all organisations face the risk of things going wrong from time to time, or of unknowingly harbouring illegal or unethical conduct.
We recognise that a culture of openness and accountability is essential in order to prevent such situations occurring, or to address them when they do occur.
We maintain a whistleblowing policy that is designed to encourage colleagues to report such situations without fear of repercussions or recriminations provided that they are acting in good faith.
By having early knowledge of any wrongdoing or illegal or unethical behaviour, we improve our ability to intervene and stop it.
The policy sets out how any concerns can be raised and the response that can be expected from the Company and provides staff with the assurance that they can do this in complete confidence.
We reinforced this message through a poster campaign during the year and the Audit and Risk Committee is notified of any whistleblowing reports.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 4 April 2016.
Geoff Cooper Chairman 4 April 2016 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 43
