Nomination Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the GENDER AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY Nomination Committee, the work it has undertaken Our policy is that the Board should always be of mixed during the year and details of how it intends to carry gender and ethnically diverse, but we feel that quotas out its responsibilities going forwards.
are not appropriate as they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE and size.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and We will, however, seek to ensure that specific effort is by conducting a rigorous and transparent process when made to bring forward female candidates and those new appointments to the Board are made.
from a range of ethnic backgrounds for Board appointments and we will monitor the Groups approach A more detailed explanation of the Nomination to people development to ensure that it continues to Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance enable talented individuals, from both genders and Report on page 39 and the Committees terms of from all ethnic groups, to enjoy career progression reference, which are published on Card Factorys activities within the Group.
com, comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on MEMBERSHIP page 27.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Geoff Cooper, and its other members are Octavia Morley, David Stead BOARD EVALUATION and Paul McCrudden.
As intended, the Board conducted its first full internal evaluation during the year which was led by the The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Officer attended the two meetings held this year by Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance invitation as well as participating in the discussions held Report on page 40.
Board evaluation will continue to be by the Committee during the process leading up to conducted on an annual basis and the Board will, every Karen Hubbards appointment.
The Company Secretary third year, as required by the UK Corporate Governance acts as secretary to the Committee.
Code, engage with an external agency to assist in the process.
MEETINGS As currently constituted, the Committee met twice TENURE AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS during the year with details of attendance set out in the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Corporate Governance Report on page 36.
Karen Hubbard will seek election and all the other Directors will seek re-election at the next AGM on COMMITTEE ACTIVITY IN 2015 16 24 May 2016.
The Committees main activity during the year, as described in more detail in the introductory letter to This report was reviewed and approved by the Board this report, was to initiate a thorough process for the on 4 April 2016. recruitment of a new Chief Executive.
The process was brought to successful conclusion with the appointment of Karen Hubbard in January.
Geoff Cooper Chairman of the Nomination Committee COMMITTEES FOCUS FOR THE FUTURE 4 April 2016 The Nomination Committees priority over the coming year will be to continue to develop and extend the succession planning process so that it covers all key roles in our senior executive team.
In addressing this, the Board understands and acknowledges that its succession planning policy will: focus on the needs of the business over the medium to longer term and the importance of maintaining the appropriate balance of skills and experience across both the executive management team and among the Non-Executive Directors: and recognise that the Groups best interests are served by ensuring that the individuals who lead the Group represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including gender but who at all times are most suitable people for their roles.
68 68 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
