Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Report of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Main activities of the Audit Committee in I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the financial relation to the year ended 31 December 2016 year ended 31 December 2016.
During 2016, the Committee has continued As summarised above, the Committee met on four occasions in 2016. to review and report to the Board on the Groups financial reporting, The table below summarises the agenda items covered at the Committees internal control and risk management processes and the performance, meetings held during 2016. independence and effectiveness of the auditor, KPMG LLP.
This report Feb Jun Aug Dec describes the Committees major areas of focus since my last report in March 2016.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements There were no changes to the composition of the Committee in 2016.
The Full-year results and associated announcements Committee continued to comprise of the four Non-Executive Directors as Half-year results and associated announcements set out below.
The diverse set of skills and the depth of experience contributed by Committee members is detailed on pages 50 and 51.
The Going concern report Board considers that more than one Committee member possesses recent External audit and relevant financial experience, all Committee members are independent Review and consideration of the Audit Memorandum and the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the key Board representation letter segments of the Groups business activities.
Evaluation of auditor and recommendation on The assurance framework required by the Audit Committee is provided by reappointment to the Board complementary contributions from management reports, internal and Fees for non-statutory audit activities external audit reports and from risk management reports.
Audit Strategy for 2016 I continue to hold regular meetings with both the Companys external and Committee meeting with auditor internal auditors, the Group Finance Director and the Group Head of Risk, Internal audit in which key issues relevant to the Committees work are discussed.
In Audit and Peer Review reports addition, I and my colleagues on the Committee visit contract operations in Evaluation of audit function both the support services and construction areas of the business in order Internal Audit and Peer Review plans to maintain a more detailed understanding of the Groups businesses, which together with the reports we receive, facilitate the ongoing effective Committee meeting with internal audit operation of the Committee.
Other In order to ensure ongoing compliance with regulatory developments, the Review of report on risk management and internal controls Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The requirements introduced under The UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016, which Review of whistleblowing and fraud reports became effective for accounting periods beginning after 17 June 2016 were Annual review of terms of reference incorporated into the Committees terms of reference in 2016.
As a part of Annual evaluation of the Committee this review, the Committee incorporated the requirements of its new policy Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code on auditor independence and the Codes requirement for the Committee and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules as a whole to possess competence relevant to the sectors in which the and Disclosure and Transparency Rules Company operates into the Committees formal terms of reference.
Review of correspondence with Financial Reporting Council FRC and or Review of FRCs Audit Quality The Committees terms of reference can be viewed at www.
com Inspection Report or a copy obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
In addition to the above, at its meeting in February 2017, the Committee Membership and attendance at meetings held reviewed the Groups financial statements and other relevant disclosures relating to this 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
during the year ended 31 December 2016 Meeting attendance Meeting attendance 2016 2015 Financial reporting and significant judgements Eligible Eligible Member Appointed Attended to attend Attended to attend The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made Andrew Dougal Chairman 03.10.11 4 4 3 3 appropriate estimates and judgements in the preparation of the financial statements.
As part of its review the Committee considers the clarity and Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 4 4 2 2 completeness of disclosures in the financial statements to assess whether Alison Horner 01.12.13 4 4 3 3 these have been set appropriately in the context.
The Committee also Ceri Powell 02.04.14 4 4 3 3 keeps under review the impact of any actual or expected changes to accounting standards applicable to the Group and provides general To ensure compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate oversight in relation to the financial policies of the Group.
Governance Code, Committee membership is limited to Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
We also have in attendance In addition, during 2016 the Committee considered the points raised by the at meetings, by invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, Executive Financial Reporting Council FRC in relation to the Groups 2015 Annual Directors, the Group Financial Controller, representatives of both the Report and Accounts and it reviewed the managements responses to external auditors KPMG LLP and the internal auditors Deloitte LLP and these points.
The correspondence with the FRC in relation to the Groups the Group Head of Risk.
The Committee also meets privately with both the Annual Report and Accounts closed satisfactorily with no changes to external and internal auditors.
As a result of this correspondence the Group has extended certain disclosures in this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information necessary to fulfil its duties, call any member of staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee, as and when required, and obtain independent legal, accounting or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Report of the Audit Committee continued Summary of 2016 results Fair, balanced and understandable The Group reported revenue of 5,214.2 million 2015: 4,586.9 million At its February 2017 meeting the Committee reviewed the Groups Annual and an underlying profit before tax of 178.0 million 2015: 176.5 million Report and Accounts and recommended them to the Board as for the year ended 31 December 2016.
In August 2016, the Committee representing a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the reviewed the Groups half-year results and discussed these with the Groups position.
external auditor prior to their release.
In February 2017, the Committee reviewed the Groups 2016 Annual Report and Accounts to ensure External audit compliance with statutory and other regulatory requirements and discussed significant financial reporting issues or areas of judgement with The Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and results of the the external auditor.
In respect of the financial statements for the year Groups external audit process and its effectiveness.
During 2016, the ended 31 December 2016, the significant issues reviewed and how these Committee continued to monitor the independence and objectivity of the issues were addressed are summarised below: external auditor to ensure that the services provided continued to represent a healthy balance between objectivity and value for money.
In addition, in the interests of efficiency and effectiveness, the Committee also Revenue and margin recognition ensured that activities undertaken by the internal and external audit Given the nature of the Groups activities, revenue and margin recognition functions complemented each other.
continues to be a key area of judgement for management.
Note 31 on page 132 of the financial statements describes the estimation techniques used by External audit process management to determine the amount of revenue and costs to be recognised in relation to construction and services contracts.
A significant During 2016, KPMG LLP KPMG acted as the Companys auditor and proportion of the Committees time is spent reviewing contract judgements provided certain non-audit services to the Group.
given the Groups extensive portfolio of contracts.
Peter Meehan is the Group Audit Partner.
Mr Meehan and members of The Committee reviewed, through discussions with management and the his team attended each of the Committees meetings during 2016.
As external auditor, the positions and judgements taken by management on a Chairman of the Committee, I also maintain contact with the Group number of material contracts across the Group, including the impact on Audit Partner.
The scope of the Groups 2016 audit was discussed and approved by The Committee also reviewed the basis of the judgement adopted by the Committee in June 2016 and an update against this plan was management as detailed in note 31 on page 132 in relation to 20 million of considered and approved by the Committee in December 2016.
Proposed licencing income recognised during 2016. audit fees for 2016 were also reviewed by the Committee prior to their recommendation to the Board for approval.
KPMG are expected to report On the basis of these discussions, the Committee concluded that the to the Committee on any material issues identified in relation to the Groups positions and judgements taken in relation to the contracts reviewed and reported performance or any significant breakdown in controls identified the licence income recognised were reasonable.
The Committee has also during the audit process.
The 2016 audit plan was completed in line with continued to monitor the overall management of cash flows and working the scope agreed by the Committee with no significant issues being capital, in particular receivables and payables, as these are key areas of highlighted for the Committees attention.
importance in relation to the Groups financial performance.
External auditor effectiveness Valuation of goodwill In February 2017, the Committee undertook its annual review of the At 31 December 2016, the Group had 1,571.0 million 2015: 1,544.3million external auditors effectiveness.
This review was based on feedback 1 of goodwill, being the largest single item included in its balance sheet.
received from the Committee members, the Executive Directors and Note 11 on page 110 of the financial statements describes the estimation Business Unit Finance Directors.
This review confirmed that KPMG techniques used by management to assess whether there has been an continued to provide a high quality and a very effective service in its role as impairment to the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets.
external auditor to the Group with an overall approval rating of 4.7 out of The Committee considered and critically reviewed theassumptions used 5.0.
The Groups finance function also obtains feedback from the operating in managements impairment calculations and considered the views of the units and holds a two-way feedback session, which is designed to highlight external auditor on this issue.
This included areview of the sensitivity the key strengths of the current process and potential areas for future analysis undertaken by management and the external auditor.
This session confirmed that the audit continues to be of this review, the Committee agreed with management that no impairment undertaken in an efficient manner.
In addition, the Committee received and to goodwill was necessary.
discussed with the Group Audit Partner, the Financial Reporting Councils annual Audit Quality Inspection report, published in May 2016, on KPMG LLP Adoption of the going concern basis and KPMG Audit plc.
Prior to the publication of both the half and the full-year results for the Auditor independence and non-audit services Group, the Committee undertook a detailed assessment of the appropriateness of the adoption by the Group of the going concern basis During 2016, KPMG continued to provide certain non-audit services to the in the preparation of its financial statements.
The Committee maintains under review the level and scope of support the ongoing adoption of the going concern basis and the non-audit work awarded to KPMG to ensure that any services provided are Committees conclusion supporting this is set out in the Performance within the constraints of the Audit Practices Boards Ethical Standards on and financial review on page 47.
Auditing and that the level of fees attached to these services are not sufficiently material such that it could be perceived to impact the auditors Viability statement independence and objectivity.
Non-audit engagements awarded to KPMG continued to be subject to strict Prior to the publication of the full-year results for 2016, the Committee controls agreed by the Audit Committee.
In summary, the Group Finance undertook a detailed assessment of the viability statement and Director is required to give prior approval of non-audit work to be carried recommended to the Board that the Directors can believe that they have out by KPMG and its associates in excess of a predetermined threshold.
In a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in addition, any such work incurring fees in excess of 250,000 is discussed operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period with me prior to its commencement.
These measures are designed to of their assessment.
Please refer to page 31 for the statement and ensure that other potential providers of the services required have been supporting details.
Non-audit services provided during 2016 related to tax advisory and other assurance services.
Details of audit and non-audit 1 Restated for the retrospective adjustment to provisional amounts recognised on fees paid to KPMG can be found in note 3 on page 104. acquisitions in 2015.
62 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | External audit tendering Non-audit fees 2016 KPMG was appointed as the Companys auditor at its inception in 1999.
TheCommittee has continued to monitor the independence and objectivity of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process througha range of measures discussed on pages 62 and 63.
The Committee has also kept under review the regulatory position in relation to the tendering of the external audit and rotation of the audit firm during Audit fees 1.4m or 88% of total 1.6m 2016, considering both the UK Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Non-audit fees 0.2m or 12% of total Total fees Regulations 2016 amending the Companies Act 2006 BIS Regulations and the audit tendering requirements of the UK Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order, both of which are applicable to the Company.
The transitional provisions of the BIS Regulations mandate that the Company cannot renew or enter into an audit engagement with its existing auditors inrelation to the financial year beginning 1 January 2024.
The transition provisions of the CMA Order prohibit the appointment of the Companys existing auditors, unless a competitive tender process has Non-audit fees 2015 taken place, inrelation to the same financial year.
The Audit Committee understands the value associated with a formal tender process and is committed to ensuring compliance with the above statutory and regulatory requirements.
In view of the changes in the regulatory position during the year as noted above, and the change in Group Finance Director with effect from 1 January 2017, the Committee now believes that it would be more appropriate to keep under review on an Audit fees 1.4m or 78% of total 1.8m annual basis the exact timing of a future audit tender.
The Committee will Non-audit fees 0.4m or 22% of total Total fees comply with the timings noted above and ensure that the Company does not renew or enter into an audit engagement with KPMG in relation to the financial year beginning 1 January 2024.
Internal audit The Groups internal audit function is currently outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function by monitoring the results of its work and the In December 2016, the Committee introduced a new policy on auditor responses of management to its recommendations.
In the interests of independence and non-audit services.
The new policy aims to ensure that increased efficiency and effectiveness, the Committee also ensures that our approach in 2017 remains in compliance with the Financial Reporting thework undertaken by the internal audit function complements the scope Councils revised Ethical Standard for Auditors, which is designed to agreed for the external audit.
implement the new EU Audit regulation restrictions on provision of The Committee reviewed and approved the 2016 internal audit plan at its non-audit services to public interest entities.
The new arrangements are meeting in December 2015 and continued to monitor progress against this applicable to the Group from 1 January 2017 and our new policy can be plan during the year.
Results and management actions arising from the viewed at www.
com or a copy obtained on request from the reviews undertaken in 2016 were discussed in detail at each of the Company Secretary.
In June 2016, the Committee also invited one of the KPMG also has in place strict requirements on rotation, with the lead audit Business Unit Finance Directors to attend the Committee meeting and partner required to rotate off the account after five years and other senior report back on some internal audit findings raised during one of the team members required to rotate after 10 years on the audit.
The Head of Internal Audit attended all of the Committees KPMG also provides the Committee with information on the safeguards it meetings during 2016 and held discussions with the Committee in the has in place to maintain its independence and objectivity in relation to the absence of Executive management.
In December 2016, the Committee provision of non-audit services to the Group.
undertook an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal audit function with reference to robustness of audits, quality of delivery and quality of Furthermore, at each of its meetings, the Committee holds discussions people and service.
Based on an approval score of 4.7 out of 5.0, the with the auditor, without management being present.
Based on these Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
safeguards the Committee remains confident of the independence and objectivity of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Risk management and internal control Auditor reappointment The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal Having considered the results of the 2016 external audit, feedback received control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control from the evaluation process, the Financial Reporting Councils Annual environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal Audit Quality Inspection Report into KPMG and the balance between audit control system.
The Board is also responsible for i determining the nature and non-audit services provided by KPMG, the Committee concluded that and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic KPMG continued to act as an independent, robust and cost effective objectives and, in this regard, the Board maintains risk management and auditor to the Group.
KPMG has indicated its willingness to continue in internal control systems and ii determining that the Groups systems for office and a resolution to reappoint KPMG as auditor will be proposed at risk management and internal control are appropriate and operating the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
As part of its terms of reference, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal control and risk management systems on behalf of the Board.
Key risks and uncertainties together with the associated mitigating controls relating to the Groups business are summarised on pages 32 to 37 of the Strategic report.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in Risk management the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the design, information, which includes key performance indicators and a summary of operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These key performance indicators are listed in the Strategic report on Risk, Robin Herzberg, is responsible for co-ordinating the reporting of pages 18 and 19.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board strategic risk issues across the Group, and for the oversight of risk considers the recommendations made by both the Executive Directors management and training.
Risk management is embedded into the Groups operational activities with Internal audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and effectiveness risk registers maintained for each project, business unit and the Group of internal controls over the key risks faced by the business and reports its as a whole.
Internal and external risks arising from a variety of sources, findings to management, the Executive Directors and the Committee.
including control breakdowns, disruption to information systems, Recommendations to improve the system of control made by internal audit competition, corporate social responsibility, natural catastrophes and are followed up on a regular basis.
regulatory requirements are monitored on a continuous basis.
Each Management has also implemented a system of peer reviews, under business unit has a formal risk co-ordinator, each of whom participates which the performance of individual contracts is reviewed by experienced in a quarterly risk forum chaired by the Group Head of Risk.
Based on the teams from other projects across the business.
Summaries of the peer output generated at these forums, the Group Head of Risk prepares a review reports were provided to, and reviewed by, the Committee.
The summary of the principal risks and associated mitigations, which is Committee is satisfied that the peer review process continues to work well submitted to the Board on a six-monthly basis.
The Groups risk and represents a very useful additional source of assurance for the management procedures are reviewed by its Internal Audit function on management and the Board.
The Group has also implemented a process of Control Risk SelfTo mitigate further the risks associated with significant new projects, the Assessment where Directors and senior managers are required to detail Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent and certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in their appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects business areas is appropriate.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that Committee see page 52.
This appraisal ensures that the differentiating risk management processes and appropriate controls are in place and are factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified, thus maximising operating effectively.
the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identified and considered.
Annual evaluation of Committee performance As part of the overall Board evaluation process the Committee reviewed Internal control and assurance processes its performance for 2016.
This evaluation considered areas such as the In order to protect the Companys assets, the interests of its stakeholders Committees processes and support, its time management and and provide mitigation against the risks and uncertainties relating to its composition, its effectiveness in reviewing the work undertaken by internal business, the Company maintains a comprehensive set of policies, and external audit and its effectiveness in reviewing internal control procedures and controls, including financial, operational and compliance systems, the quality of reporting and management of risk, and confirmed controls.
This section of the report summarises the key elements of the that the Committee continues to be highly effective in undertaking its Groups internal control framework, although it should be noted that the responsibilities.
Future priorities highlighted by this evaluation include: controls summarised below are designed to manage rather than eliminate Continue to closely monitor the impact of future accounting standards on risk and as such they provide reasonable but not absolute assurance the Groups financial statements against any material misstatement or loss.
Support the transition to the new Group Finance Director The Groups financial and operating activities are conducted in compliance Continue to focus on monitoring key judgements and internal control and with the procedures, policies and limits set by the Board.
Management has risk management processes.
also implemented procedures to ensure timely and accurate reporting of business performance by business units.
Regular performance review Review of risk management and internal meetings are held in which senior managers report to the Executive controls Directors on business performance against targets, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, including its risk The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the management procedures noted and discussed in this report, and reported sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including thereon to the Board.
Based on the Committees report, the Board capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and acquisitions and disposals.
This Committee has delegated authority up to managing the significant risks both financial and non-financial and specified levels of risk as determined by a risk assessment matrix, beyond including Corporate Social Responsibility risks faced by the Group which Board approval is required.
including joint ventures and overseas businesses.
The process has Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and procedure been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of documents regarding the authorisation levels for commitments, contract the Annual Report and Accounts and has been regularly reviewed by selectivity and bidding, the provision of guarantees and management the Committee.
accounting as well as for reporting and resolving suspected fraudulent I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the Committee activities.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential Whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party is available.
A monthly report on issues raised on the Whistleblowing hotline and subsequent investigations is compiled by the Whistleblowing and Fraud Committee and presented to the Audit Committee.
The Board has a policy to prosecute individuals found to have defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
To minimise the Andrew Dougal occurrence of fraud, learning points for management are identified and Chairman of the Audit Committee action plans implemented.
1 March 2017 64 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
