Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Corporate Governance report Division of responsibilities Leadership A clear division of responsibilities is important for the effective working of The Board the Board and to ensure that no one individual has unfettered power of decision.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive work together to The Board as a whole continues to take ownership of effective leadership provide effective and complementary stewardship.
The roles of the and the long-term success of the Company.
The management and Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Non-Executive governance framework, which the Board has implemented to support the Director are clearly defined as summarised below.
Companys long-term growth objectives, is set out on page 52.
The diverse range of skills and leadership experience offered by the Non-Executive Chairman Directors means that they are well qualified to scrutinise performance, assess the Groups risk management and control processes, provide Responsible for the composition and capability of the Board constructive challenge and to support the Executive Directors.
Responsible for the effective leadership and governance of the Board Biographical details for each of the Directors together with their Board Ensures Board and Committee meetings are used effectively by focusing responsibilities are set out on pages 50 and 51. on key areas and promoting a culture of openness and healthy debate Maintains regular contact with the Group Chief Executive providing The Board has 10 scheduled meetings during the year: additional meetings advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive as and are arranged if required.
The Board committee meetings are scheduled when appropriate around the regular Board meetings.
Works with the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary to In order to facilitate increased understanding of our overseas businesses establish the Boards 12-month rolling agenda amongst Board members and to provide local employees and Leads assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and each Director.
management with access to the Board, a Board meeting is held each year at an overseas operation.
Group Chief Executive Responsible for providing effective leadership to the Company Decision making Identification and analysis of strategic options for growth in Directors are required to attend each Board meeting and meetings of any shareholder value Committee of which they are a member.
In addition, other members of the Implementation of operating plans and budgets required to deliver the senior management team and the Groups advisers may, by invitation, agreed strategy attend meetings to address specific agenda items.
There is a formal Works closely with the Group Finance Director to ensure that the Group schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which is reviewed regularly to has in place an appropriate capital structure and risk management and ensure that it remains current.
Matters reserved for the Board include the internal control processes items summarised in the table below: Works closely with the Group Finance Director to ensure that the Group maintains effective relationships and communications with investors Risk management, Governance Strategy and direction accountability and control Responsible for delivery of ongoing operational performance against Review of Approval of strategy Approval of targets and continuous improvement in performance on safety and governance and annual budgets financialstatements, sustainability.
arrangements Authorisation of otherupdates to Appointments acquisition and themarketand Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to and removals disposal activity recommendations Available as the alternative point of contact for shareholders where from the Board Affirmation of risk ondividends communication through the Executive Directors or the Chairman may not Terms of reference management Approval of authority be appropriate for and strategies and risk levels, financial and Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and alternate Board contact membership of appetite treasury policies for other Directors where appropriate Board committees Review of internal Would chair Board meetings in the absence of the Chairman control and risk Leads the annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Chairman.
management Approval of Health The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Board and each of its and Safety policies Committees.
The Chairman maintains contact with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and the Company Secretary in relation to Board In addition, The Chief Executives Leadership Team CELT meets on a and governance matters.
In addition, the Chairman holds meetings with the monthly basis.
The CELT, led by Richard Howson, is responsible for Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The strategy development, operational and financial management and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director also holds meetings with the executive management of the Groups businesses.
In addition to Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present at least once a year.
Mr Howson, the CELT comprises the Group Finance Director, the Managing Directors of selected Business Units, the Group Development and Strategy Director, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary and Director of Legal Services.
The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operate within clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board and any matters outside these limits are referred to the Board for consideration.
Arrangements in relation to Directors indemnification and the management of conflicts are provided in the Directors report on page 83.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Corporate Governance report continued Appointments to the Board are managed by the Nominations Committee Effectiveness see page 58 for the Nominations Committees 2016 report.
In line with our succession plans, Richard Adam who completed nine years as a Board composition Director in April 2016, retired from the Board on 31 December 2016 and The Board and its Committees continue to benefit from an appropriate wassucceeded by Zafar Khan who was appointed Group Finance Director balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge of the on 1January 2017.
Company and its business sectors.
At 31 December 2016, the Board Ceri Powell has advised the Board that owing to international relocation to comprised two Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
take up an appointment as Managing Director of Brunei Shell Petroleum, The Board confirms that the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive she will with regret stand down from the Board on 31 March 2017.
Changes Directors are considered to be independent of management under the to the Board since 1 January 2016 are summarised in the table below: guidelines set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Date of Date of Director Position appointment resignation 71 per cent of Directors are independent Richard Adam Executive Director 2 April 2007 31 Dec 2016 Zafar Khan Executive Director 1 Jan 2017 N A Commitment All Directors are made aware at the time of appointment of the time commitment required to discharge their Board and Committee Independent 71% responsibilities effectively.
There is a formal job specification in place for Non-independent 29% the Chairman.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors will be available at the 2017 AGM and can, at other times, be inspected at the Companys registered office, Carillion House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR.
Recognising that external appointments can broaden experience and knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited number of such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
In addition to his role as Group Chief Executive, Richard Howson is a 29 per cent of Directors are female Non-Executive Director of John Wood Group PLC.
Zafar Khan does not hold any external appointments.
The Board is aware of current external commitments for all of the Non-Executive Directors who are also required to discuss any additions to these with the Chairman prior to their acceptance of any further external appointments.
Changes to the external commitments of the Non-Executive Directors during 2016 are summarised in the table below: Male 71% Female 29% Director 2016 changes to external commitments Keith Cochrane Retired as a Director of the Weir Group plc on 30 September 2016 Philip Green Stood down as Chairman Designate of Williams & Glyn Bank Limited All Directors were able to allocate sufficient time to their Board responsibilities during 2016 and this is expected to be the case in 2017.
58 per cent of Non-Executive Directors have been in role for Board meeting attendance less than four years The number of scheduled Board meetings attended by each Director together with the number of Board meetings that they were eligible to attend during 2016 and 2015 is summarised in the table below: 2016 2015 Member Attendance Eligibility Percentage Attendance Eligibility Percentage Richard Adam 10 10 100 10 10 100 1-4 years 58% Keith Cochrane 10 10 100 5 5 100 5-9 years 42% Andrew Dougal 10 10 100 10 10 100 Philip Green 10 10 100 10 10 100 Alison Horner 10 10 100 10 10 100 Richard Howson 10 10 100 10 10 100 Ceri Powell 10 10 100 10 10 100 Keith Cochrane was appointed to the Board on 2 July 2015.
54 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | This years overseas meeting was held in the Middle East and provided Board Committees Board members with an opportunity to visit some of our businesses To ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, the Board delegates andcontracts in the United Arab Emirates and in Oman and learn more certain matters to its Committees, which are required to consider these in about our strategy for the Middle East and North Africa from the local accordance with their terms of reference.
Occasionally, where it may be leadership team.
more expedient to do so, the Board may delegate certain of its powers to a sub-committee on an ad-hoc basis.
The terms of reference for each Board Committee are available on the Groups website www.
com investors and summarised in the following table.
Minimum Committee number of report for Committee Summary of terms of reference meetings 2016 Nominations Makes recommendations on 1 See Chaired by: appointments to the Board and page 58 Philip Green its Committees Reviews the Groups succession arrangements and overall Board composition to ensure the balance of skills and experience remains appropriate Business Reviews and oversees 2 See Integrity the development and page 59 Chaired by: implementation of the Groups Key areas of activity considered at Board meetings during 2016 are Philip Green Ethics and Business Integrity summarised in the table below: Policy Area of activity Frequency Agenda item Monitors the Groups Review of 1 Group Chief Executives report on safety and compliance with relevant financial and operational performance, work winning, legislation such as the operational human resources and market development Bribery Act 2010 and the performance Competition Act 1 Group Finance Directors report on financial Monitors the Groups performance, liquidity, investor relations, communication and training share price performance and supply chain programmes on ethics and 1 Reports from the Major Projects Committee business integrity 1 Reports on sustainability practice and Sustainability Reviews and approves policies, 4 See performance Chaired by: targets and performance in page 60 2 Review and approval of latest forecasts Ceri Powell relation to key sustainability and budgets initiatives Leadership, 2 Review and approval of the Groups Reviews and approves the governance three-year business plan annual Sustainability Report and strategy 2 Presentations on Group and business prior to publication unit strategy Monitors legislation and or 2 Review and approval of acquisition and regulations that might affect the disposal activity Group or its stakeholders and 2 Review of delegated authorities other matters which could 2 Review of policies such as sustainability, impact corporate reputation ethics and business integrity and the management of any such matters 2 Appointment of new Director and Engages with internal and succession planning external stakeholders on key 2 Consideration of reports from the Board sustainability themes Committees Audit Reviews and reports to the 3 See 2 Evaluation of the Board and its Committees Chaired by: Board on the Groups financial pages 2 Review of any conflicts of interest Andrew Dougal reporting to investors, internal 61 to 64 1 Review of Directors share dealings controls and risk management Accountability, 2 Review of 2016 half year report and 2015 processes control Annual Report and Accounts.
Approval of Makes recommendations to the and risk final dividend for 2015 and half year dividend Board on the appointment or management for 2016 reappointment of the external 2 Review of trading updates issued to auditor and monitors the the market effectiveness and independence 2 Consideration of reports from the Chairman of the external auditor of the Audit Committee on internal control Directs and reviews the work and risk management undertaken by the external and internal audit functions 2 Consideration of risk management procedures and key risks and uncertainties Remuneration Reviews and advises the 3 See facing the Group Chaired by: Board on remuneration pages Alison Horner arrangements for the Chairman, 65 to 81 Relations with 2 Consideration of matters relating to the AGM the Executive Directors and their shareholders 2 Consideration of feedback from investors direct reports received following release of our results or during routine meetings with Board members 1 Standing agenda item for all Board meetings.
2 Item tabled on a periodic basis or as and when necessary.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Corporate Governance report continued Induction and development Progress against key priorities identied during the 2015 review Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties and Priority Update obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all new Directors Oversee The Board continued to oversee the Groups receive induction training on their appointment covering such matters as development of operational and strategic development during the operation and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the Groups strategy for 2016, please see pages 8 and 9 for the Group Chief Companys corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also briefed growth Executives strategic overview for 2016 and pages by the Companys external advisers, where appropriate, on changes to 38 to 47 for the Group Finance Directors legislation, regulation or market practice as well as receiving briefings from Performance and operational review.
business units throughout the year.
Develop the Boards The 2016 evaluation confirmed that the Board As part of his induction, Zafar Khan received or undertook the effectiveness and remained highly effective with its performance following activities: manage membership having further improved during the year.
The succession retirement of Richard Adam, the long-standing A briefing on the responsibilities of a director of a public listed company successfully Group Finance Director was also successfully Briefings from senior management and operational leads managed in 2016.
Briefings from external advisers such as the corporate brokers Support the Succession and development of the executive team Site visits to major projects.
development of the continued to be a key area of focus for the Board The Directors are also encouraged to update their skills and knowledge senior management during 2016 and remains one of its ongoing regularly, including in relation to environmental, sustainability and team priorities for the future.
governance matters, and a procedure has been established whereby the Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in this For the 2016 evaluation, Lintstock initially engaged with the Chairman respect.
In pursuit of best practice, the Board receives presentations on and the Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and governance and regulatory matters.
The potential requirement for any subsequently reviewed and reported on the performance of the Carillion specific training in the light of new statutory or governance regulations is Board and Committees during the year.
Customised assessments, based kept under regular review.
on anonymous responses to an online survey, were undertaken for the Board as a whole and each of its Committees.
Topics addressed included Information and support Board composition, effectiveness of Board and Committee meetings, Committee structure and performance, strategy, succession, performance The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the financial monitoring, leadership and culture, remuneration, relations with performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group as a whole, shareholders and accountability.
together with reports on trading matters, markets, Health and Safety, sustainability and other relevant issues.
The performance of the Chairman and each Director was also reviewed as part of this evaluation process with the anonymity of respondents ensuring The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
an open and frank exchange of views.
The Senior Independent NonPrior to each Board or Committee meeting, the Company Secretary Executive Director led the evaluation of the Chairmans effectiveness.
At ensures that the relevant papers are made available to all Directors five the December 2016 Board meeting, the Directors reviewed the results of working days in advance of the meeting.
Since 2010, the Board has used the evaluation, which confirmed that the Board, each of its Committees and a secure electronic portal to receive Board papers.
The portal provides the Directors continue to be highly effective.
The evaluation confirmed that information in a timely and secure manner, enabling the Directors to the key priorities identified as part of the 2015 evaluation, including those in receive Board papers quickly and to access them via tablet devices, relation to succession management, development delivery of strategy and wherever they may be.
supporting the development of the senior management team, had been All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to effectively managed during 2016.
Some of the key strengths highlighted by the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules and the 2016 evaluation included Board composition and expertise, regulations are observed.
The Board approves the appointment and relationship between the Board and executive directors, strategic oversight removal of the Company Secretary.
provided by the Board, the Boards approach to risk management and internal control and its processes for managing succession planning and Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent human resource management.
The evaluation also confirmed that the professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
Boards performance and effectiveness had further improved during 2016.
Board and Committee performance evaluation The key priorities for the Board in 2017 were identified as follows: The Board undertakes a formal review of its effectiveness and that of its Support the transition to the new Group Finance Director Committees on an annual basis.
The 2016 performance evaluation was Support the Executive Directors with their delivery against key conducted by Linstock Limited, an independent corporate advisory firm, operational and strategic targets which the Board has used for a number of years to undertake the annual Continue to oversee the development of the Groups strategy for evaluation.
future growth Maintain ongoing focus on Board succession and development of the senior management team.
The Board intends to continue to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will submit themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 May 2017.
All of the Directors proposed for election or re-election have been subject to formal performance evaluation and continue to be effective members of the Board.
The Chairman has confirmed that each of the Directors remains committed to the role and to the time required for Board and, where applicable, Committee meetings and any other duties required of them.
56 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting AGM Accountability The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and encourages The Board remains committed to ensuring that its communications with their participation.
Shareholders are invited to attend the AGM each year shareholders continue to present a fair, balanced and understandable and to ask questions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Business Integrity, assessment of the Company and its prospects.
Both the Audit Committee Nominations, Remuneration and Sustainability Committees are present and the Board received drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts to at that meeting to answer questions on the work of the Committees.
facilitate review and to provide an opportunity for challenge and discussion.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Investors by type significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Groups business are Percentage of issued share capital summarised on pages 32 to 37 of the Strategic report.
The Board has an 77 held by: Audit Committee which monitors and reports on the Groups risk management systems.
The Audit Committee also considers how the Board Institutional 77% should apply corporate reporting and internal control principles and is Private 18% responsible for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys Other 5% 18 auditor, KPMG LLP.
The 2016 report of the Audit Committee is set out on 5 pages 61 to 64.
Remuneration Investors by geography Details relating to the Companys policy on remuneration together with the level and components of remuneration available to the Companys Directors are provided in the Remuneration Committees report on pages Percentage of issued share capital 65 to 81. held by: 69 UK 69% Dialogue with shareholders Europe 8% The Board is committed to ensuring that we continue to engage effectively 23 North America 23% with our shareholders to facilitate a mutual understanding of objectives.
8 Our Group Corporate Affairs Director, who reports to the Group Finance Director, is responsible for managing our investor relations programme.
The Executive Directors and the Group Corporate Affairs Director meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in order to foster the Investor concentration mutual understanding of objectives.
Where appropriate, meetings and requests for information are also Percentage of issued share capital 89 facilitated with other shareholders and prospective shareholders.
held by: Appropriate governance around disclosure of information is maintained 67 throughout our interaction with shareholders.
The details of these Top 10 investors 43% 43 meetings are reported to the Board and, in addition, the Board also Top 30 investors 67% receives formal investor feedback provided through the Groups corporate Top 100 investors 89% brokers following the release of our half year and full-year results.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available for meetings with representatives of major shareholders as required.
During 2016, we maintained an extensive investor relations programme.
Our half year and full-year results announcements, which involved a During the year under review, the AGM was held in May 2016 with each presentation to analysts, investors and banks, were given by our two member of the Board in attendance to answer questions.
Notice of the Executive Directors.
We issued trading updates in July and December, AGM and related papers were sent out more than 20 working days before which were followed on the day of the announcements by conference calls the meeting.
Separate resolutions were tabled on all substantively separate for analysts and investors, hosted by our two Executive Directors.
The Groups 2015 Remuneration Report was approved by 80.6 per we released on the Regulatory News Service, an AGM statement on cent of the votes cast and its 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were trading.
We also continued to offer meetings to institutional investors, both approved by 99.8 per cent of the votes cast.
shareholders and non-shareholders, and we continued to hold meetings The Company complies fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate or conference calls with all institutions that requested them.
In 2016, we met Governance Code September 2014 in respect of the notice, content of or held conference calls with over 130 institutions, around 50 per cent of agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of all which were attended by at least one Executive Director.
the Board Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2017 to respond to shareholders questions.
Philip Green Chairman 1 March 2017 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57
