Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Report of the Business Integrity Committee Dear Shareholder, Modern Slavery Act 2015 I am pleased to present the Business Integrity Committees report for the During 2016, we made good progress with the review of our policies and year ended 31 December 2016. procedures to ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 which came into force in October 2015.
Under this legislation, the Group will be High standards of ethics and business integrity are essential to achieving required to publish its first statement on its compliance with the consistently high standards of corporate governance and service requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the financial year ending excellence.
The Board has therefore implemented a formal ethics and 31 December 2016 by 30 June 2017.
The Modern Slavery Steering Group business integrity policy to ensure that the Group conducts its business MSSG, which the Committee established to ensure full compliance with to the highest ethical standards.
the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, includes multiOur ethics and business integrity policy sets out the Groups approach to a disciplinary and senior representation from each of our five business units.
number of compliance or ethical issues and the standards and behaviours The main areas of focus for the MSSG in 2016 included: the development that all Carillion employees are expected to meet wherever in the world we of a comprehensive communication plan, incorporation of modern slavery operate.
This policy provides guidance in relation to areas such as bribery, awareness into our whistleblowing processes, engagement on this topic fraud and corruption, gifts and hospitality, insider trading, conflicts of with our supply chain management teams and the provision of formal interest, ethical procurement, competition law, money laundering, human training on issues covered by the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
In order to rights and compliance with general laws and regulations.
For further details improve our focus on this topic we also engaged with the Anti-slavery on the Groups Business Integrity Policy see www.
Consequently, we believe that the Group is The implementation of our ethics and business integrity policy is overseen well placed to ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Modern by the Business Integrity Committee, and its effectiveness is reviewed Slavery Act 2015. annually by the Board.
Training and awareness Membership and attendance at meetings held The Ethics and Compliance Office continued to oversee the delivery of the during the year ended 31 December 2016 Groups regular compliance training programme during 2016.
The Group Meeting attendance Meeting attendance provides employees with face-to-face and online training, dependent upon 2016 2015 role and grade, to ensure that employees are aware of any new Eligible Eligible developments in Group policy and changes to laws and regulations.
This Member Appointed Attended to attend Attended to attend programme includes training in competition law, ethics, integrity and Philip Green 01.06.11 5 5 4 4 bribery and corruption.
During 2016, some 3,932 employees including Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 5 5 3 3 employees who joined the Group as part of our acquisition of the Outland Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 5 5 4 4 Group in 2015 received face-to-face or online compliance training.
Alison Horner 01.12.13 5 5 4 4 Ongoing refresher training is mandatory for all senior employees who are also required to complete an online assessment at least once every three Ceri Powell 02.04.14 5 5 4 4 years.
There were no changes to the Committees composition during 2016.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Compliance Manager are invited to Key priorities for 2017 attend the Committees meetings.
The main activities undertaken by the In 2017, the Committee will continue to monitor the delivery of training Committee during 2016 are summarised below.
under the Groups ongoing programme and ensure that its content remains relevant and up to date.
The Committee will also continue to Our commitment to ethics and compliance monitor external legal and regulatory developments and ensure these Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010, we established an Ethics are implemented across the Group on a timely basis.
This Office reviews and monitors compliance and aims to ensure that the Groups policies and procedures Annual evaluation aimed at maintaining high ethical standards remain effective.
In 2014, our As part of the overall Board evaluation process, the Committee reviewed formal policies and procedures in relation to ethics and integrity were its performance for 2016 which confirmed that it continues be highly externally benchmarked by the Institute of Business Ethics IBE as part of effective.
I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the our successful application to obtain the Investing in Integrity Charter Mark.
Committee at the AGM on 3 May 2017.
This award covers all of our businesses globally and we remain one of the largest businesses to have been awarded the Charter Mark which remains valid until 2019.
During 2016, we continued to collate best practice on ethics and compliance through our ongoing engagement with the IBE and other external companies and organisations.
We also continued to undertake regular risk assessments in light of external compliance failures, which we highlighted to colleagues across the Group to ensure that any risks relevant to our business are appropriately managed and any lessons learnt addressed.
The Ethics and Compliance Office reports to the Business Integrity Committee on key global compliance risks and functional activity.
Philip Green We also commenced a review of our existing policies and procedures to Chairman ensure that these remain in line with best practice.
1 March 2017 Our values To create a culture in which high standards of ethics and integrity are natural and instinctive, we promote, encourage and reward behaviours that reflect our core values.
We aim to ensure that our values, which are described on page 52, are at the heart of everything we do so that they define how we behave towards our colleagues, our customers, our partners and our suppliers, and how we approach every challenge and opportunity.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59
