Report of the Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder, Appointment of Group Finance Director I am pleased to present the 2016 report of the Nominations Committee.
In order to facilitate the search relating to the appointment of Zafar Khan, the Nominations Committee used the services of executive recruitment Succession management remains one of the Committees key priorities.
Egon Zehnder has no connections to the During 2016 the Committee successfully managed the process which Company other than the provision of services in relation to searches for culminated in Zafar Khans appointment as our new Group Finance new Directors.
Egon Zehnder has adopted the Voluntary Code of Director, following Richard Adams retirement on 31 December 2016.
Conduct for Executive Search Firms which, inter alia, is designed to This report provides a summary of the Committees work during 2016. improve gender balance on Boards.
The Nominations Committee prepared a summary of the key skills, Membership and attendance at meetings held experience and expertise it required from the new Group Finance Director.
during the year ended 31 December 2016 The Committees criteria for selection of the successor to Richard Adam included: relevant skills and experience, an ability to continue the Meeting attendance Meeting attendance 2016 2015 development of the finance function and an ability to support the Eligible Eligible development of the Groups strategy for growth, including the Member Appointed Attended to attend Attended to attend management of working capital and the Groups focus on reducing net Philip Green 01.06.11 4 4 2 2 borrowing.
Details of potential internal and external candidates were Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 4 4 0 0 provided by Egon Zehnder and initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings with the selected candidates were Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 4 4 2 2 then held with the Directors.
Having undertaken a detailed and thorough Alison Horner 01.12.13 4 4 2 2 process, the Committee agreed that Zafar Khan was the most appropriate Richard Howson 10.12.09 4 4 2 2 successor to Richard Adam and recommended his appointment to Ceri Powell 02.04.14 4 4 2 2 the Board.
The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and subject to knowledge and experience of the Board and makes recommendations to annual re-election.
Written terms and conditions in relation to the the Board with regard to any changes that are deemed desirable.
The appointment of all Non-Executive Directors will be available at the 2017 Committee also reviews succession planning to ensure that processes and AGM and can be inspected at the Companys registered office, Carillion plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
The House, 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, WV3 0SR.
Fees payable to Committee continues to be chaired by myself and its membership includes Non-Executive Directors are discussed in the Remuneration report on the independent Non-Executive Directors plus the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Human Resources Director attends certain meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Committees terms of reference are available Board diversity at www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board as a of the Board to ensure that it continues to represent the right balance of whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
skills, knowledge and experience, independence and diversity to support the future delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Committee recognises the Implementation of Board succession importance of gender diversity throughout the Group.
I was very pleased with the transition we achieved in relation to the Currently, two of the seven Board members are female.
While the appointment of Zafar Khan as Group Finance Director in succession to Committee will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the best people Richard Adam.
Having served on the Board since 2007, Richard Adam are appointed for the relevant roles, the benefits of greater diversity are retired as a Director on 31 December 2016.
In anticipation of this, the recognised and will continue to be taken into account when considering Committee led the process that resulted in the appointment of Zafar Khan any particular appointment.
Zafars appointment was announced in August 2016 in order to ensure a sufficient period of handover and transition prior to Richards Annual evaluation departure on 31 December 2016.
As part of the overall Board evaluation process, the Committee reviewed In January 2017, the Group announced that Ceri Powell will stand down its performance for 2016 and this confirmed that it continues to be highly from the Board on 31 March 2017 due to international relocation to take up effective.
Future priorities highlighted by this evaluation included a an appointment as Managing Director of Brunei Shell Petroleum.
Following continued focus on Board composition and executive succession within this the Committee has commenced its search to secure a new Nonthe Group.
Executive Director to join the Board.
I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the Committee at the AGM on 3 May 2017.
Philip Green Chairman 1 March 2017 58 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
