76 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board recognises the importance of keeping the market fully informed of the groups activities and of communicating openly and clearly with all stakeholders.
Compliance and corporate Dear shareholders governance committee I am presenting this corporate As at the date of this report, the governance report in my capacity compliance and corporate governance as chairman of the compliance and committee is chaired by Mark Bankes corporate governance committee, a and its members are Edward Haslam committee established by the board of and Mark Arnesen.
The committees primary functions, responsibilities and duties The activities undertaken during the are set out in the committee charter.
year included the following: ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE COMMENTARY Review of progress in respect to Whist the substantive merits of the case remain strong, the Concession Agreement court Law no.
32 which is legislation designed to protect appeal hearing see note 21 to the and encourage foreign investment should bring a financial statements resolution to this litigation in the Companys favour.
The committee monitors with interest the outcome of developments in the appeal challenging the validity Mark Bankes of Law no.
32 and reviews the litigation process in the Chairman of the compliance and Egyptian courts more widely.
corporate governance committee Review of progress in respect to The committee was disappointed with the State the DFO litigation see note 21 to Commissioners report produced in September this the financial statements year, however the report, which is non-binding, does not, in the committees view, impact the strong merits of our case.
Our legal advisers do not believe the report properly addresses the key arguments of the Companys case.
The committee continues to monitor progress in the Egyptian courts to resolve this dispute.
Monitoring of government The committee reviews key correspondence between relations relating to the Concession senior management and government.
With the Agreement and review of onset of profit sharing with the Egyptian government the timing and mechanism EMRA this year, the committee wishes to ensure of profit share that the process is properly managed in accordance with the Concession Agreement and that all parties continue to be treated fairly and equitably.
Review updates to the Companys The committee reviewed the impact of MAR and the policies and procedures following consequent amendments to policies and procedures.
the introduction of the Market There were no significant substantive changes to Abuse Regulation MAR the protocols already in place and the committee considered the Companys policies particularly in respect of disclosure and securities trading which were already more robust than those mandated by MAR.
Assisting with discussions on The committee agreed to place the existing disclosure public announcements through committee on a more formal footing.
the disclosure committee Review of the reporting and The committee is active in the review of public disclosure requirements required disclosures and continue to review and comment on by the LSE and TSX such disclosures to ensure messaging and information is clear and understandable to the market.
77 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT Shareholder communication Key shareholder and investor relations activities held throughout this financial year: All shareholders are encouraged to DATE ACTIVITY attend our AGM on 21 March 2017, January and February 2016 Investor conference, London which will be held in Jersey.
This Investor conference, South Africa will be an excellent opportunity to meet board members and our senior March and April 2016 Investor marketing, North America management team.
Investor marketing, London Analyst site visit, Sukari The board of directors aims to ensure that shareholders are provided with May to September 2016 Analyst and investor conference calls important information in a timely Roadshow, Scotland manner via written and electronic Conference, Denver communications.
October and November 2016 Analyst and investor conference calls The chairman, CEO, senior Investor marketing, London independent non-executive director and deputy chairman as well as The board recognises the importance our head of investor relations, of keeping the market fully informed communicate with major shareholders of the groups activities and of on a regular basis through face-to-face communicating openly and clearly with meetings, telephone conversations, all stakeholders.
The Company has a and analyst and broker briefings to formal continuous disclosure policy to help better understand the views of the ensure this occurs.
Any material feedback of the board, known as the continuous is then discussed at board level.
In disclosure committee, monitors and particular, the feedback from certain advises on the Companys continuous of the proxy advisory companies, disclosure obligations.
All actions which provide guidance and voting and decisions of the sub-committee recommendations to shareholders, are presented to the compliance and is discussed by the board.
corporate governance committee at the next available meeting.
Shareholder communication is The committee report to the board maintained through the following on any matters discussed by the key information channels: disclosure committee.
the annual report: Details of the Companys policies the notice of annual general and procedures can be found on the meeting and management Companys website.
information circular: the annual general meeting: Mark Bankes the annual information form: Chairman of the compliance and quarterly and half-yearly financial corporate governance committee and operational reports: continuous disclosure requirements 1 February 2017 and regulatory announcements: webcasts on quarterly and annual financial and operational results: the Companys website: registrar services: and electronic and postal notifications.
