78 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION REPORT The committee was focused this year on succession planning, to ensure that the key personnel within the organisation had the support and training to allow them to reach their potential.
Dear shareholders Following the resignation of our former CFO, the committee was actively I am presenting this report as involved in the recruitment process chairman of the nomination to identify and appoint a new chief committee, a committee established financial officer.
Ross Jerrard was by the board of the Company.
appointed and joined the Company on 18 April 2016.
A key consideration The committee played an active role of the committee was the support and in the review of succession plans and training needed for Ross as an officer assessing progress to fill key vacancies of the Company.
The committee considered the The committee also considered the proposal to appoint Trevor Schultz role and responsibility of the chairman, as a member of the remuneration Josef El-Raghy and the CEO, Andrew committee and nomination committee, Pardey who was appointed CEO and Edward Haslam as a member on 1 February 2015.
The interplay of the HSES committee.
The G Edward Haslam between chairman and CEO is Chairman of the nomination committee appointments followed the resignation important and the committee spent of Kevin Tomlinson in May 2016.
In time with both individuals to ensure both cases, the committee evaluated their roles were defined and the new the composition, experience, balance CEO had the required support of the and skill set on each of the committees.
Further details are set out opposite.
79 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT The committee met three times during In 2016, the nomination committee and the year and held one meeting by way the board discussed the need for any of written resolution.
The committee new appointments to the board, either undertook the following activities: through the process of succession planning or external appointments reviewed the board succession plans and determined that no changes or and progress to fill vacancies among additions were necessary at this time.
the senior management team: Discussions of this nature will continue made recommendations to in 2017. the board on the appointment The report provides more detail on the to the committees and senior activities, decisions and policies of the management: nomination committee and the board.
made recommendations as to the structure, size and composition of the board and board committees: Edward Haslam reviewed the competencies, skills, Chairman of the nomination committee knowledge and experience of 1 February 2017 directors: made recommendations for the appointment and re-election of directors to the board: considered the requirements for board diversity including gender and ethnic diversity : and reviewed the policy on senior and executive recruitment and succession planning.
80 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION REPORT continued Nomination committee However, women do still account for Performance evaluation a small percentage of the workforce, As at the date of this report, the The senior independent non-executive particularly in Egypt where only 1% nomination committee comprises director held meetings with the of the Egyptian workforce are female.
Edward Haslam chairman and non-executive directors without the This is mainly due to social conditions Mark Arnesen, both of whom executive directors present, providing in Egypt and in the Middle East where are independent non-executive feedback to the full board.
These in general, female employees are not directors, and Trevor Schultz, who is a meetings focused primarily on the encouraged to work at remote sites.
non-executive director of the Company.
evaluation of the boards performance, Trevor was appointed on 1 October a performance evaluation of the A greater percentage of women are 2016 following the resignation of chairman and CEO, discussing the employed throughout the group in Kevin Tomlinson in May 2016. quality of reporting and information the administrative offices and at the flows to the board and discussions on Companys headquarters and onsite in Board diversity the strategic aims and objectives for Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Of our The board set out its updated policy on the group.
West African employees, over 10% are recruitment, the selection process and women working in Ouagadougou as The board is assisted by the succession planning in the 2015 annual geologists based at camp.
Across the nomination committee on its report and further considered the Company, a number of women hold evaluation of the non-executive recommendations of the nomination senior positions in the areas of legal, directors.
An external facilitator was committee both in connection with accountancy, HSES and subsidiary appointed in May 2016 to assess the recruitment policy, selection process directorships.
The last and succession planning in 2016. review by an external facilitator was In developing the Companys policy on In particular, in connection with board carried out in May 2013.
A summary of diversity, the board has considered the diversity, the boards position is that, the review can be seen in the corporate requirements of the Code and National whilst all appointments should be governance section on page 70.
Instrument 58-101. continued to be made on merit, The non-executives also discussed female candidates will continue to The board, through the recommendations openly with the executive directors, be considered routinely as part of of the nomination committee, will the areas they could assist further with the recruitment process.
It remains provide an update on the recruitment in relation to business development, the boards intention to identify a process in future reporting disclosures.
succession planning and strategy suitable female candidate as part of Details of the current composition of relating to the appointment and the recruitment process as and when the board and the wider management retention of key personnel.
the need arises for a new appointment team are set out in the directors report.
In addition, and as part of our succession planning, the committee will continue to appoint and encourage female professionals to apply for managerial positions to ensure a progressive pipeline of talent within the Companys management and senior management team.
81 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT An evaluation of the board and its In respect to the appointment of senior management and executive committees was undertaken during the Trevor Schultz, the committee was appointments, retention and salary year and was concluded in March 2016. aware of the Corporate Governance as well as identifying key candidates The board, in conducting its evaluation, Code the Code which requires and existing team members for reviewed the activity, composition three independent non-executives succession planning.
The proposal to and expertise of the committees and to be appointed to the remuneration appoint Trevor Schultz as a member considered their effectiveness taking committee.
The committee noted of the remuneration and nomination account of the following: that as a former executive director committees was proposed by the who served on the board between committee and ratified by the board the responsibilities set out in their May 2008 and May 2014, Trevor in August 2016. respective charters: Schultz was not considered to be The appointment of Edward Haslam activities carried out during the year, independent.
as a member of the HSES committee taking account of their mandated The committee gave due was considered by the committee and duties and responsibilities: consideration to Trevors experience approved by the board in August 2016. progress made in respect of their and expertise and the composition The committee and the board duties and responsibilities: of the remuneration and nomination considered Edwards experience and attendance and contribution to the committees, and recommended expertise and the composition of the committees: and his appointment as a member of HSES committee.
reporting and updates provided to the remuneration and nomination the board.
The committee continues to work committees, notwithstanding the closely with the chairman and technical breach of the Code.
The board reviewed its own CEO to ensure that the roles and membership and performance The committee noted that Trevor has responsibilities are clearly defined, and this review was concluded in been integral to the establishment of and that the CEO has the required December 2016.
Sukari as a globally significant gold support of the board and senior mining operation, and oversaw the management to undertake the The nomination committee had construction of the Stage 4 process role effectively.
recommended to the board the plant.
He has a unique vantage point following key appointments: The performance of all directors is into the workings of the operation, constantly reviewed by the chairman appointment of Ross Jerrard as CFO what the mine is capable of achieving and, periodically, by the nomination as an officer of the Company, who and also knows the challenges faced committee.
The Company deployed joined in April 2016: in operating the first modern mine a formal process for evaluation of the appointment of Trevor Schultz on in Egypt.
With these attributes, board, the board members, the board the remuneration and nomination the committee considered that committees and the chairman during committees as a member of the Trevor Schultz will add significant the relevant period led by the senior committees : and value, particularly when setting independent non-executive director.
appointment of Edward Haslam on challenging but realistic performance the HSES committee as a member targets and critically assessing the The board has also had training of the committee.
achievements of senior management sessions on various topics during the and executive directors.
In particular, year, carried out by external legal Details of the appointment process with a working knowledge of the mine advisers.
Topics included a regulatory for the role of CFO an officer of the and practical experience, he is well update, recent case law discussions Company are set out in the 2015 positioned to guide the committee and an update on the new Market annual report.
on some of the key nomination and Abuse Regulation.
