GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors Statements Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange for the year covered by this statement are contained in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, and a copy is available on its website www.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Board considers that the Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code.
Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months from the date of signing these accounts.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 1 to 32 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, are described on pages 28 to 32.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in Note 21 of the financial statements.
Viability The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties set out on pages 22 to 27.
Based on this assessment, and having considered the established controls for the risks, and the available mitigating actions, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 2019.
For more information on the viability assessment, please see pages 49 to 50 of the Audit Committee Report.
Robust Assessment of Principal Risks The Directors consider they have undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Please refer to pages 22to 27 for further information on the Companys Principal Risks and Uncertainties, and their impact on the prospects of the Company.
Review of Internal Control and Risk Management The Directors have carried out a review of internal control and risk management.
Please refer to pages 45 to 47 for further information.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 38 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Application of Code Principles B.
6 Board and Committee Performance Evaluation The information below explains how the Company has applied The Board and its Committees have this year undertaken the main principles of the Code.
The information required to an external evaluation of their respective performances, in be disclosed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR accordance with the Code.
Details of the evaluation can be 7.2.
6 is set out in the Directors Report on pages 73 to 77 and found on page 42. is incorporated into this statement by reference.
Leadership All Directors are subject to shareholder election or re-election A.
1 The Role of the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board met formally seven times during the year including a strategy day and held other meetings on an ad hoc basis C. Accountability as required.
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting the Board, together with delegated authorities throughout the The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 32 and provides Group.
information about the performance of the Group, the business model, strategy and the principal risks and uncertainties A.
2 Division of Responsibilities relating to the Groups future prospects.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control effectiveness of the Board and for overseeing the Boards The Board decides the Groups risk appetite and annually setting of strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and for leading the day-to-day management of the Group and the internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit Committee, implementation of the strategy.
which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to the management of risk, are summarised on page 49.
3 The Chairman The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors the meeting timetable in conjunction with the Company The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Secretary and facilitates open and constructive dialogue Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the during the meetings.
Groups financial reporting processes, internal control and risk A.
4 The Role of the Non-Executive Directors management framework, the work undertaken by the External The Chairman promotes an open and constructive Auditor, and the internal audit work of PwC and the Risk and environment in Board meetings and actively invites the NonAssurance Team.
The Chair of the Audit Committee provides Executive Directors views.
The Non-Executive Directors regular updates to the Board.
provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management and meet during the year in the absence of the D. Remuneration Executive Directors.
D. 1 Level and Components of Remuneration The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration B.
Effectiveness appropriately with a view to ensuring the long-term success B.
1 The Composition of the Board of the Company, and structures remuneration so as to link it to The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly both corporate and individual performance, thereby aligning reviewing the composition of the Board.
In making managements interests with those of the shareholders.
appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee Benchmarking exercises are carried out as appropriate considers the wide range of skills, knowledge, independence by external advisers to ensure remuneration levels are and experience required in order to maintain an effective appropriate.
D. 2 Procedure for Development of Remuneration Policy and B.
2 Appointments to the Board Setting Remuneration Packages The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Further details of the activities of the approach to setting the remuneration policy and packages Nomination Committee can be found on pages 43 and 44. can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72.
3 Time Commitment On appointment, Directors are notified of the time E. Relations with Shareholders commitment expected from them and details are set out in E. 1 Shareholder Engagement and Dialogue their letter of appointment.
External directorships of Executive The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders.
Directors, which may impact existing time commitments, are The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with discussed and cleared by the Chairman.
shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept informed of shareholder views.
4 Development All Directors receive induction training on joining the Board E. 2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting and, as part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, the The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity to development needs of each Director are checked.
meet with shareholders, who are invited to meet the members of the Board informally following the formal business of the B.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely information.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 39
