GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued As I reported last year, the Committee instigated an audit tender process in February 2016.
The audit had not been tendered since the Group listed in 2007 and, following the completion of the integration with Cinema City, it was considered to be an appropriate time to proceed with the tender.
Led by the Committee, a tender document was distributed in February 2016 to four firms.
Our assessment criteria included capability, understanding of key issues pertinent to the business, experience, independence, cultural fit, and an assessment of the overall audit approach and quality.
After careful consideration and discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Board that KPMG should be reappointed.
During the year, the Committee continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
As in 2015, the Group has been supported in the delivery of the internal audit programme by PwC, who have I am pleased to present this Report led on all aspects of the programme, including internal audit, ontheactivities of the Audit Committee cinema compliance, risk management and financial controls.
In August, we were pleased to welcome Cineworlds new Head for the year.
This entailed a change in approach so that PwCs role became that of a supporting co-source provider with their focus directed towards risk based internal audits and Chair Julie Southern financial controls reviews.
This strengthening of the in-house Committee Dean Moore, Alicja Kornasiewicz team was further bolstered by the appointment of a new Head members Martina King left the Committee in of Tax, a Group role that will further enhance the structure of January 2017 but served for the whole of the international finance team.
the financial period Number of Throughout the year and supported by the Risk and Assurance meetings held team, we have reviewed our Principal Risks, including a in 2016 5 review of the potential impact on our business model, future The Company Secretary acts as Secretary performance, solvency and liquidity.
We have also reviewed to the Committee.
and assessed managements proposals in relation to the Going Concern and Viability Statements.
More details of our work on these areas may be found on page 49.
Audit Committee Report A key focus for the Committee is the consideration of the Chairs Introduction significant risks, issues and areas of judgement in relation Dear Shareholders to the financial statements.
We have worked closely with I am pleased to present this report on the activities of the management and the External Auditor to ensure that we Audit Committee for 2016.
The report sets out details of the have a firm understanding of these issues, so that we can work undertaken by the Committee during the year to support develop clear views on how they should be addressed.
Areas the Board in its oversight and monitoring of the robustness of significance for 2016 include accounting for the acquisition and integrity of financial reporting, providing assurance on of five Empire cinemas, the valuation of property, plant and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal equipment, and onerous lease provisions.
Further details of control systems, and in the appointment and supervision of our formal position on these areas may be found on page the external auditor.
Our Committee evaluation was conducted by an external facilitator this year, in accordance with the Code, and I am pleased to note that the evaluation confirmed that the Committee is considered to be performing well, and providing strong support to the Board.
Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Martina King for her significant contribution to the Audit Committee over the years, and to welcome Dean Moore, who became a member of the Committee in January 2017.
With his extensive experience and strong financial background, I am sure Dean will be a great asset.
Julie Southern Chair of the Audit Committee | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 48 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Composition received and discussed in the absence of management, For the duration of the year, the Committee comprised where appropriate reports from the External Auditor three independent Non-Executive Directors namely Julie in respect of their review of the interim results, the audit Southern Chair, Martina King, and Alicja Kornasiewicz.
Julie plan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
is a Chartered Accountant and is considered by the Board to These reports included the scope for the interim review have recent and relevant financial experience.
On 11 January and annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the 2017, Non-Executive Director Dean Moore took up a place on External Auditor to evaluate and conclude on key areas the Committee, following the stepping down of Martina King.
of the audit, their assessment of materiality, the terms of Dean Moore is considered by the Board to have recent and engagement and raising awareness to the Committee relevant financial experience, and is also considered to be of the likely impact of future changes to regulation and independent.
accounting standards: monitored the performance of PwC as the Internal The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Auditor and, from August 2016, the work of the Risk Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other senior and Assurance team, reviewed the effectiveness of executives, other Directors, the Head of Risk and Assurance, the Groups internal financial controls together with its the Internal Auditor, and the External Auditor may be invited broader internal control and risk management framework, to attend meetings, but are not members.
to ensure consistent and appropriate financial controls across the Group: Roles and Responsibilities monitored the implementation of the Groups internal The Committee has a clear set of responsibilities that are audit plan for 2016, including further embedding the risk set out in its Terms of Reference, which are available on management framework, the risk based assurance plan the Companys website www.
com about-us for our financial control environment and our Group-wide corporate-governance.
The Committee assists the Board cinema compliance programme: in discharging its responsibility with regard to financial reviewed the results of non-financial audits including reporting, the control environment, the work of the External food hygiene and fire safety and where applicable agreed and Internal Auditors, and the Risk and Assurance Team, enhancements to procedures and reviewed remedial including: actions: monitoring the financial reporting process: made recommendations to the Board with regard to reviewing the integrity of the Annual and Interim Reports, continuing the appointment and remuneration of the including reviewing significant financial judgements External Auditor, and as part of the external audit tender therein: process in the early part of 2016, oversaw the Groups reviewing the Groups risk assessment process, the output relations with the External Auditor, determined their of that assessment and the associated risk management independence and monitored the effectiveness of the systems: audit process: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal discussed the requirements for a longer-term viability controls: statement and the related assessment work to enable the considering the scope of both the Internal and External Board to make such a statement: Auditors activities, their reports and their effectiveness: continued to monitor the ongoing requirements regarding reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit audit tender: and work undertaken by the External Auditor: and reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
Going Concern The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the In recommending the adoption of the going concern basis Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board.
for preparing the financial statements, the Audit Committee considered the business activities, as well as the Groups What the Committee did in 2016 principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 22 The Audit Committee met five times during the year, during to 27, the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, which time it: liquidity position, and borrowing facilities, as well as the monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing the interim and annual financial statements including capital, as described on pages 28 to 32 and the financial risk the preliminary announcement with particular reference management objectives, details of financial instruments and to accounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity together with significant estimates and financial reporting risk as set out in Note 21 of the financial statements.
judgements and the disclosures made therein: considered the interim results and the Annual Report and Viability Accounts in the context of the requirement that they are Part of the Audit Committees work in the year has been to fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing papers discuss and consider the requirement under the Code for a prepared by management with regard to this principle.
longer-term viability statement, and the related assessment This included reviewing the documents to ensure that work needed in order to enable the Directors to make such a the description of the business agrees with its own statement.
understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern the Group, the discussion of performance properly Following work overseen by the Audit Committee, in reflects the relevant period and that there is a clear link accordance with the Code, the Directors have assessed the between all the areas of disclosures: viability of the Group over a period longer than one year, taking into account the Groups current position and the | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 49 GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued potential impact of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties set reducing capital expenditure, reducing dividend payments out on pages 22 to 27. and reducing variable costs as well as the Groups ability to change its capital structure if necessary through refinancing The Directors have determined that a three year period existing debt facilities and or raising equity finance.
constitutes an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement based on the Groups strategic forecast The Directors Viability Statement is set out on page 38. period which is driven by the visibility of the future film slate, the Groups property expansion and renovation plans, Significant Issues Considered in Relation to the investment in technology and relationships with the film Financial Statements distributors.
During the year the Committee, management and the External Auditor considered and concluded on what the The Groups business model and strategy are central to an significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial understanding of its prospects, and details can be found on statements and how these would be addressed.
The nature of the Groups activities is longterm, and the business model is open-ended.
The Groups i Accounting for the Acquisition of Five Empire Cinemas current overall strategy has been in place for several years, On 11 August 2016, the Group completed the acquisition of five subject to the ongoing monitoring and development.
Empire cinemas from Cinema Holdings Limited.
Full details of the acquisition are disclosed in Note 15.
The provisional The Directors viability assessment has taken into goodwill determined in respect of the acquisition is 60.6m.
consideration the potential impacts of the principal risks in the business model, future performance, solvency and Given the complex and judgemental nature of the valuation liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating exercise, and relating assumptions, the Committee believe actions such as reducing capital expenditure and dividend the acquisition accounting should be identified as a payments.
significant accounting issue for the 2016 financial statements.
For the purpose of assessing the Groups viability, the Based on the Committees enquiries of management and the Directors identified that, of the principal risks detailed on review of work performed by external valuation experts, the pages 22 to 27, the following are the most important to the Committee satisfied themselves that: assessment of the viability of the Group: the fair value of the acquired total identifiable net assets Availability and performance of film content: with particular reference to intangible assets, property, Viewer experience and competition: and plant and equipment and acquired leases was consistent Expansion and growth of our cinema estate.
with the advice received from external experts and the terms of the sale and purchase agreement: Based on the principal risks identified above, scenario-based the fair value exercise was thorough and included all assessments were performed for the Group.
The scenarios categories of assets and liabilities including all lease applied included: contracts : management have performed detailed Balance Sheet Reducing both admissions, average ticket price, and retail reviews and are satisfied that classification of balances is spend as a result of lack of film content, and or increased correct and that recognition is appropriate and in line with competition through the emergence of new technology the Groups accounting policies: and or alternative formats to watch films: the subjectivity of the valuation process, including the Reducing margins through increased film costs, or extent of fair value adjustments, was appropriately increased labour costs: disclosed in the annual financial statements.
No further expansion of the cinema estate: and A combination of the above.
ii Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment PPE As detailed in Note 9 to the financial statements, there In performing the scenario assessments, with a decrease is a significant inherent risk that elements of the Groups in revenues and increase in costs at far greater levels than considerable PPE balances may prove to be irrecoverable, previously experienced by the Group and no further expansion, due to fluctuations in the underlying performance of cinemas the Group would still be able to continue to meet its day-to-day or one-off events.
Given the number of factors involved liabilities as they fall due over the three year period.
in predicting the performance of cinema sites operated by the Group, in multiple territories, this gives rise to an Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that the element of judgement being applied to the potential level Group may face, the Directors consider that the scenarioof impairments to be recognised on a cash generating units based assessment prepared of the Groups prospects is CGU basis, predominantly at cinema site level.
reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
At each Balance Sheet date, management prepares an assessment which estimates the value in use of the The Directors believe the risk management and internal cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets control systems in place allow them to monitor the key are allocated.
Where individual sites cash flows are not variables that have the ability to impact the liquidity and considered independent from one another, mainly due to solvency of the Group and are confident that management strategic or managerial decisions being made across more are able to sufficiently mitigate any situations should than one site, they may be combined into a single cash they arise.
Mitigating actions that could be taken include generating unit.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 50 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in In the prior year, Virtual Print Fee VPF recognition was respect of future cash flows and the discount rate applied.
included as a significant issue for the UK and Ireland due The main assumptions over growth rates, the impact of to the complexity of the contract, however as the revenue one-off events, expected cost increases and discount ceased during the year and as the final amount received rates are updated to reflect managements best estimate.
in the year is not material to the 2016 financial statements When considering the appropriateness of the discount rate, the Committee determined this is no longer considered a management assess the territory specific discount rate, and significant issue for the Group.
ensure that they are updated for current market information and the Groups current leverage.
External Audit The Committee reviews the appointment of the External At the year end management prepared their valuation Auditor each year before the cycle of audit commences and models for the Committees consideration, together with in deciding whether to renew the appointment takes note their proposed site impairments and drew the Committees of the quality of the service received, the proposed fees and attention to any specific judgements taken within the the Auditors independence.
Management and all members models.
Management confirmed to the Committee that they of the Committee are consulted during the process.
Further have applied a consistent Group-wide methodology, in the details of these processes are set out below.
preparation of the valuation models.
The Committee satisfied itself that the approach was appropriate, the assumptions Effectiveness reasonable and that the impairments proposed were During the year, the Committee evaluated the performance complete and accurate.
The Committee also satisfied itself and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed their effectiveness through enquiry of management and review of the Board as External Auditor.
The effectiveness of the 2015 audit was papers that all significant events which may have impacted assessed by reference to the following: on the valuation of PPE had been appropriately captured in managements assumptions and reflected in the valuation the effectiveness of the lead audit engagement partner, models and that appropriate disclosures, including in relation including the support provided to the Audit Committee: to sensitivities, had been included in the financial statements.
the planning and scope of the audit including identification of areas of audit risk and communication of iii Onerous Lease Provisions any changes to the plan, and changes in perceived audit Provisions are made for onerous leases in the Group where risks: it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease the quality of communication with the Audit Committee, obligations are in excess of the economic benefits expected including the regular reports on accounting matters, to be received from operating the site.
As detailed in Note 1 governance and control: to the financial statements, the approach to estimating the the competence with which the External Auditor handled onerous lease provision has remained consistent with the key accounting and audit judgements and communication prior year.
of those to management and the Committee: their reputation and standing, including their The number of onerous lease sites within the Group has independence and objectivity and their internal quality continued to decrease each year and the balance has also procedures: and reduced to 2.4m as at 31 December 2016.
Consideration the quality of the formal report to shareholders.
was given to whether this remains a significant risk by the Committee.
As the balance remains material, and the models Further, at the conclusion of each years audit, the Committee used by management are sensitive to the inputs including discusses the performance of the External Auditor with the changes in performance of individual sites, it was concluded Executive Directors and relevant senior finance managers this should remain as a significant accounting issue for the considering areas such as the quality of audit team, business current year.
understanding, audit approach and management.
Where appropriate, actions are agreed against points raised Management evaluate the appropriateness of the provision and subsequently monitored for progress.
There were no on at least an annual basis.
The exercise involves reviewing significant findings from the evaluation this year.
forecast future cash flows on a site-by-site basis and ensuring that the provision in place remains at an appropriate After taking into account all of the above factors, the level for any sites identified as having an onerous lease.
As Committee concluded that the External Auditor was effective.
well as considering site performance, management also In addition, the Committee is satisfied that it has sufficient consider the appropriateness of the discount rates applied, oversight of the External Auditor and its independence and the territory specific discount rate, and ensure that they are objectivity is not compromised due to the safeguards in place.
updated for current market information and the Groups current leverage.
Independence, Appointment and Tender The Audit Committee instigated a tender process in Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that the February 2016.
The audit had not been tendered since the methodology had been applied consistently year-on-year.
Group listed in 2007 and, following the completion of the Management confirmed that they have monitored the integration with Cinema City, it was considered to be an adequacy of the provision historically and concluded that appropriate time to proceed with the tender.
there have been no material unprovided costs or unrequired provision identified.
Led by the Audit Committee, a tender document was distributed in February 2016 to four firms, being Deloitte, Ernst & Young, KPMG and BDO, in respect of the 2016 audit.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 51 GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued Assessment criteria included capability, understanding of key The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess issues pertinent to the business, experience, independence, whether, in their professional opinion, they are independent cultural fit of the proposed teams including the proposed and confirm this to the Committee.
KPMG has provided teams in key locations, and an assessment of the overall this confirmation.
In addition, the Company considers it has audit approach and quality.
After careful consideration and complied with the Competition and Markets Authoritys discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Statutory Audit Services Order.
Board that KPMG be reappointed.
Non-Audit Services In addition, following the conclusion of the 2015 audit, the The Committee considers the independence of the External Companys lead audit partner, Mark Summerfield, was due to Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to rotate off the audit of the Group and be replaced as Senior consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the Statutory Auditor by Hugh Green.
The rotation of the Senior External Auditor to perform non-audit services.
In particular, Statutory Auditor occurred as planned and the Committee under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work needs considers Hugh Green to have the requisite substantial, to be approved by the Committee if the value of such work relevant experience.
is likely to be greater than 30,000.
KPMG have provided certain non-audit services to the Group, principally in respect The Company will continue to comply with the relevant of advice on tax compliance and advisory services 0.2m tendering and auditor rotation requirements applicable and pensions advisory services 0.2m.
The Committee under UK and EU regulations, which require the next is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by KPMG external audit tender to occur by 2026.
In addition, the and their objectivity has not been impaired by reason of this External Auditor will be required to rotate the audit partner further work.
More information on the Non-Audit Services responsible for the Group audit every five years and, as may be found in Note 4 of the financial statements.
a result, the current lead audit partner will be required to change in 2021.
The Committee continues to review the auditor appointment and the need to tender the audit.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 52
