GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued Leadership The Board The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable financial performance to enhance shareholder value.
In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial and other resources are available to enable the Groups objectives to be met.
The basis on which the Board seeks to preserve value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 32.
The Board meets regularly at least six times a year and also once for a strategy day.
Ad hoc meetings of the Board take place as required.
The meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
The Board also meets, as and when necessary, to discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues.
All Directors receive notice of such meetings and are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board has been agreed and adopted.
These matters include: setting Group strategy: approving an annual budget and medium-term forecasts: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: approval of site selection: succession planning: approving appointments to the Board and of the Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management accounts and an overview of Group financial and operational information.
Regular briefings by the management team are given to the Board, to deepen the collective understanding of the business, leading in turn to more effective debate.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Moshe Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation of the Board and he, when appropriate, discusses matters with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
He holds regular meetings with his executive team.
Board Committees In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed three Committees, an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a Remuneration Committee, to which certain Board functions have been delegated.
Each of these Committees has formal written terms of reference which clearly define their responsibilities.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards three Committees are available on the Companys website www.
Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees During the financial year, there were no changes to the membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Membership was as follows: Chair Member Member Audit Committee Julie Southern Martina King Alicja Kornasiewicz Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Remuneration Committee Martina King Rick Senat Julie Southern All the Committees remained compliant with the Governance Code as regards their membership during the year.
Changes to Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees since the Year End On 11 January 2017, Martina King stepped down as a Director on the Board, including as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and as a member of the Audit Committee.
Dean Moore, who was appointed to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 11 January 2017, took over as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and also became a member of the Audit Committee.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 40 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Attendance at Meetings The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Board including Audit Remuneration Nomination strategy day Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 7 5 4 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Directors for the whole year 1 2 2 2 Anthony Bloom 7 7 5 5 4 4 2 2 Israel Greidinger 7 7 N A N A N A Moshe Greidinger 7 7 N A N A N A 1 Martina King 7 7 4 5 4 4 N A Alicja Kornasiewicz 7 7 4 5 N A N A Scott Rosenblum 7 7 N A N A 2 2 Arni Samuelsson 7 7 N A N A 2 2 1 Rick Senat 7 7 N A 4 4 2 2 1 Julie Southern 7 7 5 5 4 4 N A 1 Chairman of Board Board Committee.
2 Anthony Bloom, the Chairman of the Company, attended these meetings by invitation.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 41
