GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued Effectiveness Performance Evaluation Directors and Directors Independence The Board evaluation for 2016 was undertaken by an For the duration of the year, the Board was composed of external facilitator, Edis-Bates Associates.
As they have no nine members, five of whom were considered independent.
other connections with the Company, they were therefore Scott Rosenblum is not viewed as independent because of his considered independent in accordance with the Code.
The previous business dealings with the Greidinger family and its process, which was initiated in July 2016, was constructive and interests.
The names of the Directors at the year-end, together confirmed that the Board and its Committees are operating with their biographical details, are set out on pages 33 to 36. effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the NonRe-election and Election Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment All the Directors will be retiring and will be offering themselves and are made available for inspection by any person at the for re-election or election at this years AGM, reflecting current Companys registered office during normal business hours, best practice under the Code.
Biographical details of all the and will be available at the AGM.
Further details of the letters current Directors are set out on pages 33 to 36.
In view of of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the the performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each service contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in Director standing for re-election or election continues to show the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72. the necessary commitment and continues to be an effective member of the Board due to his or her skills, expertise and For a FTSE 250 company, the Code recommends that a business acumen.
majority of non-executive members of the Board of Directors should be independent in character and judgement, and The Board believes that the re-election of Anthony Bloom as free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to Chairman of the Board is in the best interests of shareholders.
affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board Anthony has a comprehensive understanding of the Companys considers that Martina King, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat, business and operations and played a key role in the Companys Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were, for the year, combination with Cinema City in 2014.
He also brings to the role Independent Non-Executive Directors.
extensive board-level and chairman experience in a range of companies, sectors and jurisdictions.
Dean Moore, who was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 11 January 2017, following Martina Kings stepping down Chairmans Commitments from the Board at the same time, is considered by the Board The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, but to be independent.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Moore the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere meets the requisite criteria to be considered independent, with the performance of the Chairmans duties to the Group.
notwithstanding his previous interim employment within the Group, given the nature of the role he performed in the ten-month period from March 2016, where his mandate was to focus on the Chief Financial Officer succession planning process.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective viewpoint and range of experience to the Company and ensure that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Boards decision-making.
They play a key role in reviewing proposals and providing constructive challenge generally and in particular in respect of strategy.
They also ensure that appropriate standards are maintained.
All the NonExecutive Directors have access to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the Board and following the agreed procedure.
Rick Senat, the Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed and facilitating the good information flow within the Board and the Board-appointed Committees.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 42 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Nomination Committee Report Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholders I am pleased to present our report on the Nomination Committee and its activities during the year.
It has been another busy year for the Committee in terms of Board succession planning, culminating in the announcement in January 2017 of the appointment of Nisan Cohen as the new Chief Financial Officer CFO.
Working in conjunction with the Chair of the Audit Committee and the acting CFO at the time, Israel Greidinger, the Committee played a key role in the planning process for this nomination.
Following a formal recruitment process, and with the assistance of executive search firm, Norman Broadbent, Dean Moore was recruited to act as interim CFO in March 2016.
At the same time, internal candidate Nisan Cohen was promoted to the role of Deputy CFO.
It has been another busy period for As reported at the time, it was anticipated that Nisan would theNomination Committee in terms of ultimately be appointed to the CFO position on a fulltime basis, subject to his performance developing to the succession planning, culminating in the satisfaction of the Board.
announcement of the appointment of Following a period of ten months, where Dean worked closely thenew Chief Financial Officer.
with Nisan on the development and strengthening of key skills and expertise in anticipation of a future promotion to the senior role, the Board considered and supported the Chairman Rick Senat promotion of Nisan to the role of CFO.
Further details of the Committees work in relation to the appointments of Dean Committee Scott Rosenblum, Arni Samuelsson Moore and Nisan Cohen are set out in the report below on members page 44.
Number of meetings held In January 2017, we also considered and recommended in 2016 2 the appointment of Dean Moore as an independent NonThe Company Secretary acts as Secretary Executive Director, in place of Martina King, who stepped to the Committee.
down from the Board at that time.
Part of our ongoing work as a Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, mindful of the contributing factors to effectiveness such as diversity, independence, and the right mix of skills and experience.
Dean Moore brings with him a wealth of financial and commercial experience and skills, which the Committee believes will be of tremendous benefit to the Board and the Group.
Last year I was pleased to report that we had attained significant female representation on the Board, with a proportion of over 30% being female.
This was indeed the case for 2016, too: however, following Martina Kings departure in January 2017, and the appointments of Dean and Nisan, this proportion has decreased.
This is a reflection of our policy to appoint the best candidate for each role, but we are mindful of current recommendations, and give due regard to these when considering both external appointments and internal talent development.
Rick Senat Chairman of the Nomination Committee | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 43 GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued Composition Recruitment Process for Board Directors During the year, the Committee comprised three NonAs part of the CFO succession planning process, the Executive Directors namely Scott Rosenblum, Arni Nomination Committee, working in conjunction with the Samuelsson and Rick Senat.
While Rick Senat and Arni Audit Committee Chair, Julie Southern, and acting CFO Samuelsson are considered to be independent, Scott at the time Israel Greidinger, engaged external search Rosenblum is not.
The majority of the Committee are consultancy Norman Broadbent to assist with the search for independent as required by the Code.
a candidate to fill the role.
Further to a formal selection and interview process, during which several candidates were The Role, Responsibilities and Activities of the short-listed, Dean Moore was appointed as interim CFO in NominationCommittee March 2016.
At the same time, it was announced that internal The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging candidate, Nisan Cohen, would become Deputy CFO, and its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
It would work closely with Dean in preparation for a potential is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge promotion to the role of CFO which, subject to the Board and experience on the Board, the size, structure and being satisfied with Nisans development, would take place composition of the Board, retirements and appointments inaround a years time.
of additional and replacement Directors, the independence of Directors, and it makes appropriate recommendations to Following a ten-month period, it was announced on the Board on such matters.
It is also responsible for ensuring 11January 2017 that Nisan Cohen had been appointed to that Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties the position of CFO and that he would join the Board as on appointment, and thereafter, with such matters being an Executive Director.
It was also announced that Dean specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the Moore had been appointed to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Non-Executive Director, and would become Chair of the Committee are available on the Companys website Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit www.
Given the process undertaken at the time of Deans appointment as interim CFO, an external search The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during consultancy was not engaged in connection with his the financial year and for other meetings as required on an appointment as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Due to the important role that the Directors play in the success of the Group, the Chairman is invited to attend The Board is satisfied that Mr Moore meets the requisite meetings, and does so, except when his own position or his criteria to be considered independent, notwithstanding his successor is being discussed.
previous interim employment within the Group, given the nature of the role he performed in the ten-month period During the year, the Committee reviewed its own from March 2016, where his mandate was to focus on the performance, reviewed the structure of the Board and the CFO succession planning process.
three Committees, and discussed succession and diversity issues.
Norman Broadbent, the external search consultancy used for the search conducted in 2016, has no connections Board Diversity with the Group or any of its Directors, and was chosen While the Committee considers diversity to be important following a consideration of a number of prospective search when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible consultancies.
new appointees, it believes that the single most important factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people it considers, on merit, to be the best candidates for each particular role.
It is not currently in favour of setting specific targets for Board representation to be achieved by particular dates.
As part of the process of recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds should be considered and, where reasonably possible, shortlists should comprise of candidates of both sexes.
During the year, there was over thirty percent female representation on the Board.
However, this percentage has lowered following Martina Kings stepping down in January 2017 and the appointments of Nisan Cohen and Dean Moore.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 44
