K e y C o e m l p m o e e r P c i r a u l R O e l a t i o n s y h t i e p f s a S d S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Resources and Relationships Our business model and strategy areunderpinned by key resources andrelationships.
Introduction honesty and integrity in its dealings with customers, Our key relationships for the Group are with our customers, employees, shareholders, regulators, suppliers and our people, our commercial partners and our wider our wider community.
How we behave and interact with each of these parties reflects on our reputation, which is a key asset Health and safety is of major importance to us when underpinning the successful delivery of our strategy.
considering the day-to-day health, safety and welfare of our customers, employees and contractors.
With over 100 Our Group policy on ethics seeks to guide the behaviour million customer visits a year and over 9,000 employees, of our people by specifying 12 principles which establish the Group seeks to maintain the highest standards in the common values through which we do business.
We strive effective management of our health and safety obligations, to ensure that we act in appropriate ways to maintain and and our duty of care to our customers and staff.
The Group seeks to act with Our Ethical Principles 1 We will act truthfully 2 We will act with integrity 3 We will respect our customers 4 We will treat individuals properly 5 We compete fairly 6 We will treat our suppliers properly 7 We will manage relations with shareholders effectively 8 We will maintain high standards of financial record keeping and reporting 9 W e will comply with the rules on inside information and share dealing 10 W e will maintain high standards of health and safety 11 W e will respect the environment 12 We will seek to contribute to the community | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 18 n a h t l a e H O s u r r e C m o o m t s m u u C n r i t u i e O s STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Each year, every cinema in the Group is subject to health The Group actively encourages our future film-going and safety assessments including aspects of fire, food audience by specifically tailoring film schedules to attract and occupational self-assessments and audits.
Results families and young people.
Where necessary, these are compared year-on-year and any significant issues performances are dubbed into the native language to ensure are followed up with the assistance of specialist external that all customers can enjoy the full cinema experience.
Overall, the results have shown Concessionary rates are offered for senior citizens and that standards remain high.
All incidents are logged, students at certain times of the day.
Throughout the Group, investigated and action taken, where appropriate, to ensure all national regulators film classification guidelines are that the chances of a reoccurrence are reduced as far as followed, unless the local regulators require otherwise.
some of our territories, there are no classification guidelines, and in such cases we provide information to customers Our Customers about films so they can make informed choices about the Our customers are fundamental to our success.
We focus type of film being shown.
We also ensure that all trailers are on ensuring that they have a positive experience every time complementary in terms of suitability to the main feature.
to increase the likelihood of repeat visits.
We aim to deliver a broad range of films, in high quality venues with retail Our People offerings to suit our customers tastes all of which Once again, 2016 saw considerable investment in people contribute to achieving our vision.
initiatives across the Group as we recognise that motivated and engaged teams are pivotal to delivering our vision to be We also have initiatives which aim to extend the relationship the Best Place to Watch a Movie.
with the customer beyond a single visit.
In the UK, and from the end of 2015 in Poland, we have our Unlimited subscription Nurturing talent is a key part of our people strategy and, service which is a fixed monthly or annual subscription in support of our growth strategy, we are proud that over enabling customers to watch as many 2D films as they wish.
the last 12 months more than 50% of cinema management We also have a number of other membership schemes across positions were filled by internal applicants.
This success rate the UK and other territories which offer discounts and allow is underpinned by our regularly held talent development us to interact frequently with our customer base.
reviews which directly link to our learning and development offering.
The talent review process allows us to identify high Event cinema screenings bring a wider range of content to performing and high potential talent from across the estate our customers, enabling our audiences to see live shows and invest in their development so they can achieve their taking place around the world.
Operating in this way supports full potential.
Much of our learning and development focus such productions, making them more commercially viable, in 2016 has been on developing content for our various and accessible to more people and, in turn, brings more people to extensive programmes.
the cinema and, frequently, a different type of customer.
There are three core parts to our learning and development As many of our customers still associate going to the offering: cinema as a treat or special occasion, they expect traditional cinema snacks as part of their experience.
However, we offer BeReady - trains people who are New to Role to enable a range of products to our customers, and we work closely them to feel part of our family and to develop their with our partners to provide healthier alternatives where competence and confidence, whilst they learn on the job.
We ensure that we provide good nutrition and BeGreat - supports people with their performance and allergen advice to enable our customers to make informed capability: employees are up-skilled in the technical and choices, with the latter now being available on our website.
soft skill aspects of their role.
All training is delivered in a At our Picturehouse circuit, the food and drink proposition is workshop format, where learnings are embedded and more akin to that found in restaurants and closely tailored transferred back into the workplace.
to the audience profile to which it caters.
A wide range of BeMore supports the top talent displaying potential and snacks and meals are available, many of which include fulfils our internal succession requirements.
2016 saw the ingredients sourced from local producers and suppliers.
graduation of 24 junior managers who took part in our 12 month residential management BeMore programme.
The Group actively promotes a philosophy of access for all Since graduation, 17 of these managers have either by offering accessible cinemas for the handicapped that progressed to a higher management position or moved show a wide range of films and event cinema.
Employees into a new, larger complexity cinema.
This years receive disability awareness training and specific advice programme also offers an opportunity to complete a on welcoming disabled customers.
Many of our cinemas qualification accredited by the Institute of Leadership and offer audio-descriptive, autism-friendly and subtitled Management ILM.
Additionally, we extended the performances, and in some territories, the Group allows opportunity of completing an optional NVQ qualification customers with disabilities to be accompanied by a carer, to our Team Members and Supervisors on our BeMore free of charge.
All new cinemas are designed to exceed programme.
We have around 250 Team Members and current statutory requirements and to provide buildings Supervisors being supported in the programme in order which are technically advanced, accessible and safe.
to prepare them for their next role and a number are now When cinemas undergo major refurbishment as part of completing an NVQ in Customer Service or an NVQ in an ongoing programme of improvements and renovations, Team Leading.
the opportunity is taken to enhance access within cinemas where practicable to do so.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 19 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Resources and Relationships continued We also have a 24 month apprenticeship programme, Our Commercial Relationships attendance in which has trebled during 2016.
We now have We work hard at developing good relationships with a range 64 apprentices in our programme, providing opportunities of film studios and distributors, both major and independent.
for young people to learn straight from school by offering Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on providing an exciting career path into the cinema industry.
Many our customers with a wide range of movies has resulted in apprentices go on to become Cinema Supervisors.
many opportunities for us to work with film studios on simplifying the film buying process and on promoting We are also very proud of our online Learning Management smaller films to a wider audience.
We also work closely with System CineLearn CineLearn has grown to become the industry bodies, including the Film Content Protection foundation of our learning and development offering, with Agency FCPA, to combat film piracy.
During 2016 the over 4500 employees now having access to the platform, Group were awarded a total of 22 awards out of a possible which supports their personal and professional development.
32 awards from the FCPA, demonstrating our dedication to The system is now being accessed 90 times per day across the UKs theatrical protection programme.
the estate, demonstrating the ease and accessibility of the platform as well as the culture of learning within the Group.
The Group is committed to protecting the intellectual property rights of films and Event Cinema.
Policies and Another key part of our people strategy is our fair wage procedures are constantly reviewed and developed to policy, across all age groups and in all territories.
In addition, ensure cinema management are able to effectively monitor we update and improve bonus schemes, rewarding people and prevent film piracy.
Night-vision technology is utilised across a range of measures from Group performance to and there is an increased vigilance around high profile titles personal performance, to driving sales and more.
We also which are particularly vulnerable.
offer an extensive range of benefits including unlimited free cinema tickets, guest tickets, discounts on food and drinks, The Group will continue to work closely with relevant bike to work schemes, childcare vouchers and many other industry and law enforcement organisations in order to help benefits which suit our peoples needs.
reduce and prevent film piracy.
We are enormously proud of our employee engagement We build relationships with developers, landlords and local scores.
For the fourth consecutive year, engagement levels planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new sites have increased and in 2016 we achieved an engagement for the future.
We also work closely with suppliers of score of 75% up from 70% in 2015 and a truly outstanding technological enhancements, for instance IMAX and 4DX, participation rate of 98%.
These scores have been achieved which enables us to ensure that we are delivering the best by continuing to listen to our people through our surveys possible experience to our customers, as well as looking to then implementing initiatives which are important to them maximise box office revenues.
and their needs, such as increased levels of pay, succession planning and promotions, and learning and development Strong relationships with our principal retail suppliers, such opportunities.
as Coca-Cola, Baskin Robbins, Candy King, Starbucks and Pepsi enable us to work together on promotions that help Diversity and Human Rights drive retail sales.
We seek to manage relationships with our The Group is an equal opportunity employer and seeks suppliers fairly, and to work in accordance with our to recruit, retain and promote staff on the basis of their aspirations as set out in our ethical policy.
qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
A wide range of applicants are encouraged to apply for all roles.
In The Group also works as a venue partner for numerous film employment-related decisions, the business complies with festivals.
While many are well known and high profile, in all relevant legislation, including that specifically targeted certain territories the Group sponsors festivals showcasing at preventing discrimination, and such principles are local film producers work and runs short film competitions embedded through the business by requisite policies.
for students encouraging the development of future talent.
This involvement once again helps to promote the Groups Gender Breakdown of Cineworld People brands through the wider film industry.
BOARD OF SENIOR TOTAL 1 DIRECTORS MANAGERS EMPLOYEES Male 6 6 5,094 Female 3 3 4,852 1 Senior managers are those people who report directly to an Executive Director.
Data is based on the average headcount for 2016.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 20 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Our Communities Our cinema websites enable e-tickets to be purchased Our work with charities, schools, and community groups and used, avoiding the need to print tickets.
In new and across all our territories is very important to us.
We are refurbished cinemas, poster cases are now digital reducing involved with a wide range of activities including working the need to deliver, install, and ultimately throw away large with distributors on charity screenings, providing free shows paper posters.
All these efforts help to reduce our use of for organisations and working closely with local schools and resources and carbon footprint.
In 2016, for the first time, Cineworld partnered with the BBCs Children In Need initiative, where as a team we raised over 400,000.
Our Picturehouse cinemas work very closely with their charity of choice, Plan International UK, and host regular awareness-raising and fundraising activities in venues, including free preview screenings and interactive activities for audiences.
In 2016, Picturehouse Cinemas also donated 10p from every bottle of water sold in their cinemas to Plan International UK.
For 2017, Picturehouse Cinemas have now changed bottled water supplier to Life Water.
Life donated a significant amount of their proceeds to charity and the plastic bottles used by it are amongst the most  in the market.
Our schools programme saw us working with a variety of partners to deliver a wide range of educational screenings for primary and secondary schools, including the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust, London International Film Festival, World Book Day and the National Literacy Trust.
We worked with our distributors to create special schools promotions and programmes for films such as Macbeth, Suffragette and The Stanford Prison Experiment.
We ran talks and screenings for Black History Month, Anti Bullying Week, Science and Engineering Week, Refugee Week, Roald Dahls Centenary, World Book Day and Holocaust Memorial Day.
Across the last academic year, our key achievements included: We held over 400 education screenings on weekday mornings with a total of over 32,000 students attending from 450 different schools across the UK.
We showed 942 Saturday morning Kids Club screenings, with an audience of circa 55,000.
We showed 1,246 weekday morning Toddler Time screenings, with an audience of circa 27,500.
We held 224 Autism Friendly screenings with a total of circa 3,764 total admissions.
Dementia Friendly Screenings - Picturehouse launched this strand at Hackney and Liverpool, with 11 screenings taking place and a total of 380 admissions.
We seek to comply with all relevant environmental legislation and to operate in an environmentally sensitive manner.
The Directors acknowledge the impact that the business has on the environment and seek to mitigate it.
Often changes which help to mitigate our environmental impact also reduce our operating costs.
Being a multisite business, the Group is conscious of its total energy consumption and amount of waste materials generated and is actively working on reducing both.
The Groups mandatory greenhouse gas report can be found in the Directors Report on pages 76 to 77.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 21
