STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS Regulators External Audit provided by KPMG GOVERNANCE u Accountability The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Code: Accountability, Audit and Financial there is an ongoing and robust process for identifying, The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a Group for more details please see Principal Risks and fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups Uncertainties on pages 22 to 27 : financial position and prospects.
The detailed work to ensure the systems have been in place for the year under review: this, and to substantiate the fair, balanced and understandable the systems are regularly reviewed by the Executive statement, is undertaken by the Audit Committee.
Directors and the Board and are deemed to be effective with no significant weaknesses identified: and Risk Management and Internal Control the systems comply with the FRC guidance on risk The Board has overall responsibility for establishing, monitoring management, internal control and related financial business and maintaining an effective system of risk management and reporting.
These systems provide reasonable assurance that the Groups assets are safeguarded and that material During the year, the Board has directly, and through delegated financial errors and irregularities are prevented or detected with authority to the executive management team and the Audit a minimum of delay.
The Group approach has been developed Committee, overseen and reviewed the performance and using the principles of the Three Lines of Defence model a evolution of the approach to risk management and internal simple but well-established governance and internal control control.
As part of the continued focus on, and investment in, risk management and internal control, the Group recruited a Head of Risk and Assurance who took up the post in August 2016.
The key responsibilities are to lead on: Risk Management Internal Audit Fraud Detection and Loss Prevention Insurance Board and Committees Executive Directors Operations Group Support Cineworld Picturehouse Functions Cinema City Yes Planet First Line Second Line Third Line Process and control implementation Group and Territory oversight Independent challenge to the levels of and development at cinemas monitoring and strategy policy assurance provided by management on setting the eectiveness of governance, risk Operationalise: management and internal controls Ci nema operating manuals policies Support and review: and process Operational performance reviews Challenge and Assure: Regional District Manager oversight Executive Directors oversight R isk-based audits provided by PwC Training and development and challenge Cinema compliance audit programme Regulatory and compliance Group Board and Committees Cinema selfassessments requirements oversight and challenge Annual health and safety audits Financial oversight and review Insurance inspections Risk Management Framework Fraud and loss prevention monitoring design and implementation Mystery shopper visits Assistance in process and control development Management self-assessments Customer satisfaction surveys | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 45 GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement continued Risk Management Internal Control The Board, supported by the Audit Committee and the Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups executive management team, has overall responsibility system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, forimplementing an effective risk management approach.
it has delegated responsibility for the operation of the system The Group approach is governed by its Risk Management of internal control to the executive management team.
The Framework that sets out the policy, oversight structure, detailed review of internal control has been delegated to accountability, monitoring and reporting of risk within the Group, the Audit Committee.
Senior Management within each part and facilitates the following objectives for risk management: of the Group are responsible for internal control and risk management within its own area and for ensuring compliance identify, measure, control and report on business risk that with the Groups policies and procedures.
will undermine the achievement of the Group strategic objectives, both strategically and operationally, through The Audit Committee has oversight of the programme of appropriate analysis and assessment criteria: assurance activities to allow for its ongoing review of the better allocate effort and resources for the management of effectiveness of internal control.
The delivery of this assurance key and emerging risks: programme in the first half of the year was led and delivered drive business improvements and improved intelligence for by  LLP PwC with the support key decision-making: and of the in-house Internal Audit team and then from August support and develop the Companys reputation as a well was led by the new Head of Risk and Assurance with PwC governed and trusted organisation.
providing specialist support where needed.
Details of the activities that the Audit Committee has been involved in The application of the key components of the Risk during 2016 are set out on pages 48 to 53.
Management Framework have been: Internal Audit the Internal Audit Plan is a combination of Oversight Structure and Accountability the implementation Group-wide risk based reviews providing assurance over of a risk management oversight and accountability structure the key controls relied upon for the principal risks as well as has ensured that risk consideration is undertaken from both a additional specific reviews requested by management.
The Group maintains a Group Strategic Risk Register as well as operational risk Cinema Compliance the Cinema Compliance Plan is a registers for Group support functions and cinema operations.
combination of one and three day reviews that are delivered across the Group.
Each cinema in the Group is risk-assessed Ongoing Process the approach taken is focused on risk based on financial, operational and management information identification using cause and effect analysis, inherent and to determine which cinemas would be included in the audit residual risk assessment, key controls identification, and programme for the year.
the development and implementation of further mitigation strategies where required.
As part of this process, risk appetite In addition to the programme of on-site reviews conducted by is considered for each of the principal risks, allowing the Board the Risk and Assurance team, an annual self-assessment audit to clearly set out the nature and extent of the risk the Group is is undertaken by each cinema.
willing to accept in pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
Fraud Detection and Loss Prevention to support the Group Escalation, Monitoring and Reporting a clear escalation policy in fraud detection and loss prevention, a software tool is used is in place to ensure changes to risk exposure are notified up for ongoing analysis of our key data sources to swiftly identify through the governance structure as required.
Risk leads are any irregular transaction activity that could indicate instances identified for all risks and have the responsibility for ongoing of fraud, loss or failure of procedural compliance.
In addition, monitoring of the effectiveness of current controls and the a programme of anonymous site visits are undertaken to progress against the implementation of further mitigating review the customer journey from ticket purchase to cinema actions.
There is a cycle of ongoing monitoring and reporting activities External Audit the External Auditor provides a supplementary, in place with risk information being presented to the Board, independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the Audit Committee, and the executive management team.
internal control system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
Culture to support embedding the application of the Risk Management Framework into the culture and behaviours of the Group, ongoing training and communication has been delivered by the Risk and Assurance team.
Details of the Groups principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated are provided on pages 22 to 27.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 46 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Operational Controls the Executive Directors, on a day-today basis, are involved in reviewing the key operations of the business through their interaction with Senior Management across the Group and their discussions on operational performance and delivery.
Financial Control the Group has internal control and risk management arrangements in relation to the Groups financial reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts.
The arrangements include procedures to ensure the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU or FRS 101, as appropriate, with reasonable assurance and that require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
Ongoing financial performance is monitored through regular reporting to Executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board.
Capital investment and all revenue expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with post-investment and period end reviews as required.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Across all territories, a financial controls checklist is in place for all Finance Directors.
On an annual basis they are required to undertake a self-assessment sign-off of these controls which is then followed up by Internal Audit reviews for compliance validation.
Other Assurance Activities a programme of Health and Safety audits delivered by our outsourced provider, NSF, for the UK take place throughout the year across the Group.
Customer surveys and mystery shopper visits also take place to ensure customers receive the optimum viewer experience.
Policies and Procedures the Group has in place a range of governance-related policies which are regularly reviewed and communicated to employees.
These include Whistleblowing, Gifts and Hospitality, and Health and Safety.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 47
