The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Report of TheArticles of Association require one-third or the number nearest to the Directors.
one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM.
However, the UK Code and the AIC Code require all directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire annually.
All the current Directors will retire and, Applicable Corporate Governance Codes being eligible, have all stated that they will offer themselves for The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the re-election, with the exception of Richard Hextall who will not stand Companys affairs.
As an investment trust, the Companys day-to-day forre-election having served on the Board for almost nine years.
responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has no employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
Therefore not all Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a Director theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code before the end of his term by passing an ordinary resolution at ameeting.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 are directly applicable to the Company.
The Board has therefore considered Board Independence the principles and recommendations of the Code of Corporate All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not Governance published by the Association of Investment Companies in dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee February 2015 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate meeting in July 2016, the Directors reviewed their independence and Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC confirmed that all Directors remain wholly independent of Henderson.
Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the applicable Richard Hextall is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
As he principles set out in the UK Code as well as setting out additional is retiring from the Board at the AGM, Simon Barratt will be the principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance Companys Senior Independent Director from 27October 2016. to the Company.
The FRC has confirmed that, by following the AIC Guide, There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and inrelation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
The Board has noted that the FRC and the AIC have issued revised Directors Professional Development codes which the Company will be required to report against next year.
When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction seminar which is held by Henderson at the request of the Chairman.
Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key information on found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and and www.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate Statement of Compliance in relevant training and industry seminars.
Directors individual The Directors believe that the company has complied with the training requirements are considered as part of the annual evaluation recommendations of the AIC Code during the year under review and up process which is led bythe Chairman of the Board.
to the date of this report, and thereby the provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
Directors Insurance and Indemnification Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect The UK Code includes provisions relating to: ofthe Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and the role of chief executive subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party executive directors remuneration provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs the need for an internal audit function which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in which For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to Noindemnity was given during the year or up to the date of this report.
theCompany as it is an externally managed investment company.
Inparticular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and The Board administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees The Boards policy is for Directors to serve for no more than nine years, Directors other than in exceptional circumstances.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring that it continues to deal effectively Board Composition with all the aspects of its role.
He ensures that Henderson provide The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors management, regulatory and financial information in a clear and timely shall not be less than three nor more than seven: the Board currently manner.
During the year seven Board meetings were held to deal with consists of six non-executive Directors.
All served throughout the year the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board has a formal under review.
The biographies of the Directors holding office at the schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which include date of this report, which are set out onpage 16, demonstrate the management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience gearing, asset allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, relevant to their positions as Directors.
investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
Directors Appointment and Retirement The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half appointed must stand for election by the shareholders at the AGM year results and other public documents and for ensuring that such following appointment, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
29 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Statement continued At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of theyear, the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure, anoperational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Companys objective and is responsible for setting asset allocation, Committees and of individual Directors.
The appraisal of the Chairman investment and gearing limits within which Henderson has discretion was led by Richard Hextall.
As a FTSE 350 Company, the Company is to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of any obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board evaluation every investments in in-house funds managed or advised by Henderson.
This year the external review was facilitated by Lintstock also has adopted a procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their Limited, who also carried out the previous external review in 2013. duties, to take independent professional adviceat the expense of the Lintstock Limited are unconnected to the Company.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, concluded that the Board has a good balance of skills and experience all Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
and the Chairman continues to provide effective leadership.
The Board has two principal Committees: the Audit Committee Board attendance andtheNominations Committee.
The terms of reference for these The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee Committees are available on the Companys website or via the meetings held during the year under review and the number of Corporate Secretary.
The Company also has an Insider Committee meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the AGM todeal with the obligations of the Market Abuse Regulations which in October 2015, with the exception of Samantha Wren who was came into force on 3 July 2016. unable to attend.
The Board has not formed a Management Engagement Committee as it Audit Nominations remains the role of the Board as a whole to keep under review the terms Board Committee Committee of the management agreement between the Company and Henderson.
Number of meetings 7 3 1 Aseparate Remuneration Committee has not been established as the Simon Barratt 7 3 1 Board consists of only non-executive Directors and the Board as a whole David Brief 6 3 1 considers the Directors remuneration in line with the Remuneration Policy set out on page 27, which is subject to periodic shareholder approval.
Richard Hextall 6 3 1 Martin Morgan 7 1 Audit Committee Philip Remnant 7 1 The Audit Committee is chaired by Samantha Wren who succeeded Samantha Wren 6 3 Richard Hextall as Chair of the Audit Committee on 7July 2016.
Theother members of the Committee are David Brief, Simon Barratt Internal controls and Richard Hextall.
TheReport of the Audit Committee which forms The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, part of the Corporate Governance Statement, can be found on pages evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
Theprocess accords with advice issued by the FRC and is subject toregular review by the Board.
Nominations Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal All Directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such asystem is Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee but would designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the not chair the Committee when the Chairmans successor was being considered.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not succession planning, the performance of the Board as a whole and absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board the Board Committees, and the appointment of new Directors.
When has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal considering succession planning, the Committee bears in mind the controls for the year ended 30 June 2016.
During the course of its balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity including review of internal controls, the Board has not identified or been advised gender existing on the Board and will recommend when the of any failings or weaknesses that have been determined as significant.
recruitment of additional non-executive Directors is required.
Given Henderson has established an internal control framework to provide the size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have set reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the targets in relation to diversity.
Once a decision is made to recruit internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness additional Directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn ofthe internal controls is assessed by Hendersons compliance and risk upand each Director is invited to submit nominations and these are department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives a formal report considered in accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
from Henderson each quarter detailing the steps taken to monitor the TheCommittee may also use external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an additional Board member becomes areas of risk, including those that are not directly the responsibility of Henderson, and which reports the details of any known internal control necessary.
The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board the Directors seeking re-election.
Each year the Board receives from Henderson a report on its automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each Directors internal controls which includes a report from Hendersons Auditors on performance and consideration of the Directors independence.
the control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to TheCommittee also takes into account the mix of skills and be taken to embed the system of internal control and risk management experience of the current Board members.
In accordance with the into the operation and culture ofthe Company and its key suppliers.
AICCode any Director serving forlonger than six years would be The Company does not have an internal audit function: it delegates subject to particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
to third parties most of its operations and does not employ any staff.
Performance Evaluation Accordingly, in practice the Board must place reliance on Henderson and its other contractors to ensure that they operate effective The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the internal audit functions.
The Board will continue to monitor its system 30 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Statement continued of internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates as The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and intended and the Directors will review at least annually whether a a formal review of Henderson is conducted annually.
As part of the function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
annual review in July 2016 the Directors discussed the quality and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
Accountability and Relationship with Henderson Inaddition, they reviewed other services provided by Henderson to the The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial Company, such as accounting, company secretarial and administration statements is set out on page 26, the Independent Auditors Report services, and Hendersons promotion of investment and savings on pages 34 to 38 and the viability statement on page 18. products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board noted Hendersons The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, including resources and experience in managing and administering investment Henderson, the management of the investment portfolio, thecustodial trust companies.
As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the services which include the safeguarding of the assets which is Directors that the continued appointment of Henderson on the terms delegated through the appointment of the depositary as explained agreed is in the interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
onpage 21, the day-to-day accounting, company secretarial and administration requirements and registration services.
Each of these Share Capital contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Please see the Report of the Directors on pages 24 and 25.
Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Relations with Shareholders The Board receives and considers regular reports from Henderson Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders is required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to provide the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and would then be reported to the Board.
publication of the NAV pershare at the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges and amonthly fact sheet which is available on the website.
Henderson takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual Henderson also provides information on the Company and Fund investments.
Henderson also ensures that all Directors receive, in a Manager videos are on the website, via various social media channels and timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial through its HGI content platform, more details of which are on page 17. information.
Representatives of Henderson attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to concern.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the attend and participate in the AGM, which will be available to watch live Corporate Secretary through its appointed representative who is by visiting www.
Shareholders have the responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee opportunity to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Chair of the Audit Committee and all other Directors at the meeting complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee meetings and the Fund Manager will make a presentation to shareholders.
are fully recorded through a process that allows any Directors Asummary of the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and Henderson isdisplayed at the meeting and each substantial issue is dealt with in operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual The Corporate Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, is Report and Notice of AGM be issued toshareholders so as to provide asubsidiary of Henderson with its own reporting lines and audited at least 20 working days notice of themeeting.
These documents are internal controls.
There are processes and controls in place to ensure also included on the website.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions that their is a clear distinction between the two entities, particularly when in advance of the meeting, orraise issues or concerns at any time, are dealing with any conflicts or issues between the Company and invited to do so by writing to the Chairman at the address given on Henderson.
Any correspondence from shareholders addressed to the page 17.
Chairman or the Company received at Hendersons offices is forwarded to the Chairman of the Company in line with the audited procedures in General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
In addition, the Chairman offered meetings place.
Any correspondence is submitted to the next Board meeting.
with a number of large investors during the year but all were satisfied Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which acts for with the Company and did not take up the offer to meet.
All meetings Henderson, have arrangements in place by which their staff may, in between Henderson and shareholders are reported to the Board.
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation tofinancial reporting or other matters.
New Zealand Listing The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010, It should be noted that the UK Code of Corporate Governance may which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its zero materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
received assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect By order of the Board against any potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
Continued Appointment of Henderson Henderson Secretarial Services Limited The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of Corporate Secretary investment management and other services to the Company on 19 September 2016 anongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with 31 Henderson are contained on page 4.
