The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Samantha Wren who is a consideration of the Auditors independence and objectivity and Chartered Management Accountant.
The other members of the the effectiveness of the audit process: Committee are David Brief, an experienced pensions investment consideration of the appointment of the Auditors, the Auditors professional, Simon Barratt, an experienced lawyer, and Richard performance and remuneration: and Hextall, a Chartered Accountant, who was Chairman of the Audit Committee until 7 July 2016. consideration of the Audit Quality Review teams review of the 2015 year end audit, from which there were no significant matters noted.
Meetings The Committee met three times during the year under review.
The Policy on Non-Audit Services Companys Auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee The Committee has formulated a policy on the provision of non-audit on a regular basis.
Representatives of Henderson and BNP Paribas services by the Companys appointed Auditors and has determined Securities Services may also be invited to attend if deemed necessary.
that they will never be considered for the provision of services related to accounting and preparation of the financial statements, internal Role and Responsibilities audit, custody, tax advice to Directors and tax calculations to support The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in applying the financial statements.
The Auditors may, if required, provide financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an non-audit services related to a review of the Companys half year appropriate relationship with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee report, with all other non-audit services being judged on a case-byformally reports to the Board.
The Committees responsibilities are case basis subject to approval by the Committee.
Therewere no set out in formal terms of reference which are reviewed at least non-audit services provided during the year.
In the year under review the main duties undertaken were: consideration of the appropriateness of the Companys accounting Audit Tendering policies: As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company will in future be subject to the mandatory auditor a review of the half year results and the annual report, including rotation requirements of the European Union.
Subject to the the disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and detailed implementation of the European requirements in the UK, risk management, going concern and related parties and this is likely to mean that the Company will put the external audit consideration of whether the report is fair, balanced and out to tender at least every ten years, and change auditors at least understandable and provides the information necessary for every twenty years.
This legislation will require the Company to put shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, the audit out to tender for the 2021 year end.
The Committee will, business model and strategy in order to make recommendations however, continue to consider annually the need to go to tender for to the Board.
In assessing whether the report is fair, balanced and audit quality or independence reasons.
understandable, each Director reviewed the disclosures made, applying their respective knowledge and expertise:  LLP have been the Companys Auditors consideration of the annual confirmation from the Companys since 2009.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2014 the Depositary: Company tendered its audit.
The tender was conducted on an integrated basis with Henderson and, upon consideration of the consideration of the quality and effectiveness of the accounting tenders received, the Board decided to reappoint records and management information maintained on behalf of the  LLP.
Company, relying on meetings with and reports from Henderson: consideration of the internal controls in place at Henderson, BNP External Audit, Review and Auditors Paribas Securities Services as administrator, HSBC as custodian Reappointment and Hendersons policies in relation to cyber risk and business continuity, meeting with representatives of Hendersons internal The Committee discuss the audit process with the Auditors without audit and risk departments periodically: representatives of Henderson present and consider the effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
The Audit consideration of the whistle blowing policy that Henderson has Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible provided by  LLP.
The Committee is improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
satisfied that the Auditors are independent of the Company.
The The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent Auditors are required to rotate partners every five years and this investigation and follow up action: isthe third year that the current partner has been in place.
consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place  LLP have indicated their willingness and the Companys risk map: tocontinue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the consideration of the Companys anti-bribery policy: appointment of  LLP as Auditors to theCompany, and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine consideration of whether there is a need for an internal audit their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
function in order to make a recommendation to the Board: Fees paid or payable to the Auditors are detailed in note 6 consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and onpage46.
32 the findings therefrom: The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Report of the Audit Committee continued Audit for the year ended 30 June 2016 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2016 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and ownership of The Directors have appointed Henderson, who outsource some of the administration and the Companys investments accounting services to BNP Paribas Securities Services, to perform the valuation of the assets of the Company in accordance with its responsibilities under the AIFMD rules.
As required under the AIFMD rules, Henderson has adopted a written valuation policy, which may be modified from time to time.
Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
Ownership of listed investments are verified by reconciliation to the Custodians records and the Directors have received quarterly reports of the Depositary who has responsibility for overseeing operations of the Company, including verification of ownership and valuation.
Recognition of income Income received, particularly special dividends, are accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policy as set out on pages 42 to 44.
Special dividends, and their treatment as revenue or capital, have been reviewed by the Committee and agreed.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2016, taken as a whole, isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Samantha Wren Chair of the Audit Committee 19 September 2016 33
