Governance Audit committee report During the year, the audit committee the Committee as further described on page 55 has continued to devote significant time to reviewing the following: the robustness and integrity of the Groups financial reporting, including accounting issues and judgements: monitoring the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including internal financial reporting controls, and identifying any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in their operation: and monitoring the activities and performance of the external Auditors, and notifying the Board of any significant concerns arising from their audit work.
In addition to the above responsibilities, the Committee has reviewed the processes for the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud and the James Morley Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Audit committee Chairman The Committees terms of reference are reviewed on regular basis to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code and are also published on the Companys website.
For more information on evaluation of the Board and its Committees during the year, please see page 53.
The Committee met three times during 2016 and addressed four main areas in the year: 1 financial reporting and significant issues: 2 internal control, risk management and internal audit: 3 viability statement: and 4 external Auditors.
1 Financial reporting and significant issues The Committee reviewed and considered the following areas in respect of financial reporting and preparation of the interim and annual financial statements: the appropriateness of accounting policies used: compliance with internal and external financial reporting standards and policies: principal judgemental accounting matters, based on reports from management and external Auditors: and whether or not the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also reviews reports by the external Auditors on the full year and half year results which highlight any issues with respect to the work undertaken on the audit.
The issues and how they were addressed by the Committee are set out below: Issue Area of focus How the issue was addressed by the Committee Recoverability A number of judgements are made in the The Committee discussed with management the results of its review, the internal of trade calculation of the provision, primarily the age of controls and the composition of the related financial information.
The Committee receivables the invoice, the existence of any disputes, also discussed with the external auditors their review of the provision.
recent historical payment patterns and the The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are debtors financial position.
reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
Revenue In the broking and financial segments, the The Committee considered the revenue recognition processes in place for all four Groups entitlement to commission revenue business segments with management and cut-off procedures with the external recognition usually depends on third party obligations Auditors.
Since the Group has no control The Committee is satisfied with the control environment and that revenue has been over this, it is important to recognise revenue at recognised in the correct periods.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired The Committee discussed with management and reviewed the results of its testing Carrying value requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the and evaluated the appropriateness of the assumptions used within its impairment of goodwill and cash-generating units to which these assets models.
The Committee also discussed with the external Auditors their review of intangible have been allocated.
The Committee then discussed with both management and assets calculation requires estimation of future cash the external Auditors the headroom in each of the cash-generating units and the flows expected to arise for each cashimpact of sensitivity analysis from changes in key assumptions.
generating unit, the selection of suitable The Committee is satisfied with managements assumptions, judgement and the discount rates and the estimation of future conclusion not to record impairment in any of the cash-generating units and that growth rates.
appropriate disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
72 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 72 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Issue Area of focus How the issue was addressed by the Committee Classification Exceptional items are those which are nonThe Committee considered the reasons behind showing these items separately and recognition recurring in nature and considered to be and therefore excluding the costs from the underlying earnings measures.
of adjusting material in size.
In 2016, this column in the The Committee agreed that the use of alternative performance measures, which items consolidated income statement represents the exclude these items, can provide the users of the financial statements with a better gain and special dividend arising on the sale of understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
The Committee is satisfied that the existing format is consistent with the Groups The acquisition related costs column includes accounting policy.
the amortisation of intangible assets, the expensing of the cash and share-based elements of consideration linked to ongoing employment obligations on acquisitions, acquisition related professional fees and interest on loan notes issued as part of the Platou acquisition.
The work described above, together with a review of the content of the strategic report, provided the assurance to the Committee and to the Board that the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
overall work plan: 2 Internal control, risk management and terms of engagement: internal audit external Auditors overall performance and independence: The Company continually seeks to improve and update existing effectiveness of the overall audit process: procedures and to introduce new controls where necessary.
The risk length of appointment as external Auditors current length: eight years : management system is designed to identify principal risks and to provide and assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
As an level of non-audit and audit fees.
ongoing process, the Committee oversees the development of the internal To ensure that the Auditors maintain their independence and objectivity, control procedures which provide assurance to the Committee that the Committee has implemented a policy which is designed to ensure that the controls which are operating in the Group are effective and sufficient to the provision of non-audit services does not have an impact on the external counteract the risks to which the Company is exposed.
No significant Auditors independence and objectivity.
It restricts the engagement of the control deficiencies were identified during the year.
Further details of risk Auditors in relation to non-audit services, whilst recognising that there are management are shown on pages 38-41. some types of work, such as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed The need for an internal audit function is reviewed regularly by the Board understanding of the Companys business is advantageous.
Given the changes in structure of the Group following It also requires that individual engagements above a certain fee level may the completion of the Platou acquisition in 2015 and the scale and only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee or the regulatory nature of the Platou operations, it was considered necessary to Committee Chair.
establish an internal audit function for the banking and finance operations headquartered in Norway.
Ernst & Young were appointed to carry out this The Committee agreed in November 2016 that the Auditors would no function on an outsourced basis.
The Committee will continue to review longer be used for any non-audit services other than those either required the possible need for an internal audit function in respect of the Groups or permitted by statute.
other activities but to date has concluded that there is no immediate The fees for services provided by the Auditors during the year are shown in requirement for such a function.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Board, has established The Committee meets privately on a regular basis with the external arrangements by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise Auditors in the absence of management.
concerns about possible improprieties or wrongdoing.
The Committee has discussed the requirements of the Code and the final order published by the Competition and Markets Authority in respect of 3 Viability statement tendering the Groups external audit and has recommended to the Board The Committee considered the form of the viability statement.
In particular, that it does not carry out a tender process for 2017: the next tender there was a debate over the period of time that it was appropriate to process is due in 2019.
In making this assessment, the Committee has consider and it was decided that it was appropriate to limit the statement considered the performance of the current external Auditors, to three years.
The Committee reviewed the analysis supporting the viability  LLP PwC, who have served since 2009.
The statement and the processes underpinning the assessment of the Groups current audit partner, John Waters, has served since 2014. longer-term prospects were also reviewed.
Further assessment of viability and the viability statement is set out on page 39.
The Committee does not consider that PwCs independence or effectiveness are impaired.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended 4 External Auditors to the Board that PwC be re-appointed as Auditors and that a resolution The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board be put to shareholders at the AGM.
regarding the re-appointment and remuneration of the external Auditors.
The Committee considered the following: James Morley quality and effectiveness of the audit for the prior year: Audit committee Chairman external audit strategy for the current year: 10 March 2017 73 www.
