Governance Corporate governance statement The Board, supported by its committees, is responsible for Principles statement ensuring leadership and setting strategic direction with the Good corporate governance underpins the Companys aim of delivering sustainable shareholder value.
It is objectives, strategy and business model, as set out in the imperative that the combined experience and knowledge strategic report on pages 1 to 47.
The Board is committed represented by the Board is appropriate to lead the to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance, Company in maintaining its market-leading position and which is critical to retaining investor trust in the Company achieving its strategic objectives.
On appointment, the and in the Board as custodian of the Companys assets Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met the and values.
independence criteria set out under the Code and confirmed that they have sufficient time available to Statement of compliance discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year term, subject The statement of corporate governance practices set to re-election by shareholders at each AGM, after which out on pages 49 to 81, and information incorporated by their appointment may be extended, subject to mutual reference, constitutes the Clarkson PLC corporate agreement.
All members of the Board will retire and seek governance report setting out how the Company has re-election by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, with the applied the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate exception of James Morley.
Marie-Louise Clayton will seek Governance Code the Code, which was applicable to election by shareholders having joined the Board at the the Company for the financial year ended 31 December beginning of the year.
We are compliant with the Code.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the It is noted that the UK Corporate Governance Code was Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which is set out in revised in April 2016 the Revised Code and that the writing and has been approved by the Board: Revised Code will apply to the Company for the financial year beginning 1 January 2017.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer The September 2014 and April 2016 editions of the Leading the Board Running day-to-day Code can be viewed on the Financial Reporting Council business website at https: frc.
uk Our-Work CorporateEnsuring Board Implementing Board Governance-Reporting Corporate-governance.
effectiveness strategy Promoting high standards of corporate governance Leadership The Non-Executive Directors have a vital role in ensuring The Board comprises James Hughes-Hallett Chairman, that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are Andi Case, Peter M. Anker, Jeff Woyda, Peter Backhouse appropriately discussed and constructively challenged.
They Senior Independent Director, Birger Nergaard, James help scrutinise the performance of management against the Morley, Ed Warner and Marie-Louise Clayton.
Marie-Louise agreed goals and strategic objectives of the Board and Clayton joined the Board on 1 January 2017.
James monitor the integrity of the Companys financial information Morley, who has been a Non-Executive Director for nine and systems of risk control and management.
In addition, years, will retire at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be they are responsible for considering and approving held on 12 May 2017.
James will be replaced as Chair of executive remuneration.
The Chairman maintains direct the audit committee by Marie-Louise Clayton.
Biographies communication with each of the Non-Executive Directors of the Directors in office at the date of signing the financial without the Executive Directors present where necessary.
statements are set out on pages 50 to 51.
Powers of the Board Ed Warner will reach his nine year tenure in 2017.
Whilst The Board meets regularly with at least four scheduled taking into account the need to progressively refresh its meetings each year plus additional meetings where members through new appointments, the Board required to address matters arising outside the normal recognises the importance of continuity and the value that course of business.
The Non-Executive Directors serve on a Directors who serve for many years are able to bring.
Given number of committees established by the Board.
More the changes that are currently taking place due to James information regarding Board and committee meetings can Morleys retirement and the appointment of Marie-Louise be found on pages 55 and 56.
Clayton, the Board recognises the need for stability and The Board has powers and duties as set out in all relevant acknowledges the contribution, continuity and experience laws and the Companys articles of association the that Ed, as a long-serving Director, brings to the Board Articles.
Amendments to the Articles may be made in overall and the support he can provide.
The nomination accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act committee has recommended to the Board that it would be 2006.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters appropriate for Ed Warner to remain on the Board and as it reserves for its own decision-making, such as decisions Chair of the remuneration committee and the Board has relating to: determined that Ed continues to demonstrate qualities of strategy and management independence and judgement in carrying out his role.
Eds financial reporting and controls continued tenure will be subject to shareholder approval shareholder communications and rigorous review by the nomination committee and executive remuneration Board for each year of continued service.
52 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 52 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information the Groups corporate and capital structure The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the material contracts Board has access to the information it requires and that Board and other senior management appointments such information is supplied in a timely manner and is of and membership of Board committees appropriate quality to enable Directors to discharge their corporate governance procedures and other duties effectively.
In addition, Directors may take Group policies independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the course of discharging their duties.
Procedure to deal with Directors conflicts of interest A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for has a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board may other Directors when required.
authorise any potential conflicts, where appropriate, in The Company purchased and maintained directors and accordance with the Articles.
The Company has officers liability insurance throughout 2016 and it will be established comprehensive procedures for the disclosure maintained throughout 2017. of any such conflicts by Directors, and for the consideration Performance evaluation and authorisation of these by the Board.
The Board An external Board evaluation was conducted by considers each conflict on its particular facts and in the Boardroom Review Limited for the year ended 31 context of the other duties owed by the Director to the December 2016.
The Board regularly reviews and monitors potential conflicts of interest.
In preparation for the exercise, the Chairman and Company Secretary considered a number of Board evaluation Jeff Woyda, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating consultancies and the range of services which they provide.
Officer, is a Non-Executive Director of the International Boardroom Review Limited was deemed to be the most Transport Intermediaries Club ITIC.
During the year, Jeff suitable to conduct the review.
Woyda received 16,600 remuneration for serving as a Non-Executive Director of ITIC.
Following the evaluation review, the Board, its committees and individual Directors, were considered to be wellWhere a potential or possible conflict of interest arises, a functioning and effective.
In terms of the evaluation process, Director will declare their interest and not participate in the this focused on the following areas: basics use of time, decision-making process in respect of the relevant business.
quality of information, operation, support : contribution Effectiveness culture, dynamics, composition : and areas and depth of engagement strategy, risk and control, performance Succession planning management, stakeholder communications.
There are currently nine Directors on the Board of Clarkson PLC.
The structure of the Board is regularly reviewed and The review noted that there were particular strengths in the we seek to appoint the best candidate for each vacancy.
Boards positive culture, relevant composition and size, shared perspective on strategy, oversight of risk and The Board oversees the Groups senior management succession plan to ensure that there are appropriate skills control, approach to remuneration and talent management and communication with shareholders.
Areas identified for and experience within the Company and on the Board.
further consideration include the Boards longer-term The process for Board appointments is led by the engagement with strategy, composition and succession nomination committee which, in accordance with its terms planning and the use of time.
of reference, evaluates the balance of skills, experience, It should be noted that there are no connections between independence and knowledge on the Board and makes the Company and Boardroom Review Limited other than recommendations for appointments to the Board.
the services provided in relation to the evaluation review.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific term.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Details of their service contracts can be found on page 63.
A report on the work carried out by the nomination Independent Director, Peter Backhouse, have also conducted a performance evaluation of the Chairman, committee during the year is set out on page 56. taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Director induction, training and support The review concluded that the Chairman continues to be A careful assessment is made of the time commitment effective in his role.
required from the Chairman and the Non-Executive Appointment of Directors Directors to discharge their roles properly and, on Following amendment at the 2015 AGM, the Articles now appointment, new Directors are provided with a tailored provide that all Directors shall retire from office and, subject induction programme relating to the Companys business.
to satisfactory performance, are put forward for re-election All Directors are encouraged to regularly update and refresh at each AGM.
Shareholders are provided with their skills and knowledge by attending seminars and comprehensive information about the Directors subject to training sessions.
During the annual Board evaluation election and re-election, including their commitment to the process, the Directors have the opportunity to highlight any role, in the notice of AGM.
areas in which they feel professional development would be beneficial, either individually or as a unit.
The Board has James Morley will retire from the Board at the 2017 access to the Company Secretary who provides advice on AGM when he reaches nine years service as a Noncorporate governance matters.
com 53 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Company issues a Code of Business Conduct and Accountability Ethics, to which all staff are expected to adhere, in order The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term to maintain Clarksons status as a responsible and success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders, trustworthy business.
assessing the Companys position and prospects, and for All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with ensuring that the information presented to shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable.
Further details of Group policies and for identifying risks within their business areas and to ensure that these risks are controlled and Directors responsibilities for preparing the Companys financial statements are set out in the Directors monitored in the appropriate way.
The Board has established arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise The Board is responsible for: concerns about possible improprieties or wrongdoing in determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing financial reporting or other matters.
The audit committee to take in achieving its strategic objectives: regularly reviews this arrangement.
maintaining the Companys system of internal controls The Board, with advice from the audit committee, has and risk management: and carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the reviewing the effectiveness of these systems annually.
system of internal control and risk management and The audit committee is responsible for the independent confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating review and challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of and managing the Groups principal risks has operated the risk management approach and for reporting its findings throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of to the Board.
Please refer to pages 40 to 41 for more details on the principal risks facing the business and the Risk management and internal control mitigation in place.
Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of the Companys business activities, which is undertaken Board engagement with investors and using a practical and flexible framework, providing a relations with shareholders consistent and sustained approach to risk evaluation.
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to The Board has established policies and risk management communicate directly with the Board and encourages procedures together with key controls, which are reviewed their participation.
The Companys AGM will be held on in accordance with applicable regulations and best practice 12 May 2017 at the Companys office in Commodity guidelines, to ensure that they continue to be effective and Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF.
Further protect the Companys stakeholders.
details of the business to be addressed at the meeting The Companys internal control system encompasses can be found in the notice of meeting.
controls over areas including financial reporting, operations, The Executive Directors meet regularly with the compliance and risk management procedures.
Such a Companys major shareholders and make presentations system is designed to evaluate and manage rather than to analysts, institutional investors and investment eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not managers following the announcement of the interim absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is a comprehensive budgetary process in place with The Senior Independent Director is available to meet both annual and regular forecasts being considered and with shareholders and institutional investors as required.
approved by the Board and monthly monitoring of trading results taking place in order to mitigate risks associated We primarily communicate with shareholders via the with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated Companys annual and interim reports and the financial statements.
An established compliance, legal and Companys website on which the Company publishes governance process is in place to monitor regulatory its trading updates and other news released to the developments and to ensure that all existing and London Stock Exchange.
forthcoming regulations are complied with.
For shareholder information see page 74 or visit In addition to compliance with the Code, as required for all www.
listed entities, the regulated entities in the Group are all governed by the respective regulators in their jurisdictions.
Regulated entities include Clarksons Platou Securities AS CPSA and Clarksons Platou Project Sales AS CPPSA, both of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Supervisory Authority of Norway.
Through its affiliation with the US entity Clarksons Platou Securities Inc. a Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regulated entity, CPSA adheres to best practice in respect of the SEC rules.
Each of these regulatory bodies incorporates rules and practices which require all registered firms to adhere to high standards of corporate governance.
54 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 54 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
