Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 47 Corporate Governance As chairman of Close Brothers, I view the governance and oversight of its distinctive and prudent business model and straightforward, consistent strategy as key to the continuing creation and delivery of high quality growth and returns throughout the economic cycle.
This model ensures the provision of value to the companys Strone Macpherson, Chairman stakeholders in a range of market conditions.
To provide this oversight, the board met seven times this For Asset Management, the focus has been on continuing to year.
Prior to each meeting the board receives reports on the monitor progress in meeting strategic objectives and on results of each of the divisions and key performance reviewing IT strategy and ability to develop a high quality indicators, together with detailed updates on the progress integrated proposition.
and implementation of the agreed strategies for each division.
The board has the opportunity to discuss the The board has also spent time considering challenges reports and challenge each of the divisional chief executives, facing the businesses from political, regulatory and tax who attend all or part of the board meetings, directly on the developments, reviewing the balance between controlling progress and implementation of their divisional strategy.
In costs and continuing to invest in the business for the long addition, in May 2016 the board attended two strategy days term and examining trends in customer and competitor dedicated to discussing and reviewing the groups long-term behaviour.
We are committed to the principles established in the UK The groups strategy was set several years ago and Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the continues to produce good growth and strong returns.
This Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014.
This year the boards focus has again been on reviewing its report will explain and demonstrate how the group has delivery by the divisions.
Within the Banking division, there applied the principles set out in the Code and complied with has been a monitoring of its major businesses, a review of its provisions of best practice.
the strengthening of its IT infrastructure and a continued focus on the further development of its risk management Strone Macpherson function.
For the Securities division, the board has spent time Chairman reviewing the measures taken by Winterflood to manage volatile market conditions by reducing risk in order to 27 September 2016 maintain profitability.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 48 Corporate Governance continued Compliance It is the boards view that the companys governance regime The Code has been applied by the company throughout the has been fully compliant with the best practice set out in the financial year.
In April 2016, the FRC updated the Code, Code for the financial year.
publishing a revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Revised Code.
The Revised Code is not applicable to A copy of the Code can be found on the FRCs website: the company in the year under review, but the company will www.
report under it in the financial year ending 31 July 2017.
The Board The Code sets out guidance on best practice in the form of Leadership of the board principles and provisions on how companies should be The boards primary role is to provide leadership, ensure that directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
the company is appropriately managed and delivers longThe Financial Conduct Authority FCA requires companies term shareholder value.
It sets the groups strategic with a premium listing in the UK to disclose, in relation to the objectives and provides direction for the group as a whole.
Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they A number of key decisions are reserved for and may only be have complied with its provisions throughout the financial made by the board, which enables the board and executive year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with, management to operate within a clear governance companies must provide an explanation for this.
These specific responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the board, which is published on the companys website, and they are summarised opposite.
Governance Framework Board governance structure The Board Audit Remuneration Risk Nomination and Committee Committee Committee Governance Committee Executive Committee Responsible for developing strategy, setting business objectives and assisting the chief executive with management of the group.
Board and committee meeting attendance 2015 2016 The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings of which they were members during the financial year is shown in the table below.
Some directors also attended committee meetings as invitees during the year.
This is not reflected in the table.
Remuneration Nomination and 1 Board Audit Committee Committee Risk Committee Governance Committee Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Executive director Preben Prebensen 7 7 Stephen Hodges 7 7 Jonathan Howell 7 7 Elizabeth Lee 7 7 Non-executive director Strone Macpherson 7 7 5 5 Oliver Corbett 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 Geoffrey Howe 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 Lesley Jones 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 Bridget Macaskill 7 7 5 5 5 5 6 6 5 5 1 The Risk Committee held five regular meetings during the year, together with one meeting specifically to consider the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 49 Specific responsibilities that may arise are filled by the most qualified candidates and Approval of strategy and monitoring its delivery.
recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Oversight of risk management, regulatory compliance board.
When board positions become available as a result of and internal control.
retirement, resignation or otherwise, it is focused on ensuring Ensuring adequate financial resources.
that a diverse pool of candidates is considered.
Recent Acquisitions, disposals and expenditure over certain appointments have required specialist qualifications and thresholds.
extensive financial services experience, whilst also widening Approval of communications to shareholders.
the range of insights and perspectives brought to the boards Board membership and other appointments.
Details of the individual directors and their biographies are The board has delegated specific powers for some matters set out on pages 42 and 43. to its committees, as set out in each committees terms of reference.
These terms of reference, which are reviewed The board has assessed the independence of each of the annually, detail a full list of each committees responsibilities non-executive directors and is of the opinion that each acts and are available on our website at www.
com in an independent and objective manner and therefore, investor-relations investor-information corporate-governance.
under the Code, is independent and free from any The chairman of each committee reports regularly to the relationship that could affect their judgement.
The boards board on matters discussed at committee meetings.
opinion was determined by considering for each non-executive director: At each scheduled meeting the board receives reports from Whether they are independent in character and the chief executive and finance director on the performance judgement: and results of the group.
In addition, the heads of the How they conduct themselves in board and committee Banking, Securities and Asset Management divisions update meetings: the board on performance, strategic developments and Whether they have any interests which may give rise to an initiatives in their respective areas and the head of legal and actual or perceived conflict of interest: and regulatory affairs provides updates on legal matters.
In Whether they act in the best interests of the company and addition the board receives updates from the group of all its shareholders at all times.
operating functions on human resources and corporate development matters, risk, compliance and internal audit.
The company has therefore complied with the Code provision that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Each that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed non-executive director is required to confirm at least annually, at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
whether any circumstances exist which could impair their Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time independence.
for consideration and debate of all matters.
Meetings and attendance During the year, the board has spent time particularly on: The board held seven scheduled meetings in addition to the Presentations from businesses within the Banking division: two day strategy session.
Details of attendance at board Review of IT strategy and information systems: meetings can be found on page 48. Review of the competitive landscape: Engagement with regulators and HM Treasury: The directors receive detailed papers in advance of each Discussions over prioritisation of investment expenditure: board meeting.
The board agenda is carefully structured by Review of the group Recovery and Resolution Plan: the chairman in consultation with the chief executive and the Approval of the ICAAP: company secretary.
Each director may review the agenda Careful monitoring of market conditions prior to and and propose items for discussion with the chairmans following the UK referendum and consideration of the agreement.
Additional information is also circulated to implications of its result: directors between meetings including relevant updates on Review of implementation of recommendations of 2015 the business and regulatory announcements.
Board Effectiveness Review: Understanding the EU Market Abuse Regulation: and The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a A discussion of the format and content of the board substantial time in advance in order to ensure the availability papers and of its use of time.
In the event that directors are unable to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they All directors also attended a dedicated two day strategy receive papers in the normal manner and have the session in May 2016 on strategy development and execution.
opportunity to relay their comments in advance of the meeting, as well as follow up with the chairman if necessary.
Board size, composition and independence The same process applies in respect of the various board The board comprises nine members: the chairman, four committees.
executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
Chairman and chief executive The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate The structure of the board ensures that no individual or and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the group of individuals is able to dominate the decision making two roles.
The chairman is Strone Macpherson.
His other process and no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
significant commitments are set out in his biography on page The board comprises six male and three female members.
The board is satisfied that his other commitments do not This means that a third of the directors are women.
The restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 50 Corporate Governance continued As chairman, Strone Macpherson is primarily responsible for The verbal feedback was insightful and the responses were leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement positive.
They were concentrated on engagement in strategic and contribution of all the directors.
His other responsibilities planning, use of time, quality of board materials and board include setting the agenda for board meetings, providing the composition.
directors with information in an accurate, clear and timely manner and the promotion of effective decision making.
The The 2016 evaluation also assessed the effectiveness of each chairman is also charged with ensuring that the directors of the boards committees.
The committee members were continually update their skills and knowledge and that the asked questions regarding governance arrangements, the performance of the board, its committees and the individual quality of advice and input from external advisers, the quality directors is evaluated on an annual basis.
of contribution of relevant internal functions, the timeliness, relevance and quality of presentations and disclosure by the The group chief executive is Preben Prebensen who is executive and the overall effectiveness of the committees.
primarily responsible for the day-to-day management of the The feedback was positive with improved scores given, groups business.
His other responsibilities include proposing compared to two years ago.
and developing strategic objectives for the group, managing the groups risk exposures in line with board policies, The evaluation confirmed the directors opinion that the implementing the decisions of the board and facilitating board and its committees continue to be highly effective.
appropriate and effective communication with shareholders and regulatory bodies.
In addition to the board evaluation process, the senior independent director led a separate performance review in Senior independent director respect of the chairman which involved a review with the The senior independent director is Geoffrey Howe.
In non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, and addition to the existing channels for shareholder separate consultation with the chief executive.
The senior communications, shareholders may discuss any issues or independent director subsequently provided feedback to the concerns they may have with the senior independent chairman on his appraisal which confirmed his effectiveness.
EU Market Abuse Regulation Powers of directors In June 2016, the board received a report on the impact of The directors are responsible for the management of the the EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR which on 3 July company.
They may exercise all powers of the company, 2016 replaced the Model Code, contained within the FCA subject to any directions given by special resolution and the Listing Rules, and many of the FCA Disclosure Rules.
The directors have been authorised to directors were informed of the restrictions on personal share allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market account dealing applicable to them as persons discharging purchases of the companys ordinary shares by virtue of managerial responsibility, set out in MAR and in the resolutions passed at the companys 2015 AGM.
companys revised share dealing policy for them.
Board evaluation Given the expansion of the scope of the regime and the In 2015, the evaluation of the board and its committees was introduction of more stringent regulation and significant new carried out by an external consultant.
The report contained a procedural requirements in a number of areas, it was number of observations and recommendations, designed to decided to establish a Disclosure Committee.
The purpose encourage the board to optimise its contribution to the of this new committee is to assist with ensuring timely and success of the company and to add value beyond the legal accurate disclosure of all information that the company is requirements, by building on existing strengths, agreeing the required to disclose to meet the legal and regulatory challenges ahead and preparing for the future.
Overall, the obligations and requirements arising from its listing on the conclusions from the evaluation were positive and identified London Stock Exchange.
Appointment of directors In April 2016, the Nomination and Governance Committee The appointment of directors is governed by the companys recommended that the 2016 board evaluation be undertaken articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other internally, as permitted by the Code.
The evaluation took the applicable regulations and policies.
Directors may be elected form of confidential questionnaires which assessed the by shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the performance of the board and its committees.
board of directors in accordance with the provisions of the articles of association.
The articles of association may be The questions were set to develop the themes explored in amended by special resolution of the shareholders and were previous years evaluations in order to assess the progress of last amended in November 2009. the board over the year, particularly in its implementation of the recommendations made in 2015.
The 2016 evaluation In accordance with the Code all directors are subject to therefore focused on the following areas: re-election at the AGM.
The board will only recommend to Review of implementation of 2015 recommendations: shareholders that executive and non-executive directors be Use of time at meetings: proposed for re-election at an AGM after evaluating the Strategic direction: performance of the individual directors.
Following the Further development of the board as a team: performance evaluations, the board will be recommending Succession planning: and that all directors standing for re-election be re-elected by Exposure to the senior management cadre.
shareholders and confirms that each director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their role.
The feedback from the evaluations was collated by the company secretary, reviewed with the chairman and presented to the board by the chairman in June 2016.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 51 Letters of appointment are available for inspection by processes, with early warning trigger levels set to drive the shareholders at each AGM and during normal business required corrective action before overall tolerance levels are hours at the companys registered office.
The risk framework, through key committees, including the Risk Committee and Audit Committee, is the Induction and professional development mechanism that ensures the board receives comprehensive On appointment all new directors receive a comprehensive risk information in a timely manner.
and personalised induction programme to familiarise them with the company and to meet their specific requirements.
Identification, measurement and management of risk are The company also provides bespoke inductions for directors fundamental to the success of the group.
Over the past when they are appointed as a committee chairman.
12 months the group has continued to strengthen its risk Induction programmes are tailored to a directors particular management framework and further develop the groups risk requirements, but would typically include site visits, one-tocommittees, at both board and divisional level, and these one meetings with executive directors, the company continue to work efficiently and effectively.
secretary, senior management for the business areas and support functions and a confidential meeting with the The groups risk and control framework is designed to allow external auditor.
Directors also receive guidance on directors the capture of business opportunities while maintaining an liabilities and responsibilities.
appropriate balance of risk and reward within the groups agreed risk appetite.
It further ensures that the risks to which There is a central training programme in place for the the group is, or may become, exposed are appropriately directors which is reviewed and considered by the board.
In identified, and that those which the group chooses to take, addition, the chairman discusses and agrees any specific are managed, controlled and where necessary, mitigated, so requirements as part of each non-executive directors half that the group is not subject to material unexpected loss.
year and year end reviews.
During the year, training took the form of informal meetings with senior management within the The group reviews and adjusts its risk appetite annually as businesses and control functions, lunches with emerging part of the strategy setting process.
This aligns risk taking leaders and with members of the graduate programme, with the achievement of strategic objectives.
Adherence to in-depth business reviews, attendance at external seminars appetite is monitored by the groups risk committees.
and briefings from the regulators and from internal and external advisers covering topics such as: The Risk Committee throughout the year undertakes a Senior Managers Regime: robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and Cyber security: has reviewed reports from the risk function on the processes Digital marketing and social media: for the management and mitigation of those risks.
The Corporate governance update: Committee confirms through annual review, the adequacy Regulatory developments: and effectiveness of the groups risk management and Accounting changes: internal control arrangements in relation to the groups Audit tendering and rotation: and strategy and risk profile for the financial year.
On the basis of Whistle-blowing.
its own review, the board considers that it has in place adequate systems and controls with regard to the Training and development records are maintained by the companys profile and strategy.
company secretary and reviewed annually by the chairman and each individual director.
The risk management framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence, as set out in the table on page 52, The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the and the key principles underlying risk management in the board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are group are: observed.
All directors have direct access to the services Business management own all the risks assumed and advice of the company secretary who also acts as throughout the group and are responsible for their secretary to each of the board committees.
Directors are management on a day-to-day basis to ensure that risk and able to take independent external professional advice to return are balanced: assist with the performance of their duties at the companys The board and business management promote a culture expense.
in which risks are identified, assessed and reported in an open, transparent and objective manner: Risk and Control Framework The overriding priority is to protect the groups long-term The board has overall responsibility for maintaining a system viability and produce sustainable medium to long-term of internal control to ensure that an effective risk revenue streams: management and oversight process operates across the Risk functions are independent of the businesses and group.
The risk management framework and associated provide oversight of and advice on the management of risk governance arrangements are designed to ensure that there across the group: is a clear organisation structure with well defined, transparent Risk management activities across the group are and consistent lines of responsibility and effective processes proportionate to the scale and complexity of the groups to identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which the individual businesses: group is, or might become, exposed.
The board has a well Risk mitigation and control activities are commensurate defined risk appetite with risk appetite measures which are with the degree of risk: and integrated into decision making, monitoring and reporting Risk management and control supports decision making.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 52 Corporate Governance continued Risk Management Framework First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence The businesses Risk and Compliance Internal Audit Group Risk and Compliance Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Reports to the Risk Committee Reports to the board Reports to the board Chief executive delegates to divisional Risk Committee delegates to the group Audit Committee mandates the head of and operating business heads day-tochief risk officer day-to-day responsibility group internal audit with day-to-day day responsibility for risk management, for oversight and challenge on risk responsibility for independent regulatory compliance, internal control related issues.
and conduct in running their divisions or businesses.
Risk functions including compliance Internal audit provides independent provide support and independent assurance on: Business management has day-to-day challenge on: First and second line of defence: ownership, responsibility and The design and operation of the risk Appropriateness effectiveness of accountability for risks: framework: internal controls: and Identifying and assessing risks: Risk assessment: Effectiveness of policy Managing and controlling risks: Risk appetite and strategy: implementation.
Measuring risk key risk indicators Performance management: early warning indicators : Risk reporting: Key features Mitigating risks: and Adequacy of mitigation plans: and Draws on deep knowledge of the Reporting risks.
group and its businesses: Independent assurance on the Key features Key features activities of the firm including the risk Promotes a strong risk culture and Overarching risk oversight unit takes management framework: focus on sustainable risk-adjusted an integrated view of risk qualitative Assesses the appropriateness and returns: and quantitative : effectiveness of internal controls: and Implements the risk framework: Supports through developing and Incorporates review of culture and Promotes a culture of adhering to advising on risk strategies: conduct.
limits and managing risk exposures: Facilitates constructive check and Promotes a culture of customer focus challenge critical friend trusted and appropriate behaviours: adviser: and Ongoing monitoring of positions and Oversight of business conduct.
management of risks: Portfolio optimisation: and Self-assessment.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 53 The Risk Committees principal roles and responsibilities are to support the board in its oversight of risk management across the group.
The following sections set out the Committees membership, its key responsibilities and the principal areas of risk upon which we have focused during the year.
The identification, management Lesley Jones, Chairman of the Risk Committee and mitigation of risk is fundamental to the success of the group.
The Committee plays an important role in setting the tone and culture that promotes effective risk management across the group.
Risk Committee As in previous years the Committee apportions its time Chairmans overview between the planned periodic review of key portfolio risks The UKs decision to leave the EU will pose challenges for and the close scrutiny of new business risks as they develop.
consumers and companies alike until the economic impact This approach allows us to ensure that emerging risks can of the vote becomes clearer.
While the economy remains be identified and debated and that managements plans for fundamentally strong, increased vigilance will be required risk mitigation are well understood and appropriately to assess the full extent of potential UK exit on key resourced.
During the year the Committee saw further macroeconomic factors.
Given the uneven recovery of the improvement in the quality of the management information global economy in recent years, global markets remain that it receives.
sensitive to geopolitical shifts, and in addition to the uncertainties stemming from the recent referendum, the UK Committee roles and responsibilities remains susceptible to further dislocation within the The Committees key roles and responsibilities are to: Eurozone.
Oversee the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk: Economic challenges, and a heavy regulatory agenda Review and set risk appetite, which is the level of risk the targeted at bolstering the strength of the banking industry group is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives: and the conduct of those working within it, have kept the Monitor the groups risk profile against the prescribed Risk Committee fully occupied throughout the year.
I am appetite: pleased to report that Close Brothers prudent and Review the effectiveness of the risk framework to ensure consistent risk appetite has allowed us to maintain a robust that key risks are identified and appropriately managed: capital position and low risk profile.
Significant and enhancements to our risk management and risk appetite Provide input from a risk perspective into the alignment of frameworks have been made throughout the year, and we remuneration with performance against risk appetite are satisfied that we have the skills and talent across the through the Remuneration Committee.
group to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 54 Corporate Governance continued Membership and meetings Emerging risk assessment has been an increasing focus of The Committee comprises each of the independent nonthe risk management team and a standing agenda item for executive directors, with me as chairman.
Five scheduled the Committees discussion.
In the run-up to the UKs EU meetings were held during the year and these were referendum, the Committee considered and discussed the supplemented by an additional meeting for early review of groups preparedness for a potential UK exit from the EU, the annual ICAAP and its stress assumptions.
and oversaw the development of the groups strategy to ensure any immediate impact would be appropriately Full details of attendance by the non-executive directors at mitigated.
This work stood us in good stead as the result of these meetings during the year are set out on page 48. the referendum became clear.
In addition to the members of the Committee, standing A number of areas of operational risk were stressed as part invitations are extended to the company chairman, the of the annual ICAAP process.
Following robust debate and executive directors, the chief risk officer, the head of challenge, the Committee and board were satisfied that the compliance and the head of internal audit.
All attend our groups business model and allocated risk appetite remained Committee meetings as a matter of course and have appropriate.
This is an important outcome given the number supported and informed the Committees discussions.
of change management programmes underway across the group, and in our regular meetings there is specific focus on Other executives, subject matter experts, risk team the progress of key projects and initiatives.
members and external advisers are invited to attend the Committee from time to time as required to present and Ensuring that we remain fully compliant with the numerous advise on reports commissioned.
new banking rules is increasingly challenging and we continue to actively engage with the PRA, FCA and industry I meet regularly with the chief risk officer and his risk team in bodies to ensure that our risk framework remains a combination of formal and informal sessions, and with appropriate and relevant for all our businesses.
senior management across all divisions of the group to discuss the business environment and to gather their views Remuneration of emerging risks.
The linkage between culture, risk and compensation is an important one and the Risk Committee and the chief risk Activity in the 2016 financial year officer have provided input to the Remuneration Committee Further enhancements were made to the groups risk again this year to ensure that risk behaviours and the management framework in 2016, including the continued management of operational risk incidents over the course of evolution of the three lines of defence model to ensure that it the financial year were appropriately reflected in decisions remains aligned to industry and regulatory standards.
The taken about performance and reward.
risk organisational design was revised with the amalgamation of all risk teams under common leadership.
New enterpriseLooking ahead to 2017 wide risk roles were also created covering operational risk, Key priorities for the coming year include: risk assurance, model risk and risk appetite.
These changes Refining our early warning indicators, to further develop have proved invaluable in providing the Committee with our ability to identify and respond effectively to changes in improved governance, oversight and quantitative metrics.
the economic environment, particularly following the UKs Changes to the risk governance framework also resulted in decision to leave the EU.
improved visibility and consistency across the groups risk Embedding the enhanced group risk appetite framework, and compliance committees, as well as enhanced reporting including the continued development of quantitative risk capability across the group and at board level.
Continuously improving our management information, risk The identification and management of conduct risk was systems and risk reporting capabilities, to underpin the strengthened with the development of a new conduct risk effectiveness and efficiency of the Committee.
The greater detail now available as a result of Implementing the fourth Money Laundering Directive and these enhancements will improve the boards top-down preparing for MIFID II.
visibility on behaviours across the group, and provide further comfort that the groups sound risk culture is well Lesley Jones embedded.
Chairman of the Risk Committee Cyber crime is becoming ever more sophisticated and the 27 September 2016 increasing frequency of cyber attacks across the sector has highlighted the importance of having strong cyber defences to protect the groups systems and the customer data that the group may hold.
During the year the board and the Committee have regularly reviewed the strength of the groups cyber defences including the results of a group-wide cyber exercise undertaken to ensure that our systems and people are well prepared to respond to any attack.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 55 The Audit Committees key roles and responsibilities are to assess the integrity of the groups external financial reporting and in particular to review managements significant financial reporting judgements to ensure they are appropriate, review the effectiveness of the groups Oliver Corbett, Chairman of the Audit Committee internal controls, and monitor and review the activities and performance of both internal and external audit.
Audit Committee Membership and meetings Chairmans overview The Committee comprises each of the independent nonThe Committee has considered a wide range of topics this executive directors and acts independently of the executive year with key areas of focus on the following: to protect the interests of shareholders.
Review and challenge of the groups external financial reporting and in particular the key accounting judgements Five meetings of the Committee were held during the year taken in preparing the financial statements.
scheduled to coincide with the financial reporting cycle of the Oversight of the effectiveness of both internal and external group.
Attendance details of each of the Committee audit including preparation for the external audit tender members is shown in the table on page 48.
The process to be carried out during the 2017 financial year.
qualifications of each of the members are outlined in the Review and challenge of key group financial policies biographies on page 43.
The board considers that I have the including a revised whistle-blowing policy.
appropriate recent and relevant experience.
Monitoring the groups response to current and future accounting and regulatory change.
In particular we have As well as the non-executive members of the Committee, considered the adequacy and reasonableness of the standing invitations are extended to the chairman of the groups disclosures around the new viability statement and board and the executive directors, all of whom attend received a further update on managements preparation meetings as a matter of practice.
The heads of internal audit, for the revised impairment approach required by IFRS 9 risk and compliance as well as the group financial controller Financial Instruments.
also attend meetings by invitation and I meet with this group along with the group finance director in advance of each Looking forward, the Committees agenda will continue to be meeting to agree the agenda and receive full briefing on all focused on these key areas, with particular focus in the year relevant issues.
Finally, the lead audit partner also attends ahead on the oversight of the audit tender process.
each of the meetings and I have regular contact with him throughout the year.
The Committee met with both internal and external audit privately at each meeting held during the year.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 56 Corporate Governance continued Activity in the 2016 Financial Year Other policies Key accounting judgements The Committee also completed annual reviews of the Credit provisioning groups recovery and resolution plan, tax position and policy, The Committee received presentations from management approach to hedging for share awards and approved a explaining the provisioning methodology across the groups revised policy for non-audit services to the external auditor to lending operations ahead of both the interim and full year reflect updated rules and guidance.
Management and the external auditors were challenged over the level of provisioning and, noting the Internal Audit consistency of approach taken, the Committee concluded The Committee receives a report from the head of internal that the provisioning approach and judgements made audit at each meeting summarising audits completed as well were reasonable.
as monitoring progress on agreed actions from previous audits.
The report also details key themes, audits planned The Committee was also updated on progress with and in progress, as well as commentary on internal audit managements work in preparation for the introduction of related business culture.
During the year 26 audits were IFRS 9 which will require provisioning methodology to take completed.
In addition the Committee reviewed and agreed into account future expected losses.
The Committee will the internal audit plan as well as pre-approving any changes continue to monitor progress in preparation for this material to the plan throughout the year.
accounting change which will apply to the group from the 2019 financial year.
Following the prior year independent effectiveness review of internal audit, an internal effectiveness survey was completed Revenue recognition in the year.
This review further confirmed the Committees The Committee reviewed a paper outlining the groups view that the internal audit function is effective.
approach to revenue recognition, highlighting the key areas where management judgement is required particularly The Committee continues to keep the level of resources of around interest, fee and commission income.
The the internal audit team under review.
Since 2009, the group Committee was reassured over the consistency of approach has operated a co-source arrangement with PwC to ensure and ultimately was satisfied that the approach taken the function has sufficient access to expertise across the continued to be appropriate.
The group intends to carry out a tender for this arrangement in the 2017 financial year.
Goodwill The annual assessment of the carrying value of goodwill was External Audit reviewed as well as a paper during the year considering the The Committee assesses the independence and objectivity, goodwill carried in relation to Winterflood following the lower qualifications and effectiveness of the external auditor on an reported profits for that business in the first half of the annual basis as well as making a recommendation on the financial year.
Following review and challenge of the groups reappointment of the auditor to the board.
value in use calculations and key assumptions, the Committee agreed with managements conclusion that the Our evaluation which was consistent with prior years focused carrying value of goodwill across the group was reasonably on the following key areas: stated.
The quality of audit expertise, judgement and dialogue with the Committee and senior management: Other financial reporting The independence and objectivity demonstrated by the Viability statement audit team: and In order to support the boards approval of the statement on The quality of service including consistency of approach page 46 as to the longer-term viability of the group, the and responsiveness.
Committee reviewed papers from management setting out the intended approach to the new disclosure and providing This process was facilitated by a group-wide survey of details in support of the statement based in particular on the finance teams, a survey of the Deloitte LLP senior audit groups three year plan and the results of stress testing.
teams view on the group and a review of audit and nonaudit fees.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee continues to consider on behalf of the board Overall the Committee has concluded that Deloitte LLP whether the groups reporting is fair, balanced and remain independent and that their audit is effective.
This included discussing the disclosures as a whole with the executive directors.
Policy oversight and review Whistle-blowing The Committee oversaw and agreed a revised whistleblowing policy.
The policy was re-launched to all staff with an email from me as the groups whistle-blowers champion.
This reiterated the importance the group places on all staff understanding the process to enable to speak out when appropriate.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 57 The Committee oversees the groups policy on the provision Nomination and Governance Committee of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The policy was This report sets out the role and responsibilities of the revised during the year to reflect revised ethical guidance on Nomination and Governance Committee.
auditor independence issued by the FRC.
The main impact of the new guidance for the group is that tax compliance Committee roles and responsibilities services will no longer be provided by the external auditor The Committees key roles and responsibilities are: and the group appointed new advisers during the year.
Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition However, while the key principle of our policy remains that of the board: permission to engage the external auditor will always be Considering the leadership needs of the group and refused when a threat to independence and or objectivity is considering succession planning for directors and other perceived, the Committee continues to see benefits for the senior executives: group in engaging Deloitte LLP where: Considering the appointment or retirement of directors: Work is closely related to the audit: Evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience required A detailed understanding of the group is required: and for a particular appointment, normally with the assistance Deloitte LLP is able to provide a higher quality and or of external advisers used to facilitate the search for suitable better value service.
candidates: and Assessing the contribution of the non-executive directors.
During the year non-audit fees amounted to 0.7 million and were 59% of the overall audit fee 2015: 56%.
Non-audit fees Membership and meetings in the year were: The Committee comprises Geoffrey Howe, the senior independent director, Oliver Corbett, Lesley Jones and Bridget Macaskill who chair the Audit, Risk and million Remuneration Committees respectively and me as Assurance work on: chairman.
Each of the Committee members is independent.
Systems and controls 0.3 Funding 0.2 Five meetings were held during the year which were attended by all members.
In addition, the chief executive Tax compliance 0.2 attends meetings by invitation, as does the group head of human resources when presenting a review of talent and 0.7 executive management succession planning.
The Committee concluded that all of these fees fell within its Non-executive directors skill sets criteria for engaging Deloitte LLP and does not believe they During the year, the Committee reaffirmed its members skill pose a threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
sets including each of its members extensive experience within a financial services organisation.
Geoffrey Howe is Audit tender senior independent director with extensive experience within As previously reported every year since the 2013 Annual the industry including as a chairman.
Oliver Corbett has Report, the Committee intends that an audit tender will take strong financial skills and a track record of audit committee place to coincide with the completion of the current lead experience including as a finance director.
Lesley Jones has partners five year term in 2017.
The Committee will oversee familiarity with FCA PRA and EU risk regulations and Bridget the tender process and is committed to ensure a fair, Macaskill has significant remuneration committee credentials transparent and proportionate process is put in place and familiarity with FCA PRA and EU remuneration regulations.
including a clearly articulated set of selection criteria agreed by the Committee in advance.
Activity in the 2016 financial year During the year the Committee focused on: Deloitte LLP or its predecessor firm has audited the group Board succession: since it was first listed in 1984, but has only acted as the Talent review and executive management succession groups sole auditor since 2008.
Although a full audit tender planning: was not carried out, a detailed proposal was reviewed at that Board evaluation including a review of implementation of time prior to Deloitte LLPs appointment as sole auditor to the recommendations from the 2015 review: and the group.
Given the length of its tenure and the revised Review of the non-executive directors skill sets to ensure code, Deloitte LLP will not participate in the tender process.
that an appropriate balance of skills has been maintained.
Oliver Corbett Strone Macpherson Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee 27 September 2016 27 September 2016 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 58 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee Substantial Shareholdings The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration is set The company has been notified to 16 September 2016 under out on pages 60 to 81. the provisions of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the following significant interests in the voting rights Conflicts of Interest of the company.
The articles of association include provisions giving the directors authority to approve conflicts of interest and Ordinary Voting potential conflicts of interest as permitted under the shares rights millions % Companies Act 2006.
Standard Life Investments 19.5 13.02 A procedure has been established whereby actual and M&G Investment Management 10.0 6.81 potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and Aberdeen Asset Managers 9.5 6.42 appropriate authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of Royal London Asset Management 7.4 4.96 any new director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights non-conflicted directors and in making such a decision the from those of other shareholders.
directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities board believes this procedure operated effectively The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual throughout the year.
Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Investor Relations The group has a comprehensive investor relations IR Company law requires the directors to prepare financial programme to ensure that current and potential statements for each financial year.
Under that law the shareholders, as well as financial analysts, are kept well directors are required to prepare the group financial informed of the groups performance and have appropriate statements in accordance with International Financial access to management to understand the companys Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European business and strategy.
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements The board believes it is important to maintain open and in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted constructive relationships with all shareholders.
The IR team, Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards reporting to the group finance director, are responsible for and applicable law, including FRS 102 The Financial managing a structured programme of meetings, calls and Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of presentations around the financial reporting calendar as well Ireland.
Under company law the directors must not approve as throughout the year.
The chief executive and group the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true finance director meet with the groups major institutional and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the shareholders on a regular basis.
In addition, the chairman profit or loss of the company for that period.
arranges to meet with them once a year to discuss challenges facing the board, particularly in relation to In preparing the parent company financial statements, the strategy, corporate governance and succession planning.
directors are required to: Separately the senior independent director is available, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them should shareholders wish to discuss any concerns they consistently: may have.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: All shareholders also have the opportunity to raise questions State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have with the board at the AGM, either in person or by submitting been followed, subject to any material departures written questions in advance.
The chairman of each of the disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and board committees attends the AGM and all other directors Prepare the financial statements on the going concern are expected to attend the meeting.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The board is regularly updated on the IR programme.
An IR report, summarising share price performance, share register In preparing the group financial statements, International composition and feedback from any investor meetings, is Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: produced for each board meeting.
Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a In November 2015, we ran a successful Banking division manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and seminar, providing greater detail to investors and analysts on understandable information: our largest division.
This presentation, together with all Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the results announcements, annual reports, regulatory news specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable announcements and other relevant documents, is available users to understand the impact of particular transactions, on the IR section of the group website www.
other events and conditions on the entitys financial com investor-relations.
position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 59 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the board Nicholas Jennings Company Secretary 27 September 2016
