AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Committee members attendance during the year ended Dear Shareholder 31 December 2016 The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on financial reporting, including the valuation assumptions for the property Malcolm Cooper Chairman 4 4 portfolio, internal control and risk management.
It also reviews the performance, independence, effectiveness and annual Chris Jarvis 4 4 remuneration of the external auditor.
4 4 Elizabeth Edwards Committee Membership The Committee s membership remains unchanged, and comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors.
For the purposes of Audit Committee regular attendees for part by invitation the Code, Mr Cooper, Ms Edwards and Mr Jarvis are regarded as having recent and relevant accounting and financial experience.
Deloitte LLP, independent Mark Beddy The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, certain senior external auditor management and the Companys auditor are normally invited to attend the meetings.
At each meeting there is a standing agenda Fredrik Widlund Chief Executive Officer item facilitating the opportunity for the Companys auditor to meet without management present.
The Company Secretary John Whiteley Chief Financial Officer acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Company Secretary and Secretary David Fuller Companys website at www.
com to the Audit Committee Independent external valuers For Board biographies see pages Cushman & Wakefield UK and Germany 36-37 Independent external valuers Knight Frank Vauxhall Square Independent external valuers Jones Lang LaSalle France OUR PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES IN 2016 January March August November Review of principal risks Review of year end results Review of half-year results External Audit tender and uncertainties Review of the Companys KPIs Meeting the UK Valuers Meeting the German Valuers Meeting the French Valuers Consideration and initiation Audit Tender decision of Audit Tender process Review of: Review of: Review of: Property valuations Property valuations Principal risks Significant accounting, Significant accounting, Monitoring of internal reporting and judgemental reporting and judgemental controls and risk matters including going matters including going management concern concern KPIs Principal risks Code requirements Internal audit function Monitoring of internal Principal risks Committee performance controls and risk Monitoring of internal management Terms of reference controls and risk Reappointment of auditor management Whistleblowing at AGM Non-audit fees Fair, balanced and understandable Receive Auditors Report Receive Auditors Report Receive Auditors planning report, review the year end audit scope and materiality, and agree 2016 audit fee 70 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Significant issues considered by the Committee How they were addressed Property Valuations The Committee met with the Groups valuers, Cushman and Wakefield and Knight Frank UK, Cushman and Wakefield Germany and Jones Lang LaSalle France to which it invited the whole Board, and discussed the methodology used for the bi-annual valuations of the Groups properties and developments.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations in relation to the portfolio and its associated key risks, such as specific local market updates, vacancy levels and rental demand, which management were addressing.
Accounting for other financial investments The Committee reviewed how management accounted for its other financial investments, principally in corporate bonds and in Catena AB.
The Committee agreed with the value of these investments.
Brexit The Committee discussed the impact of Brexit on the principal risks and uncertainties and provided the full Board on its views at their wider discussion as set out in the Strategic Review.
Revenue Recognition The Committee considered the appropriateness of the recognition of tenant incentives ensuring that these were appropriately spread over the lease term and of the accounting for material surrender premiums that had been received.
The Committee was satisfied that there was sufficient management oversight and that revenue had been appropriately accounted for.
Management Override of Controls The Committee assessed the framework for financial controls to be regularly reviewed by management and brought to the Committee for review.
The external auditor confirmed to the Committee that there were defined lines of reporting and control processes in place within the Group.
AUDIT TENDER The external audit was put out to tender in 2007 when the current auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed.
The lead audit partner was changed by rotation in 2012.
There are no contractual obligations to restrict the Companys choice of external auditor.
As explained in last years report and in compliance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, the Committee undertook a competitive tender process, which would be effective for the financial year ending 2017.
The Committees key objectives of the audit tender process were to assess the firms real estate experience, compare the overall competence of the teams, and understand how they made use of leading technology and analytical tools in the auditing process.
The Committee also addressed their previous transition experience.
Following the selection process, the tender involved initial interviews with three shortlisted professional auditing firms, including Deloitte LLP, from which two were selected to progress to the second round.
The two shortlisted firms then participated in a further round of interviews with a number of key senior managers within the Group, followed by a final presentation to the Committee in November.
The Committee concluded that both shortlisted firms demonstrated a high level of competence on all audit matters.
However, on balance, the Committee believed that Deloitte LLP would provide a more consistent audit approach which was a better fit with the Groups culture.
In addition the Committee were impressed with their wider real estate knowledge and use of leading edge analytical technology to support the audit process.
As a result, a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte as external auditors at the 2017 Annual General Meeting will be proposed.
KEY AREAS DISCUSSED AND REVIEWED BY THE COMMITTEE External Audit Process The Committee reviewed the external audit strategy and the findings of the Companys auditor from its review of the Half-Yearly Financial Report and from its audit of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It reviewed the letters of representation at both the full year and half year and recommended the same to the Board for signature.
Additionally, the Committee met with the Companys auditor prior to the final sign-off meeting for this Annual Report and Accounts in order to receive his report on the external audit process.
The Committee is pleased to report that at both the half year and the full year, after reviewing the significant risks identified by the Companys auditor and how management had mitigated them, there was no issue of a material nature which needed to be addressed or brought to the Boards attention.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the full year and half year external audit processes, the performance of the Companys auditor and, separately, sought the views of senior management.
The Committee concluded that the external audit strategy had been met, and that key accounting and auditing judgments had been identified by the Companys auditor.
The Committee concluded that Deloitte LLP had undertaken the external audit in line with the audit plan, and it was agreed to recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP be asked to continue as the Companys auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee discussed with management and subsequently agreed the statutory audit fee and the scope of the statutory audit.
71 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Viability Statement The Committee discussed how best to assess the Groups prospects over a term which was considered appropriate.
It was decided that the statement should correspond with the way in which the Group models its forecasts, being the current year plus a further three years.
Further details are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
Principal Risks The Committee introduced a standing discussion item in relation to monitoring and reviewing the Groups principal business risks, challenging management on their appropriateness and how they were to be mitigated, details of which can be found on pages 28 and 29.
A key risk that the Committee discussed was the financial impact of Brexit and how the Group would mitigate its effects.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Committee has a further standing discussion item in relation to monitoring and reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management systems, with a continuous control testing and reporting programme throughout the organisation.
Going Concern Whilst a matter for the whole Board see page 38, the Committee reviews the Groups financial forecasts, debt maturity forecasts and associated sensitivity analysis.
With supporting reviews from the external auditor, and a recommendation from management, the Committee remains of the view that the going concern risk was low.
However given the concerns around Brexit, this would continue to be monitored by the Committee.
Internal Audit Following its annual review, the Committee recommended to the Board not to establish an internal audit function, due to the existence of current controls and review systems in place and as the Company was neither of sufficient size nor complexity to warrant it.
This line of reasoning was consistent with other property companies of a similar size.
The Committee will continue to review this assumption annually following the Groups inclusion in the FTSE 350.
In order to seek assurance that internal controls are rigorously tested, management have set up a rolling programme to review and test the principal areas of risk, with the results reported to the Committee and subsequently reviewed by the Board.
This ongoing review has not highlighted any matters of concern.
Non-Audit Fees The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditor, so as to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee has reviewed its existing policy so as to ensure it complies with the EU Audit Regulations.
The revised policy categorises non-audit services as either: excluded as defined by the EU Audit Regulations : or permitted, without approval from the Committee, but subject to approval by the Chief Financial Officer of up to 10% of the annual aggregate Group audit fee: or permitted with approval from the Committee.
The non-audit services provided by the Companys auditor during the year were 23,738 2015: 95,500 All such fees were approved by the Audit Committee or Chief Financial Officer in accordance with the policy.
As set out above, the Committee considers that it has complied with the provision of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Anti-Bribery and Whistleblowing The Company has implemented an anti-bribery policy and provided training for all staff.
An additional annual compliance check is undertaken for all staff.
The Committee reviewed as being appropriate the Whistleblowing Policy, under which employees may report suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity, modern slavery or other malpractice.
No reports of any such matters were received during the year.
On behalf of the Board Malcolm Cooper Chairman Audit Committee 8 March 2017 72
