DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2016 The Directors present their annual report and the audited John Whiteley, aged 58, joined the Company in 2009 as Chief financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
He has over 25 years experience in the real estate sector: he was previously Finance Officer at Doughty The Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and Corporate Hanson & Co Real Estate, and for ten years was Finance Director Governance Report form part of this report and should be read of Great Portland Estates plc, a company listed on the London in conjunction with it.
He spent nine years with Ernst & Young, after qualifying as an accountant with Spicer & Pegler.
He is a member REVIEW OF BUSINESS of the Finance Committee of the British Property Federation and The Group income statement for the year is set out on a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Sten Mortstedt, aged 77, was Executive Chairman of the Company The Group objective, business model, strategy and KPIs since its incorporation until 8 March 2016 when he stepped down are set out on pages 4 and 5. as Chairman but remained an Executive Director.
He is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He began his career in Important events affecting the Company are set out on 1962 with Svenska Handelsbanken in Stockholm and within three pages 8 to 27. years had formed a property investment partnership.
In 1968 he The principal risks and uncertainties are set out on was appointed Managing Director of the Mortstedt family property pages 28 and 29. company, Citadellet AB, which was floated on the Stock Exchange The use of financial instruments are set out on page 24, in Stockholm in 1981.
The company was sold in 1985 for a price and in note 23 to the Group financial statements.
five times higher than the introduction price and was at that time the largest property deal recorded in Scandinavia.
Since 1977 he The risk management objectives are also detailed in has been involved in establishing and running property interests note 23 to the Group financial statements.
in the UK, Sweden and France.
He established CLS in 1987, and took the Company to a listing on the main market of the London DIRECTORS Stock Exchange in 1994.
Changes to Board composition during 2016 and subsequently In addition to his focus on property, he has been commercially are set out on page 43. active in a number of other investment areas.
He has seen a Directors remuneration and interest in shares is set out on number of the companies in which he has invested through to pages 48 to 69. successful stock exchange listings or trade sales.
Related party transactions are set out in note 33 to the Group He runs his global interests from his residence in Switzerland.
Non-Executive Directors Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors at 31 December 2016 are set out below.
Anna Seeley, aged 45, was appointed Non-Executive Vice Chairman on 8 March 2016 having rejoined the Board on 11 May 2015.
She is Executive Directors also a member of the Nominations Committee.
She is a qualified Chartered Surveyor and has worked in the property industry for Henry Klotz, aged 72, was appointed Executive Chairman in over 20 years.
She has held various positions within the property March 2016, having previously been Executive Vice Chairman from departments of General Electric and the BT Group and, from 2001 January 2011, and Chief Executive Officer from May 2008.
He to 2003, was the Companys Group Property Director and Board joined the Group in 1999 with responsibility for the management member.
For the last 8 years she has been a Director of Skansen of the Swedish operation, and was involved in the setting up of the Group Limited, a specialist office fit-out and refurbishment German division and sourcing new business opportunities for the company.
She holds a degree in property valuation and finance Group.
He is a qualified engineer and economist.
from City University and is the daughter of Sten Mortstedt.
On behalf of CLS he is Non-Executive Chairman of Catena AB, a Malcolm Cooper, aged 57, joined the Board in 2007 and is the Nordic real estate company quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm, and in Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee which CLS holds an interest in 11.2% of the issued share capital.
and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Project Fredrik Widlund, aged 49, is the Chief Executive Officer and Director, Gas Distribution Sales at National Grid plc where he joined the Company in November 2014.
His experience includes has worked for various predecessor companies since 1991. senior roles in business leadership, property and finance and Previously he worked for Andersen Consulting.
He has a first prior to joining CLS he worked for 15 years at GE Capital class degree in pure mathematics from Warwick University, including two years as Finance Director and four years as is a qualified accountant and is a member of the Association Managing Director of GE Capital Real Estate UK, Regional CEO of Corporate Treasurers.
He is also a Non-Executive Director for GEs European leasing businesses and finally as Managing of Morgan Sindall plc.
Director and Global Commercial Leader at its trade finance Joseph Crawley, aged 57, joined the Board in 2008.
He is business, GE Capital International.
Prior to his career with GE, Managing Director of Neat Developments Limited, a property he worked for Shell in London and Sweden.
Fredrik has a degree investment and development company active in London and in Economics from the University of Stockholm.
south-east England, and has over 25 years experience of the central London property market.
He was previously employed by CLS for a number of years and was involved in the development of the Spring Gardens site.
