CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE WAY WE MANAGE OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Board has overall responsibility for corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance.
We are committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance which best fit the Group.
Your Board recognises that through an effective structure of systems and controls which defines authority and accountability throughout the Group, risks are appropriately managed and controlled whilst still promoting entrepreneurial behaviour and ensuring a successful and innovative business.
This, we believe, has been the key to our long-term success.
Corporate Governance is a key driver to the success of a listed company, but no two businesses are the same and no two boards are the same.
For example, the UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Chairman of a listed company should not hold executive powers, and be independent upon appointment.
Due to my previous Executive roles and my current role as Executive Chairman, we do not comply with the Code.
However, your Board believes that it is appropriate to have an Executive Chairman because I have a valuable and in-depth knowledge of the business together with substantial experience of the European property industry.
Nevertheless, there are various independence safeguards in place to ensure proper processes and controls are followed.
These include the independent judgement of our Non-Executive Directors in all Board decisions, a schedule of matters reserved for the Board where, for example, all property transactions above 5 million must be approved by the Board, robust internal controls and a clear division of responsibilities between myself and our CEO.
Your Board believes that, with the help of my executive team, we focus on ensuring the Group succeeds in its business strategy whilst ensuring good governance.
During the year, we have implemented a number of processes which underline our governance commitment whilst recognising the needs of the business and its stakeholders.
For example we have established a Nominations Committee, consisting of two independent Non-Executive Directors, our Founding Shareholder, Sten Mortstedt, and the Non-Executive Vice Chairman.
Whilst we understand that this is not fully compliant with the Codes recommendation we believe that this represents our ownership structure.
In order to assist in meeting our obligations in relation to the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulations, we have established a Disclosure Committee consisting of our Executive Directors, taking advice from a number of corporate advisers.
Finally, we wanted to ensure that we understood the needs and concerns of our key assets our employees and undertook a staff satisfaction survey, taking into account all areas of working life.
It showed us that 86% of our employees are proud to work for CLS.
Nevertheless, we take on board the feedback we received and are implementing changes to embrace a work life balance.
It continues to be my belief that an effective Board should include members who have a detailed knowledge of the Companys business and its relationships, so that there can be effective challenge and searching questions asked of the Executive Directors.
We recognise that the composition of our Board is not aligned to the Codes requirement in this regard.
However, from a governance perspective, I consider the balance between non-executives and independent non-executives to have been one of our key strengths and is underlined by the Groups performance since listing in 1994.
As in previous years, I thank our long-term shareholders for sharing this view.
Henry Klotz Executive Chairman COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE The Board fully supports the principles of good governance as set out in the Code, which is publicly available on the FRCs website The principal corporate governance rules which applied to the www.
The Company became a constituent of the FTSE Company in the year under review were those set out in the UK 350 index on 22 December 2014.
Save as identified and explained Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting below, the Board considers that throughout 2016 it complied with Council FRC in April 2016 the Code, the UK Financial the Main Principles and the supporting principles as set out in Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules and the FCAs Disclosure Section 1 of the Code.
40 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE BOARD HENRY KLOTZ EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 3 other Executive Directors 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors 4 other Non-Executive Directors Ensuring company growth and shareholder value AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 1 Executive Director Monitors the arrangements for Develops the Companys policies 1 Non-Executive Director corporate reporting, risk management on executive remuneration and sets and internal controls Monitors and evaluates the the remuneration packages Boards skills and experience Maintains a direct relationship of individual Executive Directors to ensure full Board discussion with the external auditor EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Reviews the daily running Monitors inside information of the Groups business and close periods ASSET MANAGEMENT HEALTH & SAFETY INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEES COMMITTEE Analyses financial investment opportunities Reviews the Groups property Reviews and moderates the Groups policy and reviews investment portfolios investments in each country and best practices for Health and Safety LEADERSHIP The Board, its composition and responsibilities are set out in a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decisions.
Matters reserved for Board decisions include identifying strategic long-term objectives, approving the annual Group budget, and approving substantial property transactions and investment decisions over 5 million.
The implementation of Board decisions and the day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to the Executive Directors.
EXECUTIVE HENRY KLOTZ Proposing the overall strategy of the Group and ensuring CHAIRMAN the effective running of the Board NON-EXECUTIVE ANNA SEELEY Supporting the Executive Chairman with developing Group strategy VICE CHAIRMAN and managing the effective running of the Board CHIEF EXECUTIVE FREDRIK WIDLUND Implementing Group strategy and the day-to-day running of the Group OFFICER CHIEF FINANCIAL JOHN WHITELEY Implementing Group strategy in relation to and ensuring compliance OFFICER with all financial matters EXECUTIVE STEN MORTSTEDT Supporting the Executive Chairman with proposing the overall Group strategy DIRECTOR SENIOR MALCOLM COOPER Providing another channel of communication for shareholders who do not wish to INDEPENDENT approach the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman or Chief Executive Officer DIRECTOR Leads the Non-Executive Directors, and provides feedback to the Executive Chairman on his performance NON-EXECUTIVE JOSEPH CRAWLEY Providing independent oversight, objectively challenging the Executive Directors DIRECTORS ELIZABETH EDWARDS in Board discussions and decision-making CHRISTOPHER JARVIS THOMAS LUNDQVIST BENGT MORTSTEDT PHILIP MORTSTEDT ANNA SEELEY LENNART STEN Determined by the Board to be Independent in accordance with Code provision B.
Resigned on 7 March 2017 With effect from 8 March 2016 Appointed 7 March 2017 41 s i s a b y l h t n o m a n o d e M r o o t n i i n t o o r M e d o n a q u a r t M e r l y a b a s n i s k a s g CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD IN 2016 March May August November Key Agenda items Approval of the Annual Nominations Committee Approval of the Half-Yearly Approval of 2017 Budget and Report and Accounts 2015, established Financial Report and Forecasts for 2018 to 2020 April tender offer and notice September tender offer of AGM Approval of going concern Approval of going concern Review of Internal Controls and viability statements statement and Risk Management Report on Vauxhall Square Establishment of a development and strategy Disclosure Committee Results on the Staff Satisfaction Survey Reports from: Group policies update Report from the Audit Reports from: Committee on the Audit Committee on Non-Executive Directors Half-Yearly Financial Report Annual Report and Committee providing and feedback from auditors feedback from auditors feedback on Board Evaluation Remuneration Committee Audit Committee on the on bonus plan audit planning process and audit matters Keeping the Board updated through presentations UK Valuers UK valuers French valuers Group Treasurer on Vauxhall Square Valuers German valuers current borrowing market Report on impact of Brexit and trends Standing Agenda Item s Executive Reports covering markets, investments, portfolio developments, financing and operational matters Corporate Governance, including monitoring of principal risks and uncertainties, internal controls and risk management, health and safety and investor relations Performance Monitoring Meetings The attendance of Directors at Board meetings during the year is set out below: Meeting Attendance during the year Number of Meetings Divisional Asset Cash Flows Henry Klotz 4 4 Management Anna Seeley 4 4 Fredrik Widlund 4 4 PERFORMANCE John Whiteley 4 4 MONITORING Financial Sten Mortstedt 3 4 Forecasts Liquid Malcolm Cooper 4 4 Resources Joseph Crawley 4 4 Budgets Elizabeth Edwards 4 4 Christopher Jarvis 4 4 Thomas Lundqvist 3 4 Philip Mortstedt 4 4 Lennart Sten 4 4 Conflicts of Interest The Companys Articles of Association contain procedures to deal In addition to attending Board meetings, senior management with Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board considers that meet regularly to discuss management issues relating to the these have operated effectively during the year.
Group both formally and informally.
42 i e R m s i e s a b n y l t k e e w a n o d e r o t i n o M Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Insurance provision B.
However, the Board considers that having a mix of Non-Executive Directors who are either independent The Company has arranged insurance cover for its Directors and as defined by the Code, or have an in-depth knowledge of the officers, as set out in the Directors Report on page 38.
Company, provides better oversight and governance than having predominantly independent Non-Executive Directors.
Division of Responsibilities In accordance with provision B.
2.3, the Board undertook a The responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, who is rigorous review as to whether it considered Malcolm Cooper and responsible for the overall strategy of the Group, the NonChristopher Jarvis to be independent, having served on the Board Executive Vice Chairman who supports the Executive Chairman, for more than six years.
Based on Mr Coopers current full time and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for role with National Grid plc, and Mr Jarviss full time role with implementing the strategy and for the day-to-day running of the Jarvis and Partners, together with the amount of time dedicated Group, are specifically divided.
A written statement of the division to their roles as a Non-Executive Director and their contributions of these responsibilities is reviewed and approved by the Board to the Board in discussions generally, the Board were satisfied each year.
that they maintained the necessary levels of independence in The Company does not comply with provision A.
3.1 of the Code, addition to the Codes independence criteria.
as the Executive Chairman was not independent on appointment.
Mr Cooper has served on the Board for more than nine years.
There have been no significant changes to the commitments of In light of provision B.
1.1, and for the reasons set out above, the the Executive Chairman during the year.
From 1 January 2016, Board determined that he continued to remain independent.
the Executive Vice Chairman carried out his responsibilities on a part-time basis.
On 8 March 2016 the role of Executive Vice Directors Independence Chairman reverted to a non-executive role and a revised statement was subsequently approved.
Non-Executive Independent Executive Non-Executive Directors 34% 33% A formal meeting of the Non-Executives took place during the year, without the Executive Directors or the Chairman present, and at which a thorough review of the performance of the Non-Executive Executive Chairman took place.
Several meetings with the NonNon-Independent Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman took place during 33% the year to discuss, amongst other things, the performance of the Groups strategy, the performance of the other Executive Directors and the performance of the Board as a whole.
As highlighted by this years board evaluation, the Board was Appointments to the Board satisfied with the experience, expertise and performance of each On 8 March 2016, Mr Sten Mortstedt stepped down as Executive Board member: they continue to add significant value to the Chairman but remained an Executive Director and was replaced operation of the Company through their combined knowledge and by Mr Klotz.
The role of Executive Vice Chairman reverted to a experience, and exercise objectivity in decision-making and non-executive role, to which Ms Seeley was appointed.
proper control of the Companys business.
On 7 March 2017, Mr Bengt Mortstedt, a co-founder shareholder EFFECTIVENESS and holder of 6.89% of the shares in the Company, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director, and Mr Philip Mortstedt Tenure of the Board left the Board.
9 Years 0 3 Years Nominations Committee 3 5 As recommended by the Code, in May 2016 the Board established a Nominations Committee to lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
Its members were Sten Mortstedt, Committee Chairman, 6 9 Years Anna Seeley, Elizabeth Edwards and Lennart Sten.
Whilst the 4 Nominations Committee was not fully compliant with provision B.
2.1, its composition was deemed appropriate as it reflected the Companys shareholder base and also provided a balanced independent perspective.
The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Following the annual board evaluation in November, and having Committees, the terms of reference for which can be obtained had regard to stakeholder feedback, the Committee received the from the Company Secretary or our website.
views of the Board in relation to succession planning, and its balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
Since the year end Independence the Nominations Committee met to consider the appointment Guidance to the Code recommends that for FTSE 350 companies of Mr Bengt Mortstedt and the departure of Mr Philip Mortstedt.
at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise The Committee believed that Bengt Mortstedt would bring a independent Non-Executive Directors.
broad experience of the property industry and knowledge of the Company which would enhance the composition and balance At the year end, the Board comprised four Executive Directors, four of the Board.
independent Non-Executive Directors and four other Non-Executive Directors.
The Company was not compliant, therefore, with 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Diversity Information, Support and Development In accordance with the Companys policy on diversity, it will continue Board members are sent Board packs in advance of each Board to make changes to its composition irrespective of gender or any and Committee meeting, and senior executives attend Board other form of discrimination and to appoint the best candidate meetings to present and discuss their areas of speciality.
It, therefore, considers that setting measurable making commercial assessments the Directors review detailed objectives based on diversity would not be in the best interests plans including financial viability reports which, amongst other of the Group.
things, detail the return on capital, the return on cash and the likely impact on the income statement, cash flows and gearing.
Board Gender Diversity Directors are able to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
They are given appropriate training and assistance on Female appointment to the Board and later, if requested.
17% The Company offers all Directors the opportunity to update their skills and knowledge, and familiarity with the Company, in order to fulfil their role on the Board.
In addition, meetings with senior Male managers within the Company have been arranged to further 83% familiarise Non-Executive Directors with the Company.
As part of every new Board members induction, we encourage them to meet with the Head of Property in each of the UK, France and Germany so as to understand the portfolio.
Board members also attended site visits to properties.
Board Evaluation In November, the Board undertook its annual performance Re-election evaluation survey led by the Senior Independent Director, with Under the Articles of Association, which can be amended by a assistance from the Company Secretary.
The evaluation was special resolution of the shareholders, the Board has the power based on a questionnaire which addressed three key areas: to appoint Directors and, where notice is given signed by all the membership of the Board, Board performance and Board other Directors, to remove a Director from office.
The questionnaire enabled the Directors to score performance in each of these areas and also provided an All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity to raise any other issues.
The confidential responses Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In accordance were compiled into a non-attributable report by the Senior with the Codes requirements for FTSE 350 companies, all Independent Director and provided to the Executive Chairman.
directors must seek re-election by shareholders annually.
Accordingly, all Directors will be seeking election or re-election Based on the results, the Directors considered that the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Their details are and its committees were working effectively and that there was a contained in the Directors Report on pages 36 and 37. good mix of personalities, skills and experience.
The Board would keep under review the need for further development experience.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive It recognised that the size of the Board, and balance of Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which provides independence amongst its non-executives, should be considered for their removal in certain circumstances, including under when making any new appointments.
The Directors were pleased s168 Companies Act 2006.
Their letters of appointment also set with the way in which the Executive Chairman led the Board and out what is expected of them and the time expected for them to had concluded critical strategic decisions.
Since the previous meet their commitment.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to evaluation, the Board had improved interaction with those below serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite them executive level, and would continue to do more.
to serve for an additional period, subject to a rigorous review.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can The key themes arising from this years evaluation, which will be obtained on request to the Company Secretary and will be form an action plan for 2017, were: to continue to review available for inspection 15 minutes before, and during, the AGM.
succession planning in respect of employees below Board level: to continue to improve the Boards interaction with all employees: ACCOUNTABILITY to continue to hold meetings with only the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman present: and to receive The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and additional information on employee issues.
prospects, which are explained in this Annual Report.
6.2 of the Code, requiring an externally facilitated evaluation for FTSE 350 companies every The Audit Committee three years under which the Company would not require an The Board has established an Audit Committee to monitor the externally facilitated evaluation until December 2017. formal and transparent arrangements for its corporate reporting and its risk management and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys Auditor.
Full details of the Committees work are given in the Audit Committee's Report on page 70 44 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Risk Management and Internal Control Risks The Company has internal control and risk management systems In line with the most recent guidance on risk and internal controls in place for its financial reporting process and the preparation of from the FRC, the risks which the Group faces are reviewed and the Group accounts.
It considers these systems appropriate for monitored in Board and executive meetings on an ongoing basis the size, diversity and complexity of the Groups operations, and throughout the financial year.
they are monitored, reviewed and recommended by the Audit Each business area operates a process to ensure that key risks are Committee in the first instance, and then approved by the Board identified, evaluated, managed and reviewed appropriately.
This as a whole on an annual basis.
process is also applied at Board level to major business decisions It is the Companys aim to manage risk and to control its business such as property acquisitions and disposals, and significant and financial affairs economically, efficiently and effectively so strategy implementations.
Furthermore, a monthly property activity as to be able to exploit profitable business opportunities in a portfolio update is circulated to the Board which identifies key disciplined way, avoid or mitigate risks that can cause loss, business risks, developments and opportunities.
Additional risk reputational damage or business failure, and enhance resilience management processes, which include health and safety and to external events.
The Board acknowledges that the Directors sustainability risk management, are employed within the are responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and businesses and updates are reported to the Board at each meeting.
risk management and has established procedures which are Whilst there were no areas of weakness or failings identified by designed to provide reasonable assurance against material the Audit Committee and reported to the Board during their misstatement or loss.
These procedures have operated for the review of the Groups risk management and internal controls, entire financial year and up to the date of signing the Annual management has set up a rolling programme to review and test Report and Accounts.
the principal areas of internal control risks throughout the Group.
The Directors recognise that such systems can only provide a The results are reported to the Audit Committee and reviewed by reasonable and not absolute assurance that there has been no the Board during the year.
The Board regularly reviews the In accordance with provision C. 2.1, and as supported above, the management structure, HR policies and reward systems so as Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment to ensure that management is aligned to the Groups values and of the principal risks facing the Group, including those which supports the risk management and internal control systems.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency The key elements of the process by which the systems of internal or liquidity.
The Groups principal risks and uncertainties, the control and risk management are monitored are set out below.
areas which they impact and how they are mitigated are described on pages 28 and 29.
Internal Controls Viability Statement The Company has an established framework for internal controls, which is regularly reviewed and monitored by the executive In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Board has management and the Audit Committee, who update the Board assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than on its effectiveness during the year.
the twelve months that has in practice been the focus of the Going Concern statement.
The Board is responsible for the Companys overall strategy, for approving budgets and major investment decisions, and for The Board concluded that the Viability Statement should determining the financial structure of the Group.
correspond with the way in which the Group models its forecasts.
The Group produces a budget for the current year and forecasts The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its over a further three years reflecting the Groups business model, duties regarding the Groups financial reports and provides a strategy and risk appetite.
direct link between the Board and the Companys Auditor through regular meetings.
The Board has requested that the Audit The forecasts provide a comprehensive view of the Groups entire Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and operation, covering: Accounts and advises it on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, cash flows balanced and understandable and provides the information financial resources necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and long-term funding performance, business model and strategy.
Following its 2016 capital expenditure commitments review, it recommended the same to the Board.
administration costs There is an established organisational structure which has clearly Cash flow forecasts are updated weekly and circulated to the defined lines of reporting and responsibility.
The budget and three year forecasts are set in November place control processes in relation to all aspects of its financial and updated in May and August to take into account foreign dealings, such as the authorisation of banking transactions, exchange movements, changes to the portfolio, interest rate capital expenditure and treasury investment decisions.
expectations and development cost assumptions and the changes The Group has a comprehensive system for budgeting and are reviewed by the Board.
planning whereby quarterly and annual budgets are prepared, As explained in the Audit Committee report, the forecasts are also monitored and reported to the Board at Board meetings.
stress-tested to reflect our principal risks, ensuring the Group Three-yearly rolling cash flow forecasts are updated and distributed has sufficient resources in severe cases, such as a steep property to the Executive Directors on a weekly basis to ensure the Group downturn, the loss of key tenants and significant rises in the costs has sufficient cash resources for the short and medium term.
Set out on pages 2 to 27 is the Strategic Report, describing the As a result, the Directors can confirm that they have a reasonable Groups operations and the strategy which it employs to maximise expectation that the Company will be able to continue in returns and minimise risks.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION MAJOR INTERESTS IN THE COMPANYS SHARES Other than Mr Sten Mortstedts 50.99% interest referred to in the The Remuneration Committee Directors Remuneration Report on page 65, as at 8 March 2017 The Board has a Remuneration Committee which develops the the Company has been notified of the following interests above Companys policies on executive remuneration and sets the 3% in the Companys issued share capital: remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors.
of shares % Full details of the Committees work FIL Limited 3,557,331 8.73% are given in the Remuneration Report on page Bengt Mortstedt 2,807,255 6.89% F&C Asset Management plc 2,124,509 5.21% 48 Schroder Investment Management Limited 1,796,075 4.40% RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and There are no shareholders who carry special rights with regard private investors.
The Boards primary contact with institutional to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting shareholders is through the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief rights.
The Company knows of no agreements between holders Financial Officer, along with the Head of Group Property, who of securities which would result in restrictions on the transfer of have regular meetings with institutional shareholders.
They securities or on voting rights.
also undertake analyst presentations following the Companys half-yearly and annual financial results.
They are supported by a RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT financial relations adviser and two corporate brokers, all of whom In April 2016, the Company was informed that Sten Mortstedt are in regular contact with institutional and retail shareholders, had undertaken a reorganisation of certain companies of which and with analysts.
A report of feedback from each institutional he was the sole direct and beneficial owner Mr Mortstedt investor meeting is prepared by the broker who organised it, transferred all of his shareholdings to Creative Value Investment and a report of unattributed feedback from analysts on analyst Group Limited CVIG, which at the time of such transfer was presentations is prepared by the financial relations advisor.
directly held and beneficially owned by him the Transaction.
All such reports and coverage of the Company by analysts are Immediately following the Transaction, Mr Mortstedt settled his circulated to the Board.
Consequently, all Directors develop entire shareholding in CVIG into The Sten and Karin Mortstedt an understanding of the views of institutional shareholders Family & Charity Trust, in which Mr Mortstedt has a beneficial and commentators.
Analyst presentations following the announcement of half-yearly In order to continue compliance with the Listing Rule provision and annual financial results are webcast and available on the 9.2.
2AR, the relationship agreement between the Company and Companys website.
Mr Mortstedt was terminated and a new relationship agreement The Group issues its annual financial report to each of its was entered into with CVIG, as controlling shareholder.
In accordance with the UK company disclosure As at 31 December 2016, CVIG held 50.99% of the Companys regulations the Group does not distribute its half-yearly financial shares in issue, and was therefore seen as a controlling report to shareholders but makes it available on its website.
shareholder under the Listing Rules.
Copies are available on request.
The relationship agreement shall only be terminated in the event All financial reports and press releases are also included on the that CVIG ceases to be a controlling shareholder, or if the Groups website at www.
Company ceases to be admitted to listing on the premium All shareholders have at least 20 working days notice of the segment of the Official List.
Annual General Meeting at which all Directors who are available Throughout the period under review, the Company has complied to attend are introduced and are available for questions.
All with the mandatory independence provisions and procurement shareholders are welcome to attend the Companys Annual obligations in the relationship agreement, and as far as the General Meeting and to arrange individual meetings by Company is aware, Mr Mortstedt and, since 28 April 2016, CVIG appointment.
The views received at such meetings are fed back has also complied.
Proxy Voting The proxy forms for the Annual General Meeting and General Meetings which were held in 2016 included a vote withheld box.
Details of the proxies lodged for these meetings were announced to the London Stock Exchange and are on the Companys website at www.
Shareholders may also choose to register their vote by electronic proxy on the Companys website.
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Company will comply with the Listing Rules in respect of the voting requirements for the re-election of independent Directors where a Company has a controlling shareholder.
46 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys A change of control of the Company may cause a number of transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time agreements to which the Company or its active subsidiaries the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure is party, such as commercial trading contracts, banking that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. arrangements, property leases and licence agreements, to alter They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the or terminate or provisions in those agreements to take effect.
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the In the context of the Group as a whole, only the banking prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
arrangements are considered to be significant.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that of the corporate and financial information included on the occur because of a change of control.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may JOINT VENTURE AND ASSOCIATES differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This Corporate Governance report applies to the Company and Responsibility statement its subsidiaries.
It does not include associates.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or and regulations.
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors the strategic report includes a fair review of the development are required to prepare the Group financial statements in and performance of the business and the position of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal IAS Regulation, and have elected to prepare the parent company risks and uncertainties that they face: and financial statements in accordance with FRS101 of United the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under information necessary for shareholders to assess the company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless Companys position and performance, business model they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state and strategy.
of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for This statement of responsibilities was approved by the Board that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the On behalf of the Board Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: David Fuller BA FCIS Company Secretary make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 8 March 2017 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
