Nomination Committee Report The composition and strength of the Board is under review, alongside a review of succession plans in the business Dear Shareholder The Committee has had a busy 2016.
In January 2016, the Board announced that our then CFO, Simon Nicholls, would be moving on to perform the role of CFO for Wolseley plc, a FTSE50 company and a recruitment process started to replace him.
In June 2016, David Mellors was announced as the new CFO, to join the Board.
David was CFO of QinetiQ Group plc, the FTSE250 science and engineering company that operates primarily in the defence, security and aerospace markets.
During his time at QinetiQ he played a leading role in the successful transformation of the group, strengthening their balance sheet and re-focusing the portfolio driving improved performance and positioning the group for growth.
His background positions him well to face the challenges which we knew we were facing.
David took up his new role on 1 January 2017 and immediately commenced a balance sheet and major contracts review.
Mark Ronald stepped down from the Board in April 2016 after serving three, three year terms.
During August 2016, the Board announced the appointment of David Lockwood as CEO, following the stepping down of Bob Murphy to pursue other opportunities.
David was CEO of Laird plc, the FTSE250 technology company providing products and solutions that protect electronics from electromagnetic interference and heat and which enable connectivity in mission-critical wireless applications.
During his time at Laird, David built the company into a focused enterprise connectivity company with leading positions in the connected transport and consumer device markets, delivering sustained organic growth.
He also had a strong background in the defence industry.
David officially commenced in role on 14 December 2016 and is already putting his experience into play for us.
Then in November 2016, John Devaney informed the Cobham Board that he would be standing down as Chairman and Board member of Cobham plc with effect from 31 December 2016.
Following a process led by the Nomination Committee, I took over as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2017, having served as Cobhams Senior Independent Director and member of the Remuneration Committee until that point.
Jonathan Flint took on the role The Committee has of Senior Independent Director, also on 1 January 2017. been very involved in All new appointments were made with input from the Nomination Committee members, who met with the candidates before formal appointment.
the recruitment process for the two Executive The Committee and the Board feel the Company has sufficient breadth and depth in the new Executive Directors to move the Company forward and will be Directors and the considering, through 2017, whether to strengthen Board membership further.
Chairman during 2016, Role and focus The Nomination Committees main duties are to: but 2017 needs to Review the structure, size and composition of the Board: and Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
focus on the Board Key events for 2016 and succession plans Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board: Reviewed Committee structure and membership on Mark Ronalds departure in the business from the Board: Oversight of the search for the new CFO: Oversight of the search for the new CEO: and Conducted a formal process and recommended the appointment of myself as Chairman on John Devaneys departure from the Board.
com Cobham plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Skills and experience Independence Years with Cobham Skills and Experience UK Corporate Governance Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings HR Michael Wareing 6 David Lockwood 0 David Mellors 0 Jonathan Flint 3 Michael Hagee 8 Birgit Nrgaard 3 Alan Semple 2 Alison Wood 5 All of the Directors, Executive and Non-executive, have leadership, strategy and risk experience.
Priorities for 2017 As mentioned at page 50, site visits are considered critical to ensure that the Review the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure Directors remain close to the business of the Group.
competencies remain aligned with the strategic plan and is appropriately balanced: Diversity and inclusion Oversight of succession planning exercise for the key roles across the The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity when considering the Group: and composition of the Board.
In recruiting for Board roles, targets are generally Consider the role of this Committee and how it can be strengthened and set around ensuring a proportion of female and ethnically diverse applicants used more productively.
are included in the candidate pool for Non-executive Director positions.
The representation of women on the Board is currently 25%.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which were reviewed during the year, are available on Cobhams website or on application to the Company Secretary.
Please refer to page 41 for details of diversity and inclusion initiatives within the business.
Membership and attendance One formal Committee meeting was held during the year, attended as follows: Succession planning for Board members senior management Succession planning takes place on a regular basis to ensure that the Group is John Devaney Chair managed by executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge.
The Board has a role to play in overseeing the development of management Jonathan Flint resources in the Group.
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality in management, and robust processes are in place to help them in this task.
Michael Hagee The succession plan needs to be replenished and the process reviewed as the 1 Birgit Nrgaard number of high performing individuals identified in role do not correlate with 1 the performance of the business.
There are some good people within the Group Mark Ronald and some good technology platform positions.
Despite the results for the year, Alan Semple there is still pride in the Cobham business, and we need to build on this.
Michael Wareing Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board, and I have announced Alison Wood a Board refresh over a rolling two year period.
The Nomination Committee Unable to attend Attended actively manages Non-executive Director succession having regard to anticipated 1 Sent apologies due to other business commitments.
retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates focused searches for Non-executive Directors as positions are required.
There were a series of actions taken by this Committee outside of the formal scheduled meetings, and members were extensively involved in each of the Michael above senior leadership changes.
Hagee Michael Wareing Directors professional development Alison On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme Wood in the course of which they receive information about: Jonathan Flint The operations and activities of the Group: Birgit The role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision: Nrgaard The Groups corporate governance practices and procedures: Alan Semple Their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed public limited company: and 2007 2012 2015 2017 2022 2027 Specific duties as a member of one of the Board committees.
1st term 2nd term 3rd term This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and presentations The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive Directors in by, members of the senior management team.
Both David Lockwood and David terms of length of service and current term is shown diagrammatically above.
Mellors followed this model in undertaking their induction towards the end of 2016.
Development for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by means of internal briefing from senior management or advisers and external courses.
In addition, Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment Michael Wareing is updated through the provision of information by the Groups advisers and by Nomination Committee Chair means of regular updates from the Company Secretary and the legal team.
com Cobham plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
