Audit Committee Report Increased analysis of the Groups balance sheet and internal control systems Dear Shareholder 2016 was a very challenging year for Cobham overall, with performance issues in a number of areas contributing to the Groups overall disappointing results.
Cash generation was poor and despite the rights issue in June 2016, debt increased to levels outside the Boards target range.
These matters, which are covered in some detail elsewhere in this report, had a significant impact on the Committee throughout the year, and will continue to do so into 2017.
Key issues for 2016 The Audit Committee continued its focus on the Groups financial reporting, risk management and internal control systems.
With the knowledge that the incumbent Group CFO was leaving the business, we worked with the Board on appointing his replacement.
We met with members of the broader finance team on specific issues, and throughout the year maintained our analysis of the Groups long term development programmes.
Given the issues that had arisen in 2016, management performed a rigorous review of the balance sheet, including carrying values of past acquisitions, given the disappointing performance during the year.
Trading was behind the Boards expectations for the first quarter of 2016, as noted in the Trading Update of April 2016.
One reason for this was the financial and operational controls that had emerged in the Wireless business unit that resulted in a one off charge of 9m.
The Audit Committee was presented with a detailed assessment of the issues that had emerged, including the remedial actions required to stabilise the Wireless control environment.
Lessons learned from these issues were extensively considered by the Audit Committee and included a number of organisational changes, an internal project to improve controls within the business unit and increased level of corporate oversight and support.
This also reinforced the need to implement an updated Group Finance Manual and the Minimum Standards of Financial Control Framework across the Group.
In addition to the issues in the Wireless business, in April 2016 the Group also reported that headwinds in Aviation Services combined with increased costs in Advanced Electronic Solutions had adversely affected first quarter profitability.
The impact of this was that there was an expectation that leverage could be close to the net debt EBITDA covenant ratio of 3.5x at June 2016 and as a result Key focus areas for the Board announced a rights issue.
Consequently, the Audit Committees focus in the second quarter included a review of the first quarter performance included the Audit Committee in the rights issue documentation.
The Audit Committee continued monitoring the progress of issues in Wireless, considered financial information relating to have been the Groups major development programmes, including updates from management on the financial control status of customer discussions and risk exposures in relation to these programmes.
environment, the Into the second half, Group performance remained challenging with forecasts not being met in a number of businesses, most notably the SATCOM, Wireless balance sheet review, and Integrated Electronic Solutions business units and increased risk relating to the KC-46 programme, where commercial circumstances changed with our and performance customer.
These matters were noted in the Trading Update in October 2016.
This guided trading profit down, and highlighted that discussions were taking of the long term place with our customer on KC-46 related commercial terms for the conformity and qualification phases of the contract.
The Audit Committee requested development ongoing updates on longterm, major development programmes, received external input on certain aspects, and into early 2017 performed a separate programmes review on the status of risk and costs to complete on KC-46.
In addition, increased scope and enhanced reporting was agreed with PwC for the planned 2016 year-end external audit.
com Cobham plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The balance sheet review led by the new CFO identified a range of issues related Priorities for 2017 to 2016 performance that had not been identified in our normal management 2017 will be a period of transition for Cobham, with our new CEO and CFO reporting.
These are described in some detail on page 29.
The Committee becoming established in their roles.
We will work to assist them and to engaged with management and PwC throughout the balance sheet review support their initiatives to improve the risk management systems and control process and met to consider the circumstances that had led to the adjustments, environment where required.
It is important that the Group learn the lessons their quantum, disclosure, and judgements applied.
from Cobhams recent under-performance, and from the adjustments identified as part of the year-end balance sheet review.
The Audit Committee will focus In addition, the Audit Committee: on remediation of control issues identified and on actioning the standards of Reviewed financial statements and associated reports throughout the year: control we expect across the Group.
Reviewed managements assessment of the potential impact of adopting new accounting standards, specifically revenue recognition and leasing: At the 2017 AGM, I and the fellow members of the Committee will be available Reviewed all matters relating to External Audit including audit scope, to respond to any questions shareholders may wish to raise on this report or the independence, objectivity and effectiveness, and requested an enhanced Committees activities.
level of reporting to the Committee: Reviewed the Non-audit Policy, and the transition of certain non-audit services from the external auditor, with the majority of tax and HR services transferring to other providers during the year: Reviewed reports from management on key governance, risk and compliance activities including progress in implementing the Minimum Standards of Financial Control: Alan Semple Increased our analysis of existing IT controls including cyber security Audit Committee Chair and disaster recovery, and the requirement for enhanced controls in 2 March 2017 certain areas: Continued to review and support the Internal Audit and Assurance Function with its increased, risk based scope including the Audit Plan, reports and effectiveness: and Worked with the CAES Board, to ensure that, as far as possible within the confines of the SSA, satisfactory controls existed in the business.
Given the challenges in 2016, lessons were learned during the year and in the year-end balance sheet review, and the lessons learned process will continue into 2017.
The Groups system of risk management and internal control has shown a number of weaknesses, albeit the controls and assurance mechanisms ultimately identified the issues arising, although in many cases in a less timely manner than should have been the case.
com Cobham plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Report continued Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
The Committee identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2016 financial statements with regard to the facts and circumstances then existing, on account of the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
Area of focus Key issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Revenue Revenue and profit The Committee considered accounting policies, judgements on Changes in commercial circumstances in contract recognition on material contracts and external audit reviews.
the second half of the year, and for KC-46 accounting contracts refer to the revised agreement with the client in note 1 of the Group A key focus for the Committee has been the revenue and profit early 2017, required a reassessment of Financial Statements recognition on the Groups long term development programmes, anticipated performance and estimated such as KC-46, where the Committee had regular updates from costs to complete on key contracts, most management in the course of the year, received external input on materially KC-46.
certain aspects, and into early 2017 performed a separate review on the status of risk and costs to complete.
Discussions with Notwithstanding the risks that remain in management addressed changing commercial circumstances the completion of these contracts, the into the second half of the year, the subsequent commercial Audit Committee was satisfied that the settlement reached in early 2017. position taken is appropriate.
Goodwill Goodwill and The Committee reviewed internal papers covering the basis The Committee was satisfied that the and acquired acquired intangible and quantum of valuation and resulting impairments, including forecasts leading to the impairments intangible assets asset carrying value explanations for any significant changes from those used in were reasonable and appropriate, assessments and previous years.
Such changes included lower initial profits reflecting the current performance required impairment following disappointing performance in 2016 and more cautious of the businesses and anticipated refer to note 10 of future expectations given the experience of the last year.
outlook, and that the disclosures the Group Financial made were appropriate.
Statements The Committee considered a modified basis of managements assessment for 2016 using a three year horizon for detailed cash flow forecasts previously five years.
The Committee also reviewed the appropriateness of the growth rates assumed within the Cash Generating Units, the discount rate applied to the cash flows and received confirmation that the sensitivity analysis had been correctly modelled.
Inventory Accounting for The Committee considered the appropriateness of the Groups The Committee considered that the inventory provisions policies for inventory provisions, taking into account the provisions made for inventory were refer to note 13 of different nature of the businesses across the Group.
Particular appropriate and properly accounted for.
the Group Financial consideration was given to the impact of changing demand Statements on the level of provision required along with specific areas where additional provisioning was appropriate.
The Committee considered the outcome of certain inventory counts during the year and worked with management to introduce change to the frequency of inventory counting in the Group.
An annual full inventory count was mandated in all business units in addition to the periodic cycle counts performed.
Presentation Identification and The Committee reviewed a report from management, which The Committee was satisfied that of adjusted measurement explained the methodology used and the rationale for excluding accounting and judgements were performance of underlying items from statutory profit to arrive at underlying profit.
reasonable and appropriate and that no measures trading profit, and prior period corrections were required.
the classification The Committee compared the treatment of non-underlying and disclosure of costs to prior years, and reviewed all non-underlying items.
non-underlying costs refer to note 2 of The Committee considered, in detail, the nature and quantum the Group Financial of exceptional items detailed in note 2 of the Group Financial Statements Statements, assessing whether it was appropriate to recognise the adjustments, whether they had been measured appropriately and whether any indicated errors related to prior periods.
Tax Accounting for The Committee reviewed explanatory papers from management, The Committee was satisfied that uncertain tax which included a review of the appropriateness of the tax the judgements and estimates were positions and provisions.
Papers reviewed included the impact of changes in reasonable and appropriate, and that recoverability of tax law and regulations, changes in interpretation of taxation risks associated with tax had been deferred tax assets regulation, increase in tax audits and challenges and testing of properly disclosed.
refer to notes 6 interpretations by tax authorities.
This is more fully described and 20 of the Group in note 29 of the Group Financial Statements.
In reaching its Financial Statements conclusion on material tax disputes, the Committee referred to external advice to support the position taken.
The Group Tax Director also regularly attended Committee meetings to discuss how the Group manages its tax risks.
com Cobham plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Objectives and responsibilities At least twice a year, immediately following a Committee meeting, the The Committees main objectives and responsibilities are set out in our Terms Committee meet separately with the PwC lead audit partner and the Head of Reference, which are available on Cobhams website.
The Committees Terms of Internal Audit and Assurance, to give them the opportunity to discuss of Reference, were reviewed and updated in December 2016.
In summary, the matters without executive management being present.
main objectives and responsibilities of the Committee are to: Financial reporting Key issues and activities Monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and any formal Matters considered by the Committee during 2016 were: announcements relating to its financial performance, and their compliance Feb Apr May Jul Dec with statutory requirements: Review significant financial reporting judgements and accounting policies Financial statements and reports and compliance with accounting standards: Full year results Ensure the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable Half year results and recommend their adoption by the Board: and Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Review the assumptions or qualifications in support of the Going Concern Rights issue prospectus Statement and the longer term Viability Statement.
Risk management and internal control External audit Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups risk Independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the management procedures: external auditor Ensure that a robust assessment of the Groups Principal Risks Appointment recommendation to the Board has been undertaken: and Policy on the provision of non-audit services Review and monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Approval of non-audit fees Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud External audit scope and fees Monitor and review the Groups policies and practices concerning business External auditors full year report conduct and ethics, including helpline or whistleblowing arrangements.
External audit External auditors half year report Make recommendations on the appointment, terms of engagement and Internal audit remuneration of the external auditors: Effectiveness review of Internal Audit Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity Internal Audit report and the effectiveness of the audit process: and Annual Internal Audit Plan Develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Governance, risk and assurance Internal audit and Assurance Risk management report Agree and assess the Internal Audit Plan: Risk management framework Monitor the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function: and Internal controls Consider the scope and the major findings of internal audit work done IT controls, including cyber security and managements response thereto.
LCM Composition Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud The Committee consists of independent Non-executive Directors only.
The Other current members are Alan Semple, Jonathan Flint, and Michael Hagee.
Following Updates on accounting and corporate the 2016 AGM, Michael Wareing stepped down from the Audit Committee in governance developments order to join the Remuneration Committee, due to Mark Ronalds departure from Terms of Reference the Board.
Biographical details for all of the Committee members may be found Reports on major long term on pages 46 and 47.
The membership of the Committee has been selected with development programmes the aim of providing the range of financial, risk and business expertise necessary Meetings with senior finance management to meet its responsibilities, the particular skills and experience of each member e. g. Sectors may be found on page 55.
Given Alan Semples experience as a Chartered Accountant, and formerly as Chief Financial Officer of John Wood Group plc, the Board has designated him as the financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the Code.
Meetings Five Audit Committee meetings were held during the year, attended as follows Alan Semple Chair Jonathan Flint Michael Hagee 1 Michael Wareing Unable to attend Attended 1 Michael Wareing stepped down from the Committee following the 2016 AGM, to join the Remuneration Committee.
During the year, the Committee invited the Chair of the Board, the Non-executive members of the Board, CEO, CFO, Group Director of Financial Control, Head of Internal Audit IA&A and Assurance, the PwC lead audit partner, other representatives from PwC, and other key senior management to attend their meetings as appropriate.
com Cobham plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Report continued Risk management and internal controls The Committees review covers all material controls, including financial, The Board has ultimate accountability for the execution of the Groups risk operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and is management and internal control systems, including the Groups Risk Appetite.
designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management and internal The Risk Committee, part of the Group Executive during 2016, is responsible for control policies and procedures, which are embedded in the business, have overseeing the execution of risk management throughout the Group.
The Board operated effectively in the review period.
The three principle lines of assurance has delegated responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness are outlined on page 34.
The Committee receives assurance from the Inside of the Groups risk management and internal control systems to the Audit Directors on the CAES Board on matters relating to the Advanced Electronic Committee, who provide reports to the Board.
It should be noted that due to the restrictions of the SSA our assessment of the control environment in CAES differs from that operated Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
Sector elsewhere in the Group.
In order to meet the requirements of the SSA and US Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, including the DSS requirements, oversight is indirect and flows primarily through the Inside maintenance of business unit and Sector risk registers, exist to identify and Directors.
For the majority of 2016 the level of restriction on information manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments.
The Risk increased from that of previous years.
Further details on how governance Committee undertakes a top level review of significant risks and the CEO procedures are maintained in the SSA may be found on page 51. reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
Despite extensive control mechanisms, there have been control weaknesses The Committee has continued to monitor the Groups governance, risk and identified relating to 2016 from which lessons must be learned.
It is intended that we will continue to weaknesses were identified, plans for remedying them were developed and support the programme through 2017 with enhancements being planned progress against the plans monitored.
The year-end closing balance sheet by new management as a part of their review of governance processes.
In exercise and adjustments highlighted a range of other issues to be addressed.
2016 progress on a number of planned improvements was deferred due The adjustments identified generally reflected a change in circumstances in the to management engagement in other areas, such as the rights issue.
second half of the year, or since the year end, combined with a more prudent assessment by management.
Whilst the control environment identified these Further information on the Groups Principal Risks and the risk management matters, in many cases these should have been picked up prior to the balance process may be found on pages 34 to 39. sheet review.
Our focus will continue into 2017 in order to rectify the control weaknesses identified, to achieve the standards of control we expect across The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been the Group.
developed over time to meet the needs of the business and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed, recognising differences in the nature External audit and operation of each of the Groups operations.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the external auditors PwC, including the approving of fees, and makes recommendations to the Board This process includes: on their appointment and re-appointment.
The total fees paid to PwC in the year The preparation and consideration of the longer term strategic plan.
The ended 31 December 2016 equalled 3.3m, with non-audit fees of 0.8m, which Board did not consider this in 2016 due to pressing operational issues: included 0.3m of other assurance services, represented 24.2% of the total.
An A comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved analysis of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit by the Board: work during the year can be found in note 4 to the Group Financial Statements.
The regular review and revision of financial forecasts for the year: Included in the non-audit fees were amounts related to the rights issue, where The monitoring of financial performance: the Committee elected to proceed with PwC, given it was determined that they The monitoring of project and programme management, through LCM: and held a differentiated position in the provision of this work, the work was allowable The appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
under independence rules and it was considered that it would not impact PwCs independence.
It should be noted that these fees include those relating to It is not always possible or appropriate for acquisitions to be fully integrated services that have now transferred to other professional services firms.
As a result legacy control systems still exist and other key control Total fees paid to the external auditors 2016 processes, including IT, are not fully standardised and implemented across the Group.
The implementation and operation of certain key controls is decentralised Audit fees 2.5m 75.8% Non-audit fees 0.8m 24.2% in the business units.
Sector, functional and central oversight activities and controls are in place to support this.
Elements of risk management and control processes have not performed as intended during the year, as described within this Annual Report and Accounts.
This resulted in the late identification of a number of charges for 2016.
Instances where the processes have not operated as intended included a range of weaknesses in detailed financial controls, inaccurate forecasting, weakness in controls over working capital, and project and management controls, Total fees paid to the external auditors 2015 particularly around the assessment of future contract profitability in changing commercial circumstances.
Audit fees 2.2m 61.1% Non-audit fees 1.4m 38.9% Delegated authorities and other controls are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Manual.
Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, the system includes a semi-annual representation letter from all business units.
Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial reporting is based upon reliable data, that there is compliance with the Groups Minimum Standards of Financial Control and that the results are properly stated in accordance with Group policies.
The Letter of Representation process PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material departures from Group has not highlighted any material weaknesses although exceptions have been accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the course of their identified where control enhancements are required and these are consistent audit work.
None were found or reported in 2016.
The Independent Auditors with the theme of improving financial and operational disciplines outlined in Report to the members of the Company can be found on pages 82 and 132. both the Chairmans and CEOs statements.. www.
com Cobham plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PwCs presentation of their audit plan to the Committee, set out the scope The findings of each Internal Audit review are summarised and the Committee and objectives of the audit, together with an overview of the planned approach, focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory findings and on the action plans in an assessment of the Groups risks and controls, and proposed areas of audit place to address them.
The Internal Audit reports are also made available, in full, focus.
The Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas of responsibility to the Committee separately.
Particular areas of focus during 2016 included the and scope of the December 2016 year-end audit and requested that an implementation of Internal Audit recommendations by the businesses and key enhanced level of reporting of matters identified in the audit be brought to matters from the Internal Audit reviews.
The Committee also received regular the Committees attention.
updates against the 2016 Internal Audit Programme throughout the year.
The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and The Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2016, including the monitoring of the Groups policies on services from external auditors, which proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The 2017 Plan are designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external was prepared considering a number of factors, including the Principal Risks of auditors.
These policies set out the approach to be taken when using the the Group.
The key points of focus in the 2017 Plan include: external auditors for non-audit work and regulate the appointment by the A continued focus on Internal Financial Controls Assurance: Group of former employees of PwC.
In addition to an independence review Lessons learned from 2016 balance sheet review: conducted by management, PwC has provided specific assurance and the Increased monitoring of controls and actions: Committee has considered the arrangements and safeguards that PwC has Stronger alignment with the Groups risks: in place to maintain its independence and objectivity, including the use of Continued improvement in the Groups assurance mapping process across separate teams where the provision of non-audit services has been approved.
the three lines of assurance: The external auditors follow regulatory requirements to maintain the objectivity Increasing focus on working capital management, in particular inventory of the audit process: these stipulate a five-year rotation policy in relation to the management: senior engagement auditor.
Pauline Campbell was appointed lead audit partner The development and implementation of an IT Assurance programme: and in 2014.
The Committee continues to be satisfied that PwC, the external auditors, The continued implementation of a revised audit approach on Programmes remain independent and objective.
In December 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved the revised policy on Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts the provision of non-audit services for recommendation to the Board.
The policy At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether, in the was amended in a number of areas, including to reflect the implementation of Committees opinion, the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced EU legislation.
The policy states, as a default position, that the external auditors and understandable, to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance, will not be engaged to provide any element of non-audit services.
However, the business model and strategy.
To assist this assessment, the Committee, Committee recognises that there may be some non-audit services for which supported by management, has adopted a process for the preparation and the Group might wish to use the external auditors.
In these circumstances, the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
deciding factor is that there is a clear differentiation for the work concerned, between the audit firm and other potential providers of the work.
Furthermore, In reporting on Alternative Performance Measures, the Group followed the the work must be permitted under the relevant regulations and must not impinge FRC recommendation to consider the Guidelines on Alternative Performance on the independence of the audit firm.
A decision to use the audit firm for Measures, as published by the European Securities and Markets Authority.
non-audit work must also be approved in advance of the use of the services, Account has also been taken of the disclosures of our peers, and current by: the CFO for fees up to 10,000, with the Chair to be advised at the time best practice.
of approval: the CFO in conjunction with the Chair of the Committee for fees between 10,000 and 100,000: and the Committee, as a whole, for fees over Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2016 100,000.
From 2017 the Committee will receive a summary at each meeting Annual Report and Accounts was representative of the year and presents of all approved non-audit work undertaken by the Groups external auditors.
As a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary a result of the new policy and the outcome of the external audit tender held in information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business 2015, the provision of non-audit services has progressively transitioned away model and strategy.
from the external auditors, PwC, during 2016.
Cobham Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud PwC were reappointed as the Groups external auditors by shareholders, The Cobham Code of Business Conduct, which incorporates the Groups upon the recommendation of the Committee, at the 2016 AGM following a whistleblowing policy, contains arrangements for an independent external comprehensive external audit tender process, as detailed in the 2015 Annual service provider to receive, in confidence, complaints on suspected violations Report and Accounts.
While the regulations surrounding auditor rotation of the Code for reporting to the Committee as appropriate.
Details of the would allow PwC to remain in post until the conclusion of the 2020 audit, the Code, are provided in the CR&S section of this report, on page 40.
The Committees current intention is to re-tender in 2018, for the 2019 audit, to Committee regularly received reports providing details of these cases, coincide with the next rotation of the PwC lead audit partner.
The Committee their outcome, and the corrective actions taken.
will not be inviting PwC to tender in 2018.
Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of the external An external review of the Committee was performed in 2015 in line with the auditors, including feedback from the finance teams at many of the operating external review of the Board.
The Committee Chair initiated an internal review companies.
of the effectiveness of the Committee towards the end of 2016, the results of which will be addressed in early 2017.
Internal Audit and Assurance In December 2016, the Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit and Assurance function, taking into account the views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The Group Head of IA&A attended every scheduled Audit Committee meeting throughout 2016 and in addition, had ongoing contact with Members of the Audit Committee throughout the year with and without management present.
With effect from November 2015 the direct reporting line of the Group Head of IA&A became the Committee Chair.
com Cobham plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
