Corporate Governance Report Fell short of expectations in many areas: demonstrates need to focus efforts in 2017 Dear Shareholder As noted in my earlier Chairmans report, we have had an extremely difficult year, with disappointing operational performance post the rights issue, resulting in gearing levels that are still too high.
Starting in the early part of 2017, we implemented operational actions to start the turnaround.
There are some areas we can deal with quite quickly but the turnaround will take time.
As your new Chairman, I am taking control of the Board evaluation in my early months and am using this time with my fellow Board members to consider the Boards strengths and, more importantly, our weaknesses.
We will be doing a lot of work around what and how we can learn from the events of the last year.
I have already announced my intention to effect a rolling programme of material Board changes over the next two years.
We have made good appointments at Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer level, with both of these individuals having the right background, experience and proven ability to turn the business around.
The new Executive Directors will be instrumental in stabilising the business, bringing focus and enhancing the leadership team and culture within the business.
We also recognise the need to improve our succession planning, at Board level and all levels down through the business.
It is disappointing that so many of our recent senior appointments have been external.
We have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, however, we clearly have many operational issues to deal with and we have made a good start.
The Directors present their report and the audited Group and Parent Company Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 and at the date of this Annual Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code, please refer to page 53 for further details.
This part of the Annual Report describes how the Company has applied, and Whilst we have complied complied with, the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is available from its website www.
with the Code, we clearly Responsibility statements have many operational Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page 81, and issues to deal with: we have those relating to the auditors are on pages 86 and 132. made a good start Share capital Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors in relation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given on page 78. www.
com Cobham plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial reporting The Board composition At its February 2017 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that the The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman John Devaney until Annual Report and Accounts for the 2016 financial year, taken as a whole, is 31 December 2016 when he stepped down and was replaced by Michael fair, balanced and understandable and the Board believes that the information Wareing, who previously acted as Senior Independent Director, a CEO Bob contained provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Murphy until 14 December 2016, when he was replaced by David Lockwood, Groups performance, business model and strategy.
a CFO Simon Nicholls until 31 December 2016 when he was replaced by David Mellors and five other Non-executive Directors of whom Michael Wareing was The Audit Committee, supported by management, has adopted a process to the Senior Independent Director until 31 December 2016, when Jonathan Flint enable the Board to take this view and this process was set out on pages 45 took over the role.
All Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent and 55 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
and the Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
They all held office throughout the year except Mark Ronald who stood down from The Directors have adopted the going concern basis, assuming the equity the Board, having completed nine years as a Non-executive Director, at the is raised as planned, in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts as stated conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
in the Financial Review on page 33.
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other Key events for 2016 significant commitments, are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The attendance of Completed a 500m rights issue, strengthening the balance sheet, however Directors at Board meetings is set out on page 46 and attendance at principal trading since the rights issue has been disappointing: Board Committee meetings as members of such committees during the year A new CEO and CFO were recruited during the year.
Although succession is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 55, 59 and 64. planning has been a prime objective and focus of the Board and within the business, the Board felt that, bearing in mind the Groups position and The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in financial performance during the year, very experienced individuals would the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, copies of which can be be needed to instigate the changes necessary within the business.
Internal obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company candidates were considered for both roles but it was clear that external Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing candidates would be better placed to make the changes needed.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by for recruitment was therefore external.
The succession plan for the senior ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, management team, including the Sector teams, was fully reviewed during either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
the year but needs to be replenished and strengthened: Continued oversight of the restructuring of the portfolio with planned All the Non-executive Directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time disposals of businesses, which were no longer considered core to the Group, to meet their time commitments to the Group.
Copies of their appointment two transactions were completed in the year: letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be available Both as part of ongoing knowledge growth and induction, the Board for inspection at the AGM.
members visited four sites during 2016 as a Group, other Board members separately visited other sites: Notwithstanding the Chairmans comments on page 5 around the Board Evaluated and approved two large contract bid submissions above authority refresh, no decisions have yet been made so in accordance with the Code, limits delegated to the Executive Directors outside of the regular Board which recommends that all Directors of FTSE350 companies seek re-election by meeting schedule: shareholders on an annual basis, all eligible Directors currently in office will retire Oversight of the relationship with one of our key customers in terms of new and seek re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders when business opportunities and performance on development programmes: and proposing re-appointment that the individuals performance continues to be Change of Chairman.
effective and that the individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions relating Priorities for 2017 to the removal of a Director.
As set out in the CEO statement on pages 6 and 7: Oversight of the outcome of the balance sheet review, with particular The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings attention placed on cash generation and the management of the cost base: and leading the Board.
The CEOs responsibilities include operational Oversight of the enhanced financial and operational disciplines and controls performance, corporate social responsibility and the development and Focus on customer intimacy and on execution: implementation of the Groups strategy.
He also focuses on long term growth Promote the reduction of complexity and duplication in the business: and and development of the Group, its people and customer relationships.
The Replenish the succession plan and strengthen the quality of our human Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed by resource talent.
The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
He also provides another point of contact for Michael Wareing shareholders if they have concerns that communication through the normal Chairman channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve, or where these 2 March 2017 contacts are inappropriate.
This channel was used extensively leading up to and following the rights issue in 2016. www.
com Cobham plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Board proceedings Board committees Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, were The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
The Company held six times during the year on a face to face basis and three were held Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee chairs provide by telephone.
In addition, there were five short notice meetings to support oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the following Board Board decisions required prior to the next scheduled meeting and for meeting.
Information relating to the activities of each committee may be found approvals necessary to support the rights issue completed during the year.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient There is also contact between meetings to progress the Groups business resources to undertake their duties.
Meetings are held in London and at other UK and international operational locations.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee.
The Executive Directors are the only members of this Committee, under the In 2016, the Board visited sites in Wimborne and Marlow in the UK, and chairmanship of the CEO.
The purpose is to assist the CEO in the performance of Davenport and Orchard Park in the US.
In addition, members of the Board made his duties and its terms of reference include: the discharge of obligations arising individual trips to other sites, for example, Birgit Nrgaard visited the SATCOM under the Companys share plans: the determination of the remuneration of the site in Denmark to increase her understanding of the changes impacting Non-executive Directors: the approval of banking facilities: and the approval of the business due to market conditions and David Lockwood visited several bids and contracts above the limits delegated to the Sectors.
This Committee operational sites in Australia as part of his induction prior to joining the Group.
met on 15 occasions during the year and, in addition, decisions were made as Site visits help the Board to understand the business, its strategy, problems being required to respond to business needs and market conditions, such decisions faced and how they may be able to help.
The Board is, by necessity, a diverse were subsequently ratified.
group of individuals, some with business backgrounds and others with more general management experience.
We need this level of diversity to make sure Through 2016, an executive Risk Committee, chaired by the CEO, and made the decisions made at this level have the right input and challenge.
With only up of all the members of the Group Executive, kept the corporate risk register five Non-executive Directors, we recognise that we may be light on a number under review and ensured that mitigating actions were kept in focus, ultimately of disciplines so we are currently reviewing Board numbers and skill sets.
It is also culminating in the formulation of the principal risks for the Group.
A Board important for the Board to try to understand and influence the culture around appointed Risk Committee has been set up in 2017, to increase oversight in the business, which cannot be achieved from inside the boardroom.
this important area, see page 5 for further detail.
During 2017, we are planning site visits to two of our business units which are Since the end of the year, a Disclosure Committee, comprising of the Executive facing changing or difficult market conditions.
Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary, has been set up to deal with the establishing and implementing of internal policies, systems and controls Michael Wareing, acting as the Senior Independent Director during 2016, held to ensure that potential inside information is communicated to it, considered, numerous meetings with the Non-executives, in the absence of the Chairman, to verified and released to the market where required.
This responsibility was carried appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman also held meetings with the out by the Executive Directors Committee during 2016.
Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors, and 1:1 performance appraisals with each Non-executive Director to discuss, amongst other matters, Management committees feedback from the Board evaluation exercise.
The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management committees are shown in the table below.
In addition formal financial The Nomination Committee were involved in the evaluation and subsequent performance, business development and functional reviews were held promotion of Michael Wareing to the role of Chairman and Jonathan Flint being on a quarterly basis during 2016. offered the role of the Senior Independent Director.
Risk The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise.
Safety, Health & Environment Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its three year financial plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and Business Ethics & Compliance removals from the Board.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured Group basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework ensuring Executive that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters Mergers & Acquisitions delegated in this way include, within defined parameters: the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and financing arrangements.
Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is Disclosure Panel responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, and can only be removed, by the Board.
If a Director were to have a concern that cannot be resolved this would be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive Directors are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were made during 2016.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, noted and authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating effectively to keep such disclosures up to date.
com Cobham plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board and committees performance evaluation CAES SSA Governance The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
During As noted on page 34, CAES is involved with classified US Defense programmes.
2015, the Board and its committees undertook an external evaluation.
The It therefore operates under a US DoD Special Security Agreement SSA as evaluation contract was awarded to Armstrong Bonham Carter ABC, following required by the US National Industrial Security Program.
In order to protect US a full tender process, which included five other service providers, and was national security interests, the SSA is designed to ensure that foreign ownership, described in detail on page 47 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
control or influence FOCI does not affect the way that CAES conducts its business affairs.
ABC collated all feedback collected and produced a series of recommendations to the Board, which were considered at their February 2016 meeting.
The Board The CAES Board is made up of: i the Cobham Groups CEO and CFO referred approved an action plan to address the recommendations.
During 2016, the to as Inside Directors : ii the CAES CEO and CFO known as Officer Directors : Board considered and agreed how to approach the results of the evaluation, and iii a number of Non-executive Directors known as Outside Directors however events during the year demanded focus on financial performance approved by the US Defense Security Service DSS.
so these recommendations remain as work in progress, as highlighted below.
Outside Directors and Officer Directors who are US nationals with appropriate During the early months of 2017, the Chairman will be undertaking in-depth US security clearances also make up the Government Security Committee GSC evaluation interviews with each individual Non-executive Director, to understand of the CAES Board.
The SSA does not permit Inside Directors to be members their thoughts and collate learning points to consider and agree with the full of the GSC, which is responsible for overseeing security related matters.
Board at its April 2017 meeting.
The areas covered will include: assessment of what went wrong during 2016, including lessons learnt: how the Board can The SSA restricts the level of participation that Cobham can have in certain CAES change, in terms of process and composition, to ensure better execution against activities.
For example, it gives the GSC exclusive access to certain US classified plan is achieved by the business: how the Board can assist the new Executive and controlled information as well as certain powers to ensure that FOCI does Directors as they settle into role: and finally, to assess the performance of each not affect the way that CAES conducts its business affairs.
Cobham maintains its involvement in CAES activities primarily through a series of shared services provided pursuant to an Affiliate Operations Plan AOP approved by the DSS and through Cobhams CEO and CFO representing Cobham plc at all CAES Board meetings in their capacities as Inside Directors.
All CAES Board Directors have a fiduciary duty to perform their roles in the best interests of Cobham plc as shareholder and in a manner consistent with the national security interests of the US, as set out in the SSA.
Cobham plc as shareholder retains the right to remove replace any member of the CAES Board, subject to the consent of the DSS in the case of an Outside Director.
In addition, the CAES Board cannot carry out any of the actions listed below without Cobhams express approval: Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of property or assets otherwise than in the usual course of business: Merge, consolidate, reorganise, dissolve or wind up the business: or Terminate the SSA itself.
The effectiveness of governance and assurance procedures between the Group and the CAES Sector are regularly reviewed.
Board evaluation actions Observations Progress Due to the importance of Private Venture PV investment in ensuring To be addressed as part of the strategic review to be undertaken by the the Group grows sustainably, the Board needs to have a comprehensive incoming Executive Directors.
Focus to be placed on placing PV increases understanding of the opportunities across the diverse portfolio to ensure where the Group can gain the best growth opportunity.
PV is allocated to the greatest opportunities.
The Board should, along with the Group Executive, review regularly the Customer feedback and satisfaction is measured and results monitored.
information on customer requirements and satisfaction.
Customer focus is a key priority for 2017.
The Board should continue to monitor the resolution of the issues Two sites have now had the CBOS system implemented, the roll out is encountered in the initial implementation of the Cobham Business managed by a Steering Committee who report in to the Group Executive Operating System CBOS.
and report up to the Board.
Future roll outs are under review, but likely to focus on parts of the business where there is a greater business need.
The Board will oversee the plans to improve culture and staff attitudes The SPIRIT values have been launched to the business but need to and assist the Group Executive in communicating the strategy.
The planned staff survey for 2016 was deferred as business performance was the key focus during the year.
The Board plans to gain a deeper understanding of the timing and CI benefits are regularly reported to the Board, improvements have been benefits of the Continuous Improvement CI programme to ensure, made during the year, but not to the level planned.
in the event of further revenue weakness, that there are plans to further reduce cost without putting the strategy at risk.
This will be a renewed focus in 2017, with an aim to reduce complexity and duplication in the business.
com Cobham plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued Investor Relations activity during 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Preliminary Q1 Trading Rights Issue Interim results Q3 Trading 2015 results completed 2016 Update: Update Rights Issue announced CFO CEO Chairman resignation resignation resignation announced announced announced New CFO New CEO New Chairman appointment appointment appointment announced announced announced The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective two way The maintenance of an effective two way communication flow has been communication programme with Cobhams shareholders and potential particularly important during the year, which has been characterised by the shareholders.
This approach assists investors understanding of the value drivers achievement of lower than expected profit and cash generation, resulting in in the Group and allows the Board to understand shareholder views when higher than expected debt and a rights issue.
There have also been changes to formulating and discussing strategy, financing, Board composition and policies.
the Board with a change in Chairman, Senior Independent Director, CEO and CFO announced during the year.
The shareholder relations programme in 2016 In previous years, Cobham has pursued an investor relations programme which has largely been driven by these events and, as a result, the Group has not held has had the purpose of keeping investors regularly informed of its prospects, a capital markets day or arranged the usual programme of visits to Cobham sites.
progress and, as appropriate, significant developments.
This has been achieved Instead, there has been a stronger focus on meeting shareholders individually in various ways, including through results day presentations by the CEO and CFO, or in small groups to explain developments, with a particular concentration which are also webcast live for shareholders unable to attend in person: regular of meetings in the lead up to the rights issue.
This programme has included face-to-face management meetings with investors: and through written content significant Chairman, Senior Independent Director, CEO, CFO and Investor which is made available on the website and in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Reflecting this, in total Cobham has undertaken 273 This includes useful information on Cobhams strategy, its businesses, historical 2015: 204 separate investor meetings during 2016. financial information and governance.
This has been supplemented by access to business unit managers with visits to Cobham sites, industry exhibitions and air shows, primarily highlighting the Groups products and technology.
Capital markets days have also been held, which have been used to give additional insight to selected Group businesses and personnel.
The Board has, in turn, been kept regularly informed of investor and market views and received written and oral feedback from investor meetings.
com Cobham plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
