CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code A.
Provision of information and support A1.
The Boards role The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all In 2016, the Board met nine times in order to review the Groups performance Board members receive accurate and timely information.
All the Directors and strategy against set objectives and a further five times outside of the normal have access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, sequence of meetings to deal with urgent Board decisions and the rights issue where the Directors judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value, to B6.
Board and committee performance evaluation approve the Groups strategic plan, and to monitor management performance The Board and the committees undertook an external evaluation in 2015, which against plan.
The Board also sets the Groups risk appetite, and monitors the was reported on during 2016.
Details of the process undertaken, and a table Groups risk management processes.
The Board has adopted a schedule of of observations made at this evaluation are included on page 51.
The Senior matters reserved for its specific approval, including a framework for those Independent Director also held a series of meetings with the Non-executives decisions which can be delegated to committees or otherwise.
Further details in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance can be found in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 48. during 2016.
Directors re-election The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election, as appropriate, by different people.
The division of responsibilities is documented and clearly at the AGM.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board, and the CEO is responsible for leading the day-to-day management C. Accountability of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
Financial and business reporting The Statement of the Directors Responsibility is set out on page 81, and the A3.
Role of the Chairman Independent Auditors Report commencing on pages 82 and 132.
The Companys The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, manages the meeting timetable business model is explained on pages 10 and 11. and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
Risk management and internal control systems A4.
Role of the Non-executive Directors The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and conducts a robust assessment of the The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding principal risks, along with an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors management, and internal control systems.
The activities of both the Audit and where necessary.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders, Risk Committee part of the Group Executive Committee during 2016, which should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk management, reporting communication has failed to resolve.
and assurance, are set out on pages 34 to 39.
The Chairman has held regular meetings with the Non-executives in the absence C3.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee of Executive Directors, providing an opportunity for any concerns to be discussed.
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year is provided in the Audit Committee B.
Effectiveness Report on pages 56 to 61.
The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee are B1.
The Boards composition reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
The Board currently consists of eight individuals: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five independent Non-executive Directors.
The composition of the D. Remuneration Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure that there D1.
Levels and components of remuneration is an appropriate mix of skills, and a range of diverse experience.
The Chairman The Board believes that the Groups Remuneration Policy is appropriately has announced a rolling programme of material Board change over the next designed to promote the long term success of the Company, while enabling two years.
Board members biographies are provided on pages 46 and 47 and the Group to attract, retain and motivate the executive talent required for identify the experience each Director brings to the Board.
A table identifying the delivery of its business strategy.
For further information, see the Directors the skills and experience of the Board members may also be found on page 55.
Remuneration Report, and the proposed Remuneration Policy, on pages 62 to 77.
The Board determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence of its members.
Conflicts of interest are also monitored and updated at least D2.
Development of remuneration policy and packages annually and more frequently as and when required.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of Non-executive Directors only.
The Terms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee are B2.
Board appointments reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
The Remuneration The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination Committee has delegated authority for setting the remuneration of Executive Committee.
The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference, as published Directors and the Chairman.
The fees payable to the Non-executive Directors on the Company website, document their responsibility regarding Board are determined by the Board, on recommendation from the Executive appointments.
The Committee consists of all the Non-executive Directors Directors Committee.
Further details of succession planning, including the Boards policy on diversity, including gender, can be found on page 55.
Time commitments Effective communication and engagement with investors is of paramount The time commitments of Non-executive Directors are defined on appointment importance to the continued success of the Company.
The outgoing Chairman and regularly evaluated.
The Chairman gives consideration to new directorships met with 18 shareholders during the year, at their request.
The incoming which may impact existing time commitments.
Chairman met with 20 shareholders immediately prior to his formal appointment.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 52.
Training and development On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme, which E2.
Constructive use of general meetings is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives.
The Board values all general meetings as an important opportunity to engage Further training for Directors is offered when taking a new role on a committee with investors.
Attendees at general meetings have the opportunity to ask and is otherwise available as required.
Further details can be found in the questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the formal Directors professional development section on page 55. business of the meeting.
com Cobham plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
