Governance and Directors Report OUR BOARD C N C D E G Paul Walsh 61 Johnny Thomson 44 Chairman Group Finance Director Joined as a non-executive director in January 2014.
Joined the Board and appointed Group Finance Appointed Chairman in February 2014.
Key skills and competencies Key skills and competencies Paul has significant experience in marketing, buying Johnny brings extensive finance and accounting and retail operations as well as substantial corporate experience across a range of businesses as well as leadership experience.
Career Career Former Chief Executive, Diageo plc, from Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in September 2000 to June 2013 and now an adviser to England and Wales, Johnny joined the Group in April the Chairman and Chief Executive, having originally 2009 as Finance Director for the Groups Brazilian joined the Board in 1997.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer Officer of the Pillsbury Company, Chairman of Ontex for the Brazilian business in October 2012 and, from Group N. V. and a director of GrandMet.
Former 1 February 2014, became the Regional Managing non-executive director of Unilever PLC, Centrica plc Director for Latin America, comprising Argentina, and United Spirits Limited.
Business Ambassador Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico.
Prior to joining on the UK Governments Business Ambassador the Group, Johnny was Vice President Finance for the network and a Member of the Council of the UK and Ireland Division of Hilton Hotels and served Scotch WhiskyAssociation.
in a variety of audit and transactional services and international client secondments at External appointments .
Chairman of Avanti Communications Group plc External appointments and Chime Communications Limited.
Non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, FedEx Corporation, None.
RM2 International S. A. and Simpsons Malt Limited.
Adviser to TPG Capital LLP TPG and a nominee E G Dominic Blakemore 47 director of the various companies as required by Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe TPG including Pace HoldingsCorp.
Joined the Board in February 2012 and appointed as Group Finance Director in April 2012.
Dominic was C E G N Richard Cousins 57 appointed Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe on Group Chief Executive 1 December 2015 and stepped down as Group Finance Joined the Board in May 2006 and was appointed Director on the same day.
Key skills and competencies Key skills and competencies Dominic has extensive financial management Richard brings invaluable UK and international experience in a number of international businesses corporate expertise to the Board.
He has experience together with general corporate in operational research and strategic planning and managementexperience.
has held a number of key management roles.
Career Career Former Chief Financial Officer of Iglo Foods Group Richard spent six years as Chief Executive Officer Limited, which Dominic joined from Cadbury Plc, of BPB plc, having previously held a number of where he was European Finance & Strategy Director, positions with that company.
His earlier career was having previously held senior finance roles as with Cadbury Schweppes Plc and BTR plc.
He is also a Corporate Finance Director and Group Financial former non-executive director of P&O plc, HBOS plc Controller.
Prior to joining Cadbury Plc, Dominic and Reckitt Benckiser Groupplc.
External appointments External appointments Senior independent non-executive director of Non-executive director of Shire plc and a Member of TescoPLC and a Member of the Advisory Board of the Academic Council of University CollegeLondon.
38 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE E G A C N R Gary Green 59 Carol Arrowsmith 62 Group Chief Operating Officer, North America Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in April 2007 and became Appointed to the Board in June2014.
Group Chief Operating Officer, North America Key skills and competencies inApril 2012.
Carol brings extensive advisory experience, Key skills and competencies especially of advising boards on executive Gary brings strong business and operational remuneration across a range ofsectors.
leadership as well as business development and Career wide ranging salesexperience.
Carol is a former partner of Deloitte LLP and Career was Vice Chairman of the UK business and former Gary is a Chartered Accountant and in 2001 received director of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
an honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales Carol is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of University in the USA.
Gary joined the Group in 1986 Personnel andDevelopment.
in a senior finance role in the UK and became a UK External appointments director in 1992.
He relocated to the USA in 1994 as Adviser to Deloitte LLP, Member of the Advisory Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North American Group for Spencer Stuart, director and trustee of business and in 1999 became Chief ExecutiveOfficer.
Northern Ballet Limited and a director of Arrowsmith External appointments AdvisoryLimited.
A C N R Stefan Bomhard 49 A C N R Don Robert 57 Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director SID Appointed to the Board in May2016.
Appointed SID on Key skills and competencies 1 October2015.
Stefan brings extensive experience of working in Key skills and competencies international environments, particularly relating to Don has extensive international board and the operation, sales and marketing of well-known general management experience, especially in consumer food and drinkbrands.
Career Career Stefan was previously Regional President, Europe, Don was formerly the Chief Executive Officer of Geneva at Bacardi Martini for five years and held Experian plc, former Chairman of the Consumer Data a number of worldwide senior positions at Cadbury Industry Association and Trustee of the Education and Plc, Unilever PLC, Diageo plc, Burger King and Employers Taskforce and previously held positions Procter & Gamble.
with First American Corporation, Credco, Inc. and External appointments USBancorp.
Chief Executive Officer of Inchcape plc.
External appointments Chairman of Experian plc, Achilles Holdco Limited A C N R Susan Murray 59 and Validis Holdings Limited.
Don is also a nonNon-executive Director executive director of the Court of the Bank ofEngland.
Appointed to the Board in October2007.
Key skills and competencies A C N R John Bason 59 Susan brings extensive executive and non-executive Non-executive Director retail, financial and strategic experience to theBoard.
Appointed to the Board in June2011.
Career Key skills and competencies Susan is former Chairman of Farrow & Ball, a former John brings significant financial and international non-executive director of Pernod Ricard S. A.
Imperial experience to the Board, gained from his long career Tobacco PLC, Enterprise Inns Plc, Aberdeen Asset with major global businesses.
Management PLC, SSL International PLC and Wm Career Morrison Supermarkets PLC, and former Chief Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
She is also England and Wales.
John was previously Finance former Worldwide President and Chief Executive of Director of Bunzlplc.
The Pierre Smirnoff Company, part of Diageo plc, and a former Council Member of the Advertising External appointments Standards Authority.
Finance Director of Associated British Foods plc, External appointments trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and Chairman of the charity FareShare.
Non-executive director of Grafton Group plc and of Boparan Holdings Limited trading as 2 Sisters Food Group and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 39 Governance and Directors Report Our Board continued A C N R A C N R D E G Nelson Silva 61 Mark White 56 Non-executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the Board in July 2015.
Joined the Group as General Counsel and Company Secretary in June2007.
Key skills and competencies Key skills and competencies Nelson has considerable executive management experience in a variety of senior leadership roles Mark has extensive legal and corporate within major international companies, with a secretariat experience gained in a number of particular focus on Brazil.
Mark is also a Trustee of the Compass Group Pension Plan and Career the Compass Retirement Income Savings Plan.
Nelson was formerly President of the Aluminium Career business unit at BHP Billiton, based in the UK.
Prior to joining BHP Billiton, he held a number of senior Mark is a Solicitor.
He was previously Group Company positions at Vale, including Sales and Marketing Secretary and General Counsel of Wolseleyplc and Director based in Belgium, Japan and Brazil.
Nelson Company Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and was also Managing Director of Embraer for Europe Rotork plc.
and Africa based in France and Chief Executive Officer External appointments of All Logistica inArgentina.
Member of the Upper Tribunal, Tax and Nelson previously held the position of Senior Vice Chancery Chamber.
President of BG Group plc responsible for Brazil, Bolivia and Uruguay.
Chairman Secretary A C N R Ireena Vittal 48 Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in July2015.
Key skills and competencies Ireena brings strong advisory, business and operational experience across a variety of retail businesses with a particular focus on India.
Career Ireena was formerly a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare and Axis Bank Limited, Head of Marketing and Sales at Hutchinson Max Telecom and a former partner at McKinsey andCompany.
External appointments Non-executive director of Zomato Media Private Limited, Godrej Consumer Products Limited, WIPRO Limited, The Indian Hotels Company Limited, Tata Global Beverages Limited, Tata Industries and Titan Company Limited.
40 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTOR EFFECTIVENESS AND TRAINING 2015-2016 PRIORITIES TIME SPENT The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad 10 1 hoc basis, as required by business needs.
The Board met six times 9 during the year and director attendance for each meeting is 8 shown in the table below.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings eligible Received health and safety updates at every meeting to attend.
Stepped down from the Board on 1 December2015.
Stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM Risk reviews on 4 February 2016.
Conducted Board meetings together with site visits in Canada 5.
Unable to attend a meeting due to unforeseen circumstances.
Prior to the meeting the director read the papers for the meeting and discussed her Received in-depth presentations from country managers, comments with the Chairman of the Board.
sector leaders e. g. Education and various function heads, for example, finance, tax, treasury, investor relations and legal If a director is unable to attend a Board or committee meeting, Reviewed the potential implications of the UK leaving the EU the Chairman of the Board and or committee chairman are pre and post the June 2016 referendum informed and the absent director is encouraged to communicate comments and opinions on the matters to be considered.
Each Commissioned an external evaluation of the Board in line director also attends the AGM to answer shareholder questions.
with the requirements of the Code Monitored the progress of changes to Company governance Board activities are structured to help the Board to achieve policies and practices in connection with the EU Market its goals and to provide support and advice to the executive Abuse Regulation which came into force on 3 July 2016 management on the delivery of Group strategy within a robust governance framework.
Meetings between the non-executive directors, both with and without the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Boards annual programme.
During the year there were a number of meetings at which senior management BOARD VISIT TO CANADA from our businesses made presentations to the Board.
This The March 2016 Board meeting was held in Toronto, enabled the non-executive directors to engage with colleagues Canada, when senior executives from the North American from across the Group.
On one occasion, this included a business met with the Board and gave in-depth presentation from our North American business which covered presentations on strategy and business operations.
During topics such as health and safety performance and prevention, its visit, the Board also visited a number of operational the competitive landscape and business sectors, growth trends, sites including the Centre Bell sports and entertainments working capital management, financial forecasts, business complex in Montreal, one of many sporting venues where wins and pipelines, risk mitigation and succession planning.
Compass North America provides hospitality services.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 41
