Governance and Directors Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Site visits to operating business units allow the Board as a A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all whole to interact with a diverse group of colleagues, provide non-executive directors following their appointment, including the non-executive directors with a unique insight into how the access to external training courses and visits to key locations business works on a day to day basis and help to assess local within the Group and meetings with members of the Executive management performance and potential.
Each year, the Board Board and other key senior executives.
The induction also covers aims to hold two meetings at Group locations.
These visits also a review of the Groups governance policies, structures and give the directors a unique opportunity to meet with colleagues business, including details of the risks and operating issues on a more informal basis and greatly assist in the succession facing theGroup.
Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than The Board has established a procedure for directors, if for a committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice at that one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every that each director will seek re-election at the AGM every three director also has access to the General Counsel and Company years.
However, in accordance with the Code, all directors Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
are followed and that good corporate governance and compliance New directors may be appointed by the Board, but are subject are implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their Group Chief Executive and the General Counsel and Company appointment.
Stefan Bomhard will seek election at the 2017 Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly AGM.
The Articles of Association limit the number of directors informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board to not less than two and not more than 20, save where papers and other information are distributed in a timely fashion shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-executive directors are to allow directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, is reviewed and may be extended by two further three directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the year terms.
It is Board policy that non-executive director Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities appointments should last for no more than nineyears.
incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not Don Robert succeeded Sir Ian Robinson as the SID on provide any coverage where a director is proved to have acted 1 October 2015.
His role includes providing a sounding fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged board for the Chairman and acting as an intermediary for appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the non-executive directors, where necessary.
The Board its directors andofficers.
believes that Don has the appropriate experience, knowledge In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the and independence to continue in this role.
As announced on developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to 22 November 2016, Susan Murray, who completed her nine further developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that year tenure as a non-executive director in October 2016, will each director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Nelson Silva will succeed Susan as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on the samedate.
The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate BOARD VISIT TO FRANCE dialogue with shareholders.
For example, in June 2016, the In July 2016, the Managing Director of the French Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director hosted an business hosted a visit by the Board to Paris.
The Board investor seminar where they and members of the management heard from the local executive team about the current team met with existing and potential investors.
The business French economic and political environment and the overview included presentations covering the Groups regions opportunities and challenges facing the business and its and the keythemes were structural growth, our people and operations.
Management also gave an in-depth review of innovation.
Feedback from the event was positive with particular how these challenges were being addressed.
The Board emphasis on the passion of the presenters and the Groups was also afforded an insight into the offer provided by proactive approach.
Compass France to its Business & Industry clients.
Although the non-executive directors are not formally required to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of the interim and annual results is encouraged.
42 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 G N I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE F E I R B 1 E P S H A A S H P E 2 I N BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The external performance evaluation has three Every year, a performance evaluation of the Board and of its committees is carried out to ensure that they continue to be distinct phases: effective, that each of the directors demonstrates commitment Report on the outcome to his or her respective role and each has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to theCompany.
In accordance with the Code, every third year, the evaluation must be undertaken by an independent external provider.
This year, as was the case in 2013, the performance evaluation of the Board was again conducted by independent external providers, EquityCommunications Limited ECL.
ECL has no connection with the Company other than evaluating the Board and Comprehensive its committees.
brief by the Chairman and ECL had the benefit of being able to directly compare the the General evaluation exercise with that conducted in 2013.
ECL found Counsel and a Board that had successfully transitioned chairmen and a Company number of non-executive retirements and appointments, but Secretary which had continued to perform well throughout.
ECL found that the Board remained effective with positive stewardship by the Chairman and noted that the experience of the newer non-executive directors was beginning to emerge.
Strategically, A series of one to one interviews ECL found that the Board was aligned in its understanding of the Groups strategy, that a number of strategic questions which were being considered in 2013 had been answered and that the PHASE 1 clarity of approach was fully supported.
A key pillar to the ECL was given a clear and comprehensive brief by success of the Board remained being forward looking and the Chairman and the General Counsel and Company ensuring that succession planning was a matter of constant Secretary.
The questions that were prepared took into concern and review, at both executive and non-executive level.
account the principal themes which had emerged from It is the view of the Board that each of the non-executive the preceding 2015 internal evaluation as well as the directors brings considerable management expertise and an 2013 external evaluation which ECL hadundertaken.
independent perspective to the Boards deliberations and that The evaluation process took place in May 2016.
Each they are considered to be independent of management and director received a copy of the questionnaire in advance free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, of their meeting withECL.
or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
Overall, the Board considered the performance of each director PHASE 2 to be effective and concluded that both the Board and its ECL conducted a series of one to one interviews with committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the Chairman, each member of the Board and the the required levels of governance and control.
The Board will General Counsel and Company Secretary.
continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Each interview covered an agenda which included questions about strategy and operations, Board composition, succession planning, Board administration and the Board committee structure and any specific matters which the director wished to raise.
Directors were very much encouraged to raise any other matters they felt relevant to the Board evaluationprocess.
PHASE 3 A report on the outcome of the evaluation exercise was presented to the Board at its September 2016 meeting.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 43 T E G R N V I I E T W R O S P E R 3 E S A H P Governance and Directors Report Corporate Governance continued CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Directors who are not members of individual Board committees may also be invited to attend one or more meetings of those As part of their ongoing development, the executive directors committees during theyear.
may seek one external non-executive role on a non-competitor board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all to all Board committees.
The chairmen of each of the principal appointments are subject to the Boards approval and the Board committees attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder monitors the extent of directors other interests and the time questions that might be raised on a committeesactivities.
commitment required to fulfil those interests to ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
The Board committeesare: Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a The Disclosure Committee ensures the accuracy and timeliness direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict of public announcements of the Company and monitors the with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to Companys obligations under the UKLA Rules and the DGTR.
the obligation that he or she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board an interest in any transaction or arrangement under Meetings are held as required.
At the date of this Report, the consideration by the Company.
The Companys Articles of Disclosure Committee comprises Johnny Thomson, Mark Association authorise the directors to approve such situations White, the Group Financial Controller, the Director of Group and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to Internal Audit, the Director of Strategy and Communications be dealt with.
The Board follows an established procedure when and the Head of Investor Relations.
deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict EXECUTIVE BOARD of interest.
Only independent directors i. e. those who have no The Executive Board is the key management committee for interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the directors the Group and at the date of this Report comprises the executive directors of the Company, Mark Van Dyck Regional Managing must act in good faith and in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Furthermore, the Director, Asia Pacific, Alfredo Ruiz Plaza Regional Managing Director, Latin America, Mark White General Counsel and directors may, if appropriate, impose limits or conditions when granting authorisation.
Company Secretary and Robin Mills Group HR Director.
The Executive Board meets regularly and is responsible Any authorities are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Board for developing the Groups strategy, capital expenditure and considered and authorised each directors reported actual and investment budgets.
It reports on these areas to the Board for potential conflicts of interest at its July 2016 Board meeting and approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring financial, considers any changes on an ad hoc basis throughout the year.
operational and customer quality of service performance, health COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, succession As noted on page 36, the Board has established a number of planning and day to day management of the Group.
committees to assist in the discharge of itsduties.
GENERAL BUSINESS COMMITTEE The formal terms of reference for the principal committees, The General Business Committee comprises all of the executive approved by the Board and complying with the Code, directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys are available from the General Counsel and Company business within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board Secretary and can also be found on the Companys website at and subject to those matters reserved to the Board.
Terms of reference are reviewed annually and updated when necessary to reflect changes AUDIT COMMITTEE PAGE 45 in legislation or best practice.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE PAGE 52 NOMINATION COMMITTEE PAGE 55 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PAGE 58 44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016
