AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT In addition to the meetings of the Committee, the Chairman also met Attendance Current Members Role record privately on occasion with individual members of management during the year, principally in order to discuss the risks and challenges faced 1.
Minnow Powell Non-Executive Director 4 4 by the business and, importantly, how these are being addressed.
On Chairman two occasions during the year, the Committee met separately with 2.
Ros Rivaz Non-Executive Director 1 1 the external Auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk 3.
Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 4 4 Management without Management present.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 4 4 PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Immediately following each meeting of the Committee, the Ros Rivaz was appointed to the Board on 11 November 2016.
Chairman reports to the Board on the Committees activities, and how it is discharging its responsibilities as set out in its Terms COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE of Reference which can be found on the Companys website at As at 31 December 2016, the Audit Committee was comprised of the www.
four Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
All members are considered to be appropriately qualified and experienced Its main responsibilities during the year, as set out in the Code, were to fulfil their role and allow the Committee to perform its duties as follows: effectively.
For the purposes of Code provision C. 3.1, two members monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company of the Committee, both Minnow Powell and Philip Yea, are considered and any formal announcements related to the Companys to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee financial performance, and to review any significant financial notes the compositional requirements of the New Code and confirms reporting judgements contained therein: that, after having considered the requirements against feedback review the Companys internal financial controls and review the provided through the Board and Committee effectiveness review, the Companys internal control and risk management systems: Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which review the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit and Risk the Company operates.
Further details of specific relevant experience Management functions: can be found in the Directors biographies on pages 54 and 55. review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties relating MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE to financial or other matters in confidence and ensuring that The Committee met four times during the course of 2016.
Meetings arrangements are in place for the proportionate and are attended routinely by the Chairman of the Board, Group independent investigation of such matters: Finance Director, Chairman of the Group Risk Committee, Group review on an ongoing basis the Companys relationship with its Head of Financial Reporting, the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk external Auditor, including monitoring its independence and Management and the external Auditor.
They cover a standing list of objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, ensuring agenda items which is based on the Committees Terms of Reference, that an appropriate policy is in place concerning any engagement and consider additional matters at the discretion of the Chairman as of the Auditor for the provision of non-audit services to the and when deemed necessary.
Meetings are also attended by the Group Company and making recommendations to the Board in respect Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
I am of the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor satisfied that the flow of supporting information to the Committee is and the remuneration paid to it by the Company: and appropriate and provided in good time to allow members sufficient provide advice to the Board to enable it to report on whether the opportunity to review matters due for consideration at each Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced Committee meeting.
I am also satisfied that meetings were scheduled and understandable and provide the information necessary for to allow sufficient time to enable full and informed debate.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The activities of the Committee, during the year, which are based upon its Terms of Reference, are set out below: Minnow Powell Chairman of the FINANCIAL REPORTING AND JUDGEMENTS Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Group and, in doing so, considered the following key judgements made in their preparation.
In reviewing these matters the Committee also took account of the view of the external Auditor, KPMG LLP.
Services contract accounting The Committee had a key focus on Services contract accounting during the year.
The Audit Committee received regular updates from Management on a number of specific key material contracts across its major geographies throughout the year.
These contracts were selected due to performance being lower than anticipated at the bid stage of the contract, or where there were complex revenue recognition elements to the contract.
68 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 The Committee remains satisfied with the revenue recognition Going concern basis for the Financial Statements accounting judgements made but will continue to monitor the In order to input into the Boards assessment of whether it was performance of several contracts, in part, to ensure that appropriate appropriate for the Group to adopt the going concern basis in internal responses are formulated to address material learnings from preparing Financial Statements, at both the half year and full year, the execution of these contracts.
the Committee considered detailed reviews, based on the Groups financial plans, in relation to liquidity and solvency of the Group Supply Chain revenue recognition and cut-off procedures taking into consideration its cash position and committed bank Given the level of sales around year end, the Audit Committee facilities.
It considered the financing requirements of the Group suggested to the Auditor that they pay particular attention to Supply in the context of available committed facilities, including one of Chain revenue cut-off.
40 million which remains undrawn, and challenged Managements forecasts concerning trading performance.
The Committee noted the The Committee was pleased to note that no errors were found as Code requirement for the Directors to state whether they consider a result of the Auditors work in this area.
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Exceptional and other adjusting items Groups 2016 Financial Statements.
Following its considerations, the The Committee considered the nature and quantum of those Committee was satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation items disclosed as exceptional or as other adjusting items outside continues to be appropriate.
1 of adjusted profit before tax in the Groups 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
New Revenue Recognition Standard IFRS 15 Throughout the year, the Committee has discussed the forthcoming The Company made a number of fair value adjustments on acquisition IFRS 15 standard and the potential impacts on the Groups revenue of a German company, becom Informationssysteme GmbH becom, recognition and associated policies and procedures.
The final payment of the contingent consideration due to 2016 meeting, the Committee received a formal impact analysis and the vendor was made during 2016, following which the remaining implementation readiness overview from Management.
In March 2017, 3 million of historical fair value adjustments were released to the Committee received a presentation from a third party accounting the Income Statement.
The Committee reviewed the history of the firm, who had been selected after a competitive tender, on IFRS 15 adjustments, Managements calculations, and the judgements made which informed the disclosure in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
to classify this as an exceptional item.
The Committee was satisfied The progress will be monitored as a standing item at each Audit that due to the materiality and nature of the release, the classification Committee meeting in 2017.
1 outside of the adjusted results was appropriate.
VIABILITY STATEMENT The Committee reviewed the classification of the loss recognised The Code requires the Directors of the Company, taking into account by the Group following its sale of its subsidiary in Luxembourg.
The the Groups current position and principal risks, to explain in the Committee was satisfied that Managements proposal to report Annual Report and Accounts how they have assessed the prospects of the loss as a separate line on the face of the Consolidated Income the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider Statement, was in line with the Groups accounting policy due to its that period to be appropriate.
The Directors are further required to nature and infrequency.
Further, the treatment was consistent with state whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will the prior period.
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the assessment period they have chosen, drawing attention to Following a restructuring in France, which saw the Group exit a Line of any qualifications or assumptions as necessary.
This requirement is Business that had gross overcapacity, the Committee was satisfied known as a Viability Statement.
that presenting the cost of this restructure within exceptional items was important in understanding the scale and speed of the wider Following its review of proposals from Management, the Committee French recovery and its impact on the French Segment which is of continues to recommend to the Board that it set the period of relevance when assessing the wider Group result.
assessment for this Viability Statement at three years, given the nature of the Groups business model and its strategic time horizon.
The Committee has continued to monitor the progress of the Groups The Committee and Board reviewed Managements financial forecasts two remaining onerous contracts in Germany during the year.
Whilst for the three-year period of assessment, and challenged the process these contracts have continued to show improved operational undertaken and assumptions made by the Groups Risk Committee performance, the Committee reviewed Managements ongoing in assessing how those forecasts would be impacted by a realistic judgements with regards to provisioning against the residual concurrence of the Groups principal risks.
As a result, the Committee contractual losses forecast and agreed that the levels remained recommended to the Directors that they could make the statement appropriate.
required for the assessment period without qualification.
The statement and explanation from the Directors can be found within 1 The Committee also considered the presentation of adjusted profit the Corporate Governance Statement on page 60. in the first half of the Annual Report and Accounts, after taking account of the European Securities and Markets Authority Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures which aim to promote the usefulness and transparency of such measures.
The Committee remains satisfied with the detailed reconciliation between statutory 1 and adjusted measures that the Group has presented since the 2015 Interim Report, and the level of disclosure which explains both the variances between these measures and the reasons behind such variances.
The Committee concluded that the presentation of 1 adjusted profit gave clarity on performance and was reconciled appropriately to reported amounts, with sufficient equal prominence with statutory profit.
69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITY PERFORMANCE OF THE COMMITTEE During the year, the Committee reviewed its own Terms of Reference No major matters were raised in the externally facilitated annual against the Code and the Guidance for Audit Committees, following evaluation of the Committees performance.
which these were amended and submitted to, and subsequently approved by, the Board.
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS AND THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK It also received a report from the external Auditor relating to any On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee is responsible for changes to its procedures as a result of the EU Audit Directive coming overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Internal into force, and the Committee reviewed and approved an amended Control and the Risk Management Framework, and during the year Non-Audit Fee Policy as a result.
reviewed the effectiveness of a number of its internal control procedures.
A number of detailed areas for improvement were The Committee commissioned a review of the Groups Finance Shared identified and actions implemented as a result of the review of Services Centre SSC based in Budapest, Hungary.
The Committee internal controls by Management and the Internal Audit function.
examined the aspects of the migration of relevant accounting To assist the Board, the Committee monitors the risk management services, specifically the turnaround in core accounting functions processes and reports from Internal Audit.
The Committee continues for France now performed in the SSC.
The Committee also reviewed to monitor implementation of agreed improvements, with an operational issues within the SSC, specifically the annual attrition emphasis on strengthening user access controls.
rate, and examined Managements future strategy for incremental implementation of further service provisioning from an SSC The Group Risk Committee GRC meets on a quarterly basis to review environment.
the key risks facing the business.
These are identified and assessed as to their likelihood and impact within the Groups Heat Risk Map, and The Committee reviewed policies, processes and controls and the are then reviewed in conjunction with accompanying risk mitigation reporting of the Groups tax and treasury functions, and controls plans.
The GRC minutes are circulated to the Audit Committee for around purchase to pay and order to cash.
A review of the Companys review, with any matters of note highlighted and explained to the distributable reserves was carried out prior to the declaration of Committee by the GRC Chairman.
This includes an analysis of how both the interim and final dividends by the Company in respect of the the exposure of the Group to these risks may have moved during the reporting period.
The Committee continues to monitor the overall previous three-month period, how mitigations to the risks have been recovery of performance in France.
introduced or developed, and also provides an assessment of the effectiveness of the process in the view of the GRC.
Following the Referendum on 23 June 2016, the Committee requested Management to review the commercial and financial implications of Compliance Steering Committee the decision to leave the European Union.
Management presented The GRC established a Compliance Steering Committee CSC in the these for examination to the Committee at the earliest available first half of the year.
The CSC meets quarterly, two weeks before the opportunity leading the Committee to agree that the Group remains GRC and is chaired by the Group Head of Legal & Contracting.
The well-positioned through its geographic spread, balance sheet Group Human Resources Director and the Group Head of Internal Audit strength and diversity of offering to meet the foreseeable challenges & Risk Management make up the rest of the CSC.
that leaving the European Union may present.
The CSC is responsible for defining relevant areas of law or regulation Having been requested to do so by the Board in accordance with applicable to the Group, to assign these to members of Management Code provision C. 3.4, the Committee also provided advice on whether and identify levels of compliance and associated risk, with the aim of the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced ensuring that these are appropriate for the Group as a whole.
Critical areas, amongst others, within the remit of the CSC include Anti-bribery and understandable and provides the information necessary for and Corruption, Whistleblowing and Data Protection.
At the end of the shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, year, the CSC distributed a questionnaire to Management in order to business model and strategy.
The Committee sought assurance establish ownership, and current levels, of compliance with laws and as to the review procedures performed by Management to support regulations within the Group and will report their findings to the GRC and provide assurance to the Board in making this statement.
These include clear guidance issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent approach and a formal review process to ensure that During the year, the CSC implemented a Group-wide Whistleblowing the Annual Report and Accounts are factually correct and include all hotline, provided by a third party, to provide a secure and anonymous relevant information.
Following a review, the Committee advised the means for employees to make the disclosures that they would Board that appropriate procedures had been applied.
otherwise feel unable to do so.
The CSC supervised the rollout of the Group Ethics policy, which is largely complete and only subject to local employee council approval.
The CSC advised on the appointment of a Group Data Protection Officer and presented the Group Data Protection Standards and Principles to the Audit Committee.
70 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 WHISTLEBLOWING THE INTEGRITY OF THE GROUPS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AUDITOR The Committee confirms that it is satisfied that, as at the date of AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS this report, arrangements are in place i to ensure that staff are External audit able, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties The Audit Committee is required to oversee the Groups relationship in financial and other matters and ii for the proportionate and with its Auditor, and to make recommendations in relation to the independent investigation of such concerns, including appropriate Board concerning the appointment, reappointment and remuneration follow-up action.
During the year, two such incidents were reported to of the Auditor.
the Committee who concluded that appropriate follow-up action had been taken.
Reappointment of the Auditor Following the results of a review of the effectiveness of the external THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Auditor, and further discussions amongst the Committee, the The Group has an Internal Audit function which reports to the Committee has recommended to the Board that it propose the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The function has direct access to reappointment of KPMG LLP as the Groups Auditor for approval by the CEO and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Its key objectives the Companys shareholders at its 2017 AGM.
KPMG LLP was first are to provide independent and objective assurance on risks, and appointed as the Groups Auditor with effect from May 2015, following controls, to the Board, the Audit Committee and Senior Management, a competitive tender process.
The Committee will continue to review and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and the performance of KPMG LLP as set out below on an annual basis.
The Board, acting through the Audit lead audit engagement partner is Tudor Aw and he has been in place Committee, has directed the work of the Internal Audit department since the firms appointment in 2015. towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit programme, During the reporting period, the Company was in compliance with The ensuring that all significant areas of the business are independently Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation reviewed over, approximately, a three-year period.
The programme Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee and the findings of the reviews are assessed continually to ensure Responsibilities Order 2014. that they take account of the latest information and in particular, the results of the annual review of internal control and any shifts Effectiveness of the external audit process in the focus areas of the various businesses.
The effectiveness of The Committee places great importance on ensuring a high quality, the Internal Audit department and the Groups risk management effective external audit process.
When conducting the annual review, programme are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
the Committee considers the performance of the Auditor as well as their independence, compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory The formal review consists of an evaluation of Internal Audit and ethical standards and objectivity.
activities by members of the Audit Committee, managers across the business who have been subject to audit during the year and a selfThe Committee reviewed the effectiveness and quality of the external assessment by the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management.
audit process in KPMG LLPs first year by: The assessment covers areas such as departmental organisation, reviewing the audit plan and monitoring changes in response to business understanding, skills and experience, communication and new issues or changing circumstances: performance.
The results showed improvements in work planning, receiving reports on the results of the audit work performed: and execution and reporting with further work to be done in 2017. considering the report of the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team AQRT on KPMG LLP.
The Chairman met with the head of KPMG The role of the Internal Audit function and its scope of work continue LLPs UK audit practice to understand the 2015 AQRT review.
to evolve to take account of changes within the business.
A formal Responses provided by KPMG LLP were reviewed by the Committee.
audit charter, which was updated during the year, is in place to guide the work and procedures of the function.
The Committee will review further the effectiveness of the external audit process by means of a survey which is completed by key The Committee received an update from the Group Head of Internal stakeholders and relevant internal management.
The matters covered by the survey include the quality of delivery of the service Audit & Risk Management at each meeting during the year on and the KPMG LLP employees that are delivering it, including their current audit activities, and any associated issues resulting from understanding of the business and its audit risks, their degree of the completion of their work.
The Chairman meets with the Group scepticism and challenge, alongside their competency.
The results of Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management on a number of occasions the questionnaire will then be discussed as a specific agenda item at throughout the year, through which he is updated regularly on the the Committee meeting immediately following the completion of the activities of the Internal Audit function, and receives a frequent questionnaire process, and any actions requested by the Committee assessment as to whether the function is resourced adequately.
to enhance effectiveness will be followed up and appropriately monitored thereafter.
The Committee has continued to work with the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management on refining the Audit Universe, challenging and approving the Internal Audit plan and mapping that plan to our principal risks, and mitigating controls, as set out on pages 22 to 25.
This is kept under review to reflect the changing needs of the business and to ensure that new and emerging business risks are appropriately considered within it, including reviewing and providing assurance to the Committee regarding the effectiveness of controls over bid management and contract reporting.
71 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Auditor independence The Committee places considerable importance on ensuring the continuing independence of the Groups Auditor.
This topic is reviewed at least annually with the Auditor, who confirm their independence to the Committee twice a year.
Non-audit services In support of maintaining the Auditors independence, the Committee has established a policy in relation to the scope and extent of provision of non-audit services by the Groups Auditor which is summarised on this page.
During the year, the Committee monitored compliance with this policy monitoring the level of non-audit work provided by the external Auditor, resulting in non-audit fees being 44.3 per cent of the KPMG LLP overall audit fee during 2016, as set out below: 2016 2015 000 000 Auditors remuneration: Audit of the Financial Statements 44 43 Audit of subsidiaries 493 428 Total audit fees 537 471 Audit-related assurance services 56 67 Taxation compliance services 29 44 Other assurance services 9 54 Taxation advisory services 144 124 Total non-audit services 238 289 Total fees 775 760 The Committee deemed it appropriate to use the Groups Auditor for tax services as, at the time it was commissioned under the prevailing policy, due to their existing and detailed prior knowledge and understanding of the business.
The Group will cease using the Groups Auditor for all taxation services during 2017.
The Auditor is appointed primarily to report on the annual and interim Financial Statements.
The Committee places a high priority on ensuring that their independence and objectivity is not compromised either in appearance or in fact.
Equally the Group should not be deprived of expertise where it is needed and there may be occasions where the external Auditors are best placed to undertake other accounting, advisory and consultancy work in view of their knowledge of the business, confidentiality and cost considerations.
Following recent changes to the FRCs Ethical Standard ES, the Committee revised its non-audit services policy.
Under this policy the Group Auditor should not be engaged to undertake work which constitutes a prohibited non-audit service as defined under provision 5.167 of the FRC ES.
Any other non-audit service a Permitted Service must, to the extent that they are not viewed as trivial, be approved in advance on an individual basis by the Audit Committee.
In each case where the Group Auditor is authorised to perform a Permitted Service, the Audit Committee will assess properly threats to the Auditors independence and proposed safeguards to be applied when such Permitted Services are carried out.
It will also document what action was taken by the Group Auditor, including appropriate safeguards where necessary, to ensure that its independence was not compromised as a result of performing the Permitted Service.
The Committee will also discuss and document why it viewed the Group Auditors as the most appropriate party to perform the Permitted Service.
The Group Auditor will, in no circumstances, undertake non-audit services for the Group to the extent that the total fee payable by the Group to its Auditor exceeds 70 per cent of the average annual statutory fee payable by the Group over the last three consecutive years.
Minnow Powell Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 March 2017 72
