CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT RIGOROUS AND EFFECTIVE OVERSIGHT The Committee has also considered new developments in corporate governance and reporting and, in light of its review of such matters, was able to offer advice on such issues and, as necessary, recommend an appropriate course of action to the Board.
For example, on 17 June 2016, the EU Audit Directive the Directive and Audit Regulation the Regulation became effective, resulting in changes to the audit regime for EU public interest entities including the Company.
Notwithstanding the outcome of the UKs EU referendum, all EU legislation will remainin place for the time being.
The new legislation introduces mandatory rotation of auditors and tighter restrictions on the provision of non-audit services, as well assetting out requirements in relation to the responsibilities andcomposition of audit committees.
It has also resulted in changes being made to the CA 2006, the Code and the DGTR and consequently to the Committees terms of reference.
We continue to develop and grow our business but, of course, in some of the territories where we operate the concept of The Board recognises that a prudent and corporate governance is still underdeveloped.
In these regions in robust approach to risk mitigation must particular, it is important to have a clear, well-established system of risk management and internal control to ensure that growth is be carefully balanced with a degree of underpinned by solid business practice.
In this regard, we have flexibility so that the entrepreneurial continued our work to strengthen our Regional Governance Committees RGCs with the aim of further embedding the spirit which has greatly contributed to Groups risk management culture within the business.
the success of your Company is not inhibited.
The Boards attitude to and appetite for risk are communicated to the Groups businesses through the strategy planning process.
In determining its risk appetite, the Board recognises that a DEAR SHAREHOLDER prudent and robust approach to risk mitigation must be carefully On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this years Audit balanced with a degree of flexibility so that the entrepreneurial Committee Report.
It has been another busy and interesting spirit which has greatly contributed to the success of the year for the Committee.
The Committee and the Board remain In December 2015, Johnny Thomson was appointed as Group satisfied that the Companys internal risk control framework Finance Director and I have spent time with him over the year continues to provide the necessary element of flexibility without discussing his initial observations and priorities in the short and compromising the integrity of risk management and internal medium term.
In May 2016, Stefan Bomhard was appointed to control systems.
Stefans appointment brings a new perspective to the During the year, we reviewed the Groups ongoing principal Committee and I am pleased to welcome him aboard.
In the operational risks, more details of which can be found on pages 27 following month, the country voted to leave the EU.
The long to 29, and in the pages which follow, we have set out details of the term effects of the UKs EU referendum are not yet known and Committees activities during the year.
will only become clear in time.
Until then the Committee will continue to monitor for changes that could impact on the Over the coming year, the Committee will continue to monitor Companys internal risk control processes and procedures the ongoing status and progress of action plans against key risks and to advise the Board accordingly.
on a regular basis: review its activities in the light of regulatory and best practice developments and to report its findings to As in previous years, the Committees primary focus has been the Board.
centred on the accuracy of the Groups financial reporting, together with related internal control activities and risk and compliancematters.
The Code provides that through its financial reporting, the Board should provide a fair, balanced and understandable John Bason assessment of the Companys prospects.
At the Boards Chairman of the Audit Committee request, the Committee has reviewed the 2016 Annual Report 22 November 2016 to determine whether it considered that the document, taken as a whole, meets this standard and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position andperformance, business model and strategy.
The Committee concluded that the requirement has beenmet.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 45 Governance and Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee invites Paul Walsh Chairman, Richard Cousins Group Chief Executive, Johnny Thomson Group COMPOSITION Finance Director, Kate Dunham Group Financial Controller The Audit Committee comprises John Bason, Chairman, and all and Kamal Zoghbi Director of Group Internal Audit, together of the non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
with senior representatives of the external auditor, to attend Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board each meeting although, periodically, it reserves time for following recommendations by the Nomination Committee discussions without invitees being present.
Other senior and the Audit Committees membership is reviewed by the management are invited to present such reports as are Nomination Committee and as part of the annual Board required for the Audit Committee to discharge itsduties.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to Each member of the Audit Committee brings an appropriate respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised balance of senior level financial and commercial experience concerning its activities.
The remuneration of the members in multinational and or complex organisations, combined ofthe Audit Committee and the policy with regard to the with a good understanding of the Companys business and remuneration of the non-executive directors are set out is therefore considered by the Board to be competent in the on pages68 and 71.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Audit Committee are summarised on pages 38 to 40.
The OBJECTIVES Board considers that each member of the Audit Committee is The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision independent within the definition set out in the Code.
The Audit of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Committees Chairman, John Bason, is the Finance Director of Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of related Associated British Foods plc and is therefore considered by disclosures, the performance of both the internal and external the Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial audit functions, and the management of the Groups systems of experience and to be competent in auditing and accounting.
internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
All members of the Audit Committee receive an appropriate ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR induction, which includes an overview of the business, its The key matters reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee financial dynamics and its risks.
Audit Committee members during the year are set out below: are expected to have an understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, including FINANCIAL REPORTING the applicable accounting standards and statements of the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, statements including the announcements thereof to the financing, internal control mechanisms, and matters that London Stock Exchange with both management and the require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts external auditor, including: and key figures as well as the role of internal and external at the Boards request, whether the Annual Report auditors.
Members of the Audit Committee undertake and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and ongoing training asrequired.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and The Audit Committee meets throughout the year and its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each performance, business model and strategy member of the Audit Committee may require reports on matters the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial of interest in addition to the regular items.
The Audit Committee reporting standards and relevant financial and governance met three times during the year and members attendance at the reporting requirements and guidelines, including the meetings is set out in the table below.
recently published European Securities and Markets Authority Guidelines on Alternative Performance MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Measures which apply to all publications of regulated 1 NAME ATTENDANCE information from 3 July 2016 John Bason 3 of 3 discussing the critical accounting policies and use of Carol Arrowsmith 3 of 3 assumptions and estimates, as noted in section B of the 2 Stefan Bomhard 1 of 1 accounting policies on page 96 of this Annual Report, and Susan Murray 3 of 3 concluding that the estimates, judgements and assumptions used were reasonable based on the information available Don Robert 3 of 3 and had been used appropriately in applying the Companys 3 Sir Ian Robinson 1 of 1 accounting policies.
This included, for example, the Nelson Silva 3 of 3 consideration of any goodwill impairment assessments Ireena Vittal 3 of 3 and how these were addressed 1.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings each director was eligible toattend.
Appointed to the Board on 5 May2016.
Stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 4 February2016.
46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the material areas in which significant judgements have been are important.
The Committee discussed with management applied, namely: the key judgements made, in particular, the policy efforts being led by the EU and OECD which may have a material considering the nature and quantum of the purchasing impact on the taxation of all international businesses, income earned by the Group during the financial year.
It including relevant legal advice.
The external auditor also also assessed the extent to which the amounts recognised reports on all material provisions to the Committee required estimation and reviewed the recoverability of amounts accrued at the year end with reference to aged Going Concern and the Viability Statement analyses and subsequent cash receipts.
Nothing arose OTHER MATTERS during the course of this review to indicate that anything In addition to its key role in the financial reporting process, but limited judgement was required, or that purchasing the Audit Committee also considered the following as well as income had not been accounted for in accordance with developments in regulation, such as in relation to the the Groups accounting policies retendering of audit services, notedbelow: the level of provisioning for liabilities including tax where management, accounting and legal judgements NOV MAY SEPT ITEMS DISCUSSED 2015 2016 2016 INTERNAL AUDIT approval of the Groups internal audit plan and risk controls and the review of internal audit activity reports and updates, together with the continued rollout of key financial controls EXTERNAL AUDIT audit report on interim results approval and review of proposed audit plan and procedures review of auditor effectiveness independence following KPMG LLPs second year as external auditor 1 agreement of external auditor fees for 2016-2017 review of the policy and update of the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor assessment of the deployment of the audit plan OTHER MATTERS litigation and contingent liabilities operation of the Groups Speak Up whistleblowing policy country and theme specific audit matters the RGC structure and the outputs from the committee meetings tax matters, including provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax asset recognition as well as compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations terms of reference: annual review 1.
A threeyear fee was agreed as part of the audit retender noted on page 48 and in the coming year the Committee will review and determine futurefees.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 47 Governance and Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued EXTERNAL AUDIT accordingly, to exclude such services.
Therefore, the external auditor should be excluded from providing the Company with Last year, the Committee reported that EU legislation to general consultancy and all other non-audit services, unless reform the statutory audit market was expected to apply to there is no other competent and available provider.
Engagements Public Interest Entities PIEs including the Company from for non-audit services that are not prohibited are subject to mid June 2016.
The government has now published The formal approval by the Audit Committee based on the level of Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Regulations fees involved.
Non-audit services that are pre-approved are 2016 the Regulations which implement the Directive and make either routine in nature with a fee that is not significant in legislative provisions to apply the directly applicable Regulation the context of the audit or are audit relatedservices.
The Regulation has resulted in changes to the CA 2006 and to the Code with any changes being reflected in this Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external years Report.
Amongst other things, the Company is required to auditor has traditionally undertaken some due diligence reviews rotate its auditors every 10 years, to give advance notice of any and other pieces of non-audit work.
The provision of non-audit tendering plans and to cap the non-audit fees paid to auditors services within such constraints and the agreed policy is at 70% of the threeyear average audit fees at Group level, assessed on a case by case basis so that the best placed adviser is with there being a prohibition on the provision of certain retained.
Principal non-audit services provided by KPMG LLP non-audit services.
and approved by the Audit Committee during the year ended 30September 2016 primarily comprised assistance on The Company last retendered its external audit appointment tax related services and other services including share in 2013-2014 when KPMG LLP was appointed as the auditor.
Under the terms of the new legislation and in line with the Code, the Company is required to put its external audit process out to During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed KPMG LLPs tender again in 2023-2024.
The Company has in force a policy fees for its services performed to 30 September 2016 which had on non-audit fees which it reviews annually and discloses the been set for three years from appointment, its effectiveness and ratio of audit to non-audit fees paid in each financial year and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons will monitor non-audit fees to ensure that they remain within for any variation from the plan.
The review included a formal the parameters of the Regulation.
evaluation process involving the use of questionnaires completed by finance teams around the business.
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy The Audit Committee also considered the robustness of the on external audit.
The Audit Committee reserves oversight 2016 audit and the degree to which KPMG LLP was able to responsibility for monitoring the auditors independence, assess key accounting and audit judgements and the content of objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional and the management letter issued by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee is responsible Committee concluded that both the audit and the audit process for the retendering selection process and recommends the were effective.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys external auditor, and considers the risks associated with its The total fees paid to KPMG LLP in the year ended withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
30September 2016 were 5.1 million of which 0.6 million The Audit Committee also reviews and sets the terms, areas of related to non-audit work 2015: 5.2 million of which responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external 0.7 million related to non-audit work.
Further disclosure of auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for the the non-audit fees paid during the year can be found in note 2 forthcoming year, together with the associated fee proposal to the consolidated financial statements on page 106. and cost effectiveness of the audit: the external auditors To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team rotate independence: any major issues which arise during the course off the Companys audit.
To safeguard the independence of of the audit and their resolution: key accounting and audit the Companys external auditor and the integrity of the audit judgements: the level of errors identified during the audit: the process, the recruitment of senior employees from the recommendations made to management by the auditor and Companys auditor is not permitted for a period of at least managements response: and the auditors overall performance.
two years after they cease to be involved in the provision of The Audit Committee also ensures that key partners within the services to theCompany.
external auditor are rotated from time to time in accordance with applicable legislation.
The current key partner of the Companys external auditor is Anthony Sykes.
Mr Sykes has held this position since KPMG LLP was appointed as the Companys external auditor in 2014.
The Audit Committee monitors the extent of non-audit work which the external auditor can perform, to ensure that the provision of those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external auditor falls within the agreed policy and does not impair its objectivity or independence.
Following the change of external auditor in 2014, the Audit Committee agreed that Deloitte LLP should continue to provide tax services to the Group and has amended its policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor 48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR Each year, the Audit Committee critically reviews its own performance and considers where improvements can be made There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys and in so doing it considers, amongst other things, those matters choice of external auditor and in making its recommendation discussed by the Audit Committee, suchas: on the reappointment of KPMG LLP, the Committee took into account, amongst other matters, the tenure, objectivity and whether the membership of the Committee meets the independence of KPMG LLP and its continuing effectiveness requirements of the Code and cost as well as the availability of firms within the wider audit whether the Committees terms of reference are appropriate market.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue for the particular circumstances of the Company and comply as auditor of the Company.
Separate resolutions proposing with prevailing legislation and best practice KPMGLLPs reappointment and determination of its whether the number and length of time of Committee remuneration by the Audit Committee will be proposed meetings are sufficient to meet the role and responsibilities at the 2017 AGM.
of the Committee and coincide with key dates within the DISCLOSURE OF RELEVANT AUDIT INFORMATION financial reporting and auditcycle The directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there This is underpinned by the annual evaluation of the Board is no relevant audit information of which KPMG LLP is unaware and its committees.
This year, in accordance with the Code, an and each director has taken all the steps that ought to have been external evaluation was conducted by ECL and more details taken as a director to be aware of any relevant audit information of this can be found on page43.
and to establish that KPMG LLP is aware of that information.
INTERNAL AUDIT OUR STANDARDS The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the The Company remains committed to the highest standards Groups internal audit function and its relationship with the of business conduct and expects all of its employees to act external auditor, including internal audit resources, plans and accordingly.
The Groups Speak Up policy an extension of the performance as well as the degree to which the function is free Code of Ethics incorporated within the Groups Code of Business of management restrictions.
Throughout the year, the Audit Conduct CBC which is available in 40 languages sets out Committee reviewed the internal audit functions plans and arrangements for the receipt, in confidence, of complaints on its achievements against those plans.
The Audit Committee accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal related matters which would, as appropriate, be reported to the audit function and the adequacy of managements response Audit Committee.
Speak Up is a standard review item on all to matters raised, including the time taken to resolve any internal audit work programmes.
The CBC and Code of Ethics are such matters.
available on the Companys website at www.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Audit Committee also receives updates on any allegations The Audit Committee also reviews the integrity of material of bribery and fraud in the business at every meeting, with financial statements made by the Company.
The Audit individual updates being given to the Audit Committee, as Committee monitors and conducts a robust review of the needed, in more serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting activities.
The Groups theft and anti-fraud policies are a subset policies and practices and compliance controls including key of the CBC, which does not tolerate any activity involving fraud, financial controls as well as the Companys statements on dishonesty or deception.
These policies, for which the Audit internal control before they are agreed by the Board for each Committee retains overall responsibility, set out how allegations years Annual Report.
The Board retains overall responsibility of fraud or bribery are dealt with, such as by the local human for internal control and the identification and management of resources or finance team, and the frequency of local reporting business risk.
The key features of the Groups internal control that feeds into the regular updates, which are presented to the and risk management systems that ensure the accuracy and Audit Committee.
Reporting of these matters to the Audit reliability of financial reporting include clearly defined lines Committee is managed and overseen by the internal audit of accountability and delegation of authority, policies and function.
The Speak Up policy operates when the complaint is procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, received through the whistleblowing channel and that policy will preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project redirect the alleged fraud or bribery for investigation at the most governance and information security and the Groups CBC.
appropriate level of the organisation which may, for example, be Theinternal audit function is involved in the assessment of the by a member of the local human resources team or, on occasion, quality of risk management and internal control and helps to the Audit Committeeitself.
promote and further develop effective risk management within the business.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist expertise continue to be outsourced by the Director of Group Internal Audit as appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviews internal audit reports and considers the effectiveness of thefunction.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 49 Governance and Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued In a Group where local management have considerable CONTROL ENVIRONMENT autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a wellWhilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The delegated responsibility for the operation of the internal control directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for and risk management programme to the Executive Board.
risk management, the Groups systems of internal control, for The detailed review of internal control has been delegated to reviewing the effectiveness of those controls and for ensuring the Audit Committee.
The management of each business is that an appropriate culture has been embedded throughout the responsible for internal control and risk management within organisation.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the its own business and for ensuring compliance with the Groups FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and policies and procedures.
Each business has appointed a risk Related Financial Business Reporting 2014, and in the Code champion whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure itself, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, compliance by local management with the Groups risk managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This management and internal control programme.
The internal process has been in place for the full financial year and up to and external independent auditors have reviewed the overall the date on which the financial statements wereapproved.
approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these internal controlrequirements.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, CONTROL PROCEDURES safeguard the Groups assets against material loss, fairly report The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an the Groups performance and position, and to ensure compliance annual basis and approves Group budgets and strategies in light with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice including of these.
Control is exercised at Group, regional and business that related to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The level through the Groups Management and Performance systems provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against framework as well as through the RGCs and monthly material misstatement or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, Board to deal with .
forecasts and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group businesses by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups and Group Chief OperatingOfficers.
business is given on pages 27 to 29.
Risk assessment and evaluation are an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process, Each business documents the strategic objectives and the which is an integral part of the annual business cycle and is also effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
As a robust process adopted to support the Viability Statement.
part of the review, each significant business and function has Each of the Groups businesses is required to identify and been required to identify and document each substantial risk, document major risks facing their business and appropriate together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, mitigating activities and controls, and to monitor and report to monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these management on the effectiveness of these controls on a biannual controls.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual basis.
These reports, together with reports on internal control confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to and departures, if any, from established Group procedures report any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
prepared by both the internal and external auditors, are Summarised results have been presented to senior management reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the Audit including to the members of the Executive Board and to Committee.
Group companies also submit biannual risk and the Board.
internal control assurance letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control and risk management issues, with comments These processes have been in place throughout the financial on the control environment within their operations.
The Group year ended 30 September 2016 and have continued to the date Finance Director summarises these submissions for the Audit of this Report.
Taken together, these processes and the reports Committee, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports they generate, which are considered by the Audit Committee, to the Board on any matters that have arisen from the Audit constitute a robust assessment of key risks and the internal Committees review of the way in which risk management controls that exist, and are designed to mitigate these risks.
The and internal control processes have been applied.
Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year under review and a summary of the principal control structures and processes in place across the Group is set out in thisReport.
50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval of client contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions, client contracts and major capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further information regarding environmental and ethical matters is available on pages 30 to 33.
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have on the short and long term value of the Company.
The external auditor of the Company and the Director of Group Internal Audit attend Audit Committee meetings and receive its papers.
The Audit Committee members meet regularly with the external auditor and with the Director of Group Internal Audit, without the presence of executivemanagement.
There were no changes to the Companys internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30September 2016 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Companys internal control over financialreporting.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 51
