CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD COMPOSITION Dear Shareholder, In order that it may provide the best possible form of leadership for I am pleased to present Computacenters Corporate Governance the Group, it is critical that the Board has the right composition to be report for the year ended 31 December 2016. effective in discharging its duties to the shareholders of the Company.
This includes having the right balance of skills and experience, The Board of Computacenter supports and is committed to the ensuring that all of the Directors have a good working knowledge of principles of Corporate Governance as set out in the 2014 UK the Groups business, and also that the Board retains its independence Corporate Governance Code the Code, which has applied to and objectivity.
I am of the view that all three of these factors will be the Group during the reporting period.
It believes that effective enhanced by the appointment of Ros Rivaz to the Computacenter governance practices are fundamental in underpinning the Groups plc Board.
We were very pleased to welcome her onto the Board with ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
The Code is published effect from 11 November 2016.
Her significant operational expertise in by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and can be found at large enterprises complements the skills of our other Board members.
Up until June 2016, Ros was a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Rexam plc.
She also served as the This Corporate Governance report outlines and explains the Groups Chief Operating Officer for Smith & Nephew plc until 2014 and has held governance policies and practices, and sets out how the Code has senior management positions in global companies in the areas of been applied during the year ended 31 December 2016.
It aims to supply chain management, logistics, manufacturing, IT, procurement assist our shareholders in understanding the Groups approach to and systems, including at Diageo, ICI, ExxonMobil, Tate & Lyle and Corporate Governance.
As a company listed on the main market of Premier Foods.
On her appointment, each of our four independent the London Stock Exchange, Computacenter is required by relevant Non-Executive Directors have been in their role for less than four regulation to review its practices against the provisions set out years.
Ros will bring an objectivity and fresh perspective on both in the Code.
A statement of its compliance with the Code can be new, and existing, business that the Board considers at its meetings, found on page 58 of this report.
I would ask shareholders to note and will complement the continuity of service and knowledge of the that, following the appointment of Ros Rivaz to the Board as an Company brought by the remaining members of the Board.
additional Independent Non-Executive Director on 11 November 2016, membership of the Computacenter plc Board was, at 31 December In accordance with the Companys procedure for new Directors, Ros 2016, compliant with provision B1.2 of the Code, which requires at least has received a full induction which was tailored to her knowledge half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be Independent Nonand previous experience.
This included meetings with the Chairmen Executive Directors.
of the Board and its Committees, the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director FD.
Given Ros appointment to the The FRC published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code in 2016 Remuneration Committee, she was provided with a detailed briefing the New Code, which will apply to Computacenter plc from 1 January of Executive Remuneration by the Groups Human Resources Director.
The Board anticipates that the Company will be in full Further, with her appointment to the Audit Committee, she also compliance with the New Code from 1 January 2017 onwards.
received presentations from a number of the Groups Financial Senior Management team.
STRATEGY The Board is collectively responsible for providing leadership to, and promoting the success of, the Group, within a framework of appropriate controls that enable risk to be assessed and appropriately managed.
It is also responsible for implementing the business model set out and explained on pages 7 to 9 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
It is essential for the Board to ensure that the Group has the right strategy in place to drive shareholder value, and to provide appropriate levels of support and challenge to the Executive Management Team.
The development of the Groups strategy continues to be discussed at every Board meeting, with an additional, Greg Lock annual, day-long session dedicated to receiving strategy-related Non-Executive Chairman presentations from Senior Management.
The Board of Computacenter believes that effective governance practices are crucial in underpinning the Companys ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
56 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS DIVERSITY In accordance with the requirements of the Code, an external The Board recognises the benefits that diverse skills, experience and evaluation of the Board and its Committees has now taken place points of view can bring to an organisation, and how it may assist for the reporting period.
Further details of the process carried out the decision-making ability of the Board, thereby increasing its and the findings of the evaluation can be found on page 59 to 60 of effectiveness.
Whilst the Board continues to recognise and monitor this report.
After careful consideration of its findings, I am satisfied the continuing debate around possible future legislation in this area, that the Board continues to function effectively and that its current appointments to the Board will continue to remain primarily based constitution and range of skills are appropriate to ensure that the on merit.
As at 31 December 2016, the Computacenter Board had long-term interests of the Group and the Companys shareholders two female Non-Executive Directors, Regine Stachelhaus and Ros are protected.
The Board continues to focus at length on the issue of Rivaz, representing 22.2 per cent of the total Board membership.
This succession planning, which remains particularly important given the represents an increase from 12.5 per cent as at 31 December 2015. length of tenure of the current Executive Management team.
Prior to the date of this report, the Board reviewed the succession planning SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT arrangements in place for both the Executive and Non-Executive This Corporate Governance report is intended to give shareholders an Directors.
It also received a presentation from the Group HR Director understanding of the Groups corporate governance arrangements on how internal talent within the Group immediately below Board level and how they operated during the 2016 financial year.
The Board is managed and developed appropriately in the long-term interests of remains committed to communicating with our shareholders and, the Group.
where appropriate, submitting its views and considerations for consultation and feedback.
Further detail regarding this engagement I remain satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the with our shareholders can be found on page 62 of this report.
Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles at Board and Committee level as currently required by the Company.
In accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
I will continue to assess these judgements to ensure that they remain the case on an ongoing basis.
Greg Lock GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Non-Executive Chairman As it is entitled to do under the Companys Articles of Association, the Board delegates a number of its responsibilities to Committees so 13 March 2017 that it may carry out its functions effectively.
A diagram of the Board governance structure is set out in this report on this page.
As part of its ongoing review of the Groups governance procedures and framework, the terms of reference for each of these Committees Board Committees was reviewed by the Board, and a number of the Groups policies were reviewed and also amended during the year.
The detail and format of information provided to the Board by Management continues to develop.
Audit Committee BOARD VISITS To assist in developing and updating the knowledge of the Directors of Nomination Committee Board the Groups business operations, visits to our Group offices overseas are organised for the Board on a regular basis.
During the year, the Board held a meeting at the Groups office in Paris, France, where it received presentations from the French Managing Director and Remuneration Committee senior members of his team.
This focused on the ongoing delivery of a recovery plan by the French business, and its shift towards becoming more Services-led.
57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Secretary, upon request.
The composition of each Committee as at 31 Computacenter is required, under the Listing Rules and Disclosure December 2016 appears on pages 68 to 90 following this report, as do and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, to report to its reports from the Chairman of each Committee setting out the main shareholders on its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance responsibilities of their respective Committee and its main activities Code, as revised in September 2014.
As such, the Board confirms that, during the year.
The Company arranges insurance cover in respect except where indicated below, the Company has complied with each of legal action against the Directors and, to the extent allowed by of the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
legislation, the Company has issued an indemnity to each Director against claims brought by third parties.
1.2: Except for smaller companies, at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors Division of responsibilities determined by the Board to be independent.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO are separate and their responsibilities are clearly set out in writing, The Board acknowledges that the Company was not in compliance reviewed annually and agreed by the Board.
They are available for with paragraph B.
1.2 of the Code for the period from 1 January 2016 inspection on the Companys website at www.
to 11 November 2016 the Non-Compliant Period, which was the In summary, the Chairmans role is to lead and manage the Board, date of appointment of Ros Rivaz as an independent Non-Executive and to play a role in facilitating the discussion of the Groups strategy Director of the Board.
During the Non-Compliant Period, the founders by the Board.
The Chairman actively encourages contribution from of the Company, Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden, were Non-Executive all Directors and is responsible for ensuring that constructive Directors, but were not considered independent under the Code, interaction is ongoing between the individual members of the Board.
due to their long tenure, substantial shareholding in the Company The Chairman is also responsible for setting the Boards agenda and and their previously held executive positions with the Company.
As ensuring that sufficient time is available for discussion of all agenda a result of feedback from the Board, it remained clear during this items, and in particular, strategic issues.
time that the contribution being made by these two Directors to the Board, continued to be viewed as vital, particularly in the area of The CEO, in turn, is responsible for the day-to-day management of supporting and challenging strategy related proposals put forward by the Groups operational activities and for the proper execution of Management.
As the term of these two Non-Executive Directors is over strategy, as set by the Board.
There is no dominant individual or group six years, their continued appointment was in any event subject to of individuals on the Board influencing its collective decision-making particularly rigorous review, both by the Nomination Committee and ability and the Board is comfortable that each of the Directors makes the Board as a whole, taking into account the need to progressively a valuable contribution to the Board.
refresh the Board from time to time.
The Company is pleased to report that, from 11 November 2016 to 31 December 2016, it was compliant Senior Independent Director with each of the provisions of the Code, and it anticipates being so for Philip Yea is the Senior Independent Director.
In this role, Philip acts as the 2017 reporting period.
a sounding board for the Chairman, and serves as an intermediary between the Chairman and other Directors, where necessary.
He LEADERSHIP is available to take representations from both institutional and The role of the Board individual shareholders who do not want to raise their issue with the The Board is responsible for the management and performance of, Chairman or where they feel that contact with him is not appropriate and providing effective leadership to, the Group.
It plays a key role in the circumstances.
In his role as the Senior Independent Director, in discussing, reviewing and approving the strategic objectives of Philip also leads the appraisal of the Chairmans performance annually the Group, and through the review of business plans and budgets in consultation with the other Non-Executive Directors, without submitted by the Executive Directors and Senior Management, is the Chairman being present.
The feedback from this appraisal is additionally responsible for ensuring that adequate resources discussed at a subsequent meeting of the Board.
are in place to meet and deliver these aims.
The Board reviews the performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met twice throughout the against the targets set for the delivery of these agreed objectives, year without the Executive Directors being present.
including a monthly review of the financial performance of each of the Groups Country Units.
Additionally, the Board has the powers and Key activities of the Board during the year duties conferred upon it by the relevant laws of England and Wales and The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year, and its our Articles of Association.
There is a documented schedule of Matters schedule ensures that all necessary matters are considered by it Reserved for the Board which includes the consideration and approval during its annual cycle of meetings.
of, amongst other things, acquisitions, major capital expenditure, Group strategy and budgets, the Groups Financial Statements and In 2016, the Board considered the following: its Dividend Policy.
This schedule was reviewed and updated during Terms of Reference for each of its Committees: the course of 2016, and is reviewed on an annual basis as a standing Annual and Interim Reports: Board agenda item.
This schedule can be found on our website at Reports from the Committee Chairmen on the key activities of www.
the Board Committees: The annual budget and three-year plan: The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year to deal The Viability Statement: with the standing items on its agenda, including reviewing and Acquisition and disposal opportunities: discussing any information provided to it by Senior Management.
Significant new Managed Services bids: The Board collectively views this as sufficient to discharge its duties Strategic planning and execution by Management: effectively.
Day-to-day management and operational activities are The performance of the Group and Management: and delegated to a duly authorised Group Executive Committee including, Succession planning.
amongst others, the Executive Directors, Group Chief Operating Officer and Group Chief Commercial Officer.
Other Board level matters EFFECTIVENESS The Composition of the Board are delegated to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The membership of the Board as at 31 December 2016 is set out on Committees, details of which can be found at pages 68 to 90.
The pages 54 and 55, and on that date included seven Non-Executive Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained from the Directors and two Executive Directors.
The attendance of the Directors Companys website, www.
com, or from the Company 58 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 at Board and Committee meetings is additionally set out on pages 54, organisations, provided the time commitment does not conflict 55, 68, 73 and 82 of this Annual Report.
with the Directors duties to the Company, since such appointments should broaden their experience.
The Board would not agree to a The Board has considered the independence of each Director, taking full time Executive Director taking on more than one Non-Executive into account the guidance provided by the Code.
The Chairman, Greg Directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the Chairmanship of such a Lock, was considered by the Board to meet the independence criteria company and the appointment to such positions would be subject set out in the Code on appointment, and each of Minnow Powell, Ros to the approval of the Board.
For the avoidance of doubt, no such Rivaz, Regine Stachelhaus and Philip Yea are considered by the Board positions have been taken by the Executive Directors.
MJ Norris is a to be independent in their character and judgement.
Director and of, and has a material interest in, the private company Triage Services Limited.
Appointments to, and development of, the Board The Companys Nomination Committee leads the process for Board Information and support appointments.
Further detail on the role, membership and work of the All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance of each of Committee during the year is set out on page 73. the Board and Committee meetings.
This includes detailed briefings on all matters, to enable Directors to discharge their duties effectively The Non-Executive Directors have all been appointed for three-year when considering a matter and reaching a decision on it.
terms with continued appointment, as a Non-Executive Director of the Company, subject to election by the Companys shareholders at A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to obtain the AGM of the Company, and to re-election at any subsequent AGM at independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where which either the Articles require, or the Board resolves, that they stand they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties, and for re-election.
judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Board Committees are provided The Board has resolved to apply Provision B.
7.1 of the Financial with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016, whereby all Directors will be subject to annual election at the 2017 AGM, and Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the expects to do so in subsequent years.
If the shareholders do not running of the Company or a proposed action, their concerns will be elect or re-elect a Director, or a Director is retired from office under recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation, a Non-Executive Director the Articles, the appointment shall terminate automatically, with would be required to provide a written statement to the Chairman, for immediate effect and without compensation.
circulation to the Board, if they were to have any such concerns.
Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive induction The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all programme organised by the Company Secretary, tailored to their corporate governance matters and provides advice to the Chairman specific background and requirements.
The induction process for Ros of the Board to ensure that all Board procedures are followed.
All Rivaz is set out in the Chairmans introduction on page 56.
New Directors Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company receive an induction pack which contains information on the Groups Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary business, its structure and operations, Board procedures, corporate is a matter requiring Board approval.
governance related matters and details regarding Directors duties and responsibilities.
All new Directors are introduced to the Groups Executive Evaluation Management team.
New Directors are required to avail themselves of Each year the Board, as required by the Code, carries out an evaluation opportunities to meet major shareholders.
The Chairman regularly of its own effectiveness.
During the period from December 2016 to liaises with each Director to discuss and agree their training and January 2017, an external evaluation of the Board and each of its development needs.
The Board is confident that all of its members have Committees performance was carried out by Independent Audit the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required Limited for the financial reporting period.
The results were presented of a Director of a listed company.
to the Board in February 2017 and an action plan drawn up against which progress will be monitored regularly.
Commitment The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment set out the The format of the review was a series of specifically tailored online expected time commitment which will be required by the Company to questionnaires provided by Independent Audit Limited, for the Board execute their duties to a satisfactory level.
Although the nature of the and each of its Committees.
The Chairmen of the Board and each of its roles makes it very difficult to be specific about the maximum time Committees were given the opportunity to review and shape both the commitment, a commitment of up to two days per month, including questionnaires and the list of non-Board respondents to make best attendance at and preparations for regular Board meetings is expected.
Independent Audit Limited had no connection with In certain circumstances, for instance when the Company is engaged in the Company beyond this evaluation.
The questionnaire responses acquisitions, restructuring or other corporate transactions, there may were collated and analysed before inclusion into a report for the be the need to hold further Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors Boards consideration.
This report was presented to the Board by are expected to attend these where possible.
Independent Audit Limited who led a discussion on the key findings and the implications for the future development of the Board.
Externally, there has been no increase in the other significant commitments of the Chairman of the Company during the year which The review looked at key areas of responsibility including strategy, would impact the time he has to fulfil the role.
In light of the external decision making, composition and dynamics, leadership and talent Board Evaluation completed for 2016, the Board is satisfied that each development and succession planning.
The Board also reviewed of the Directors is able to allocate sufficient time to the Company the balance of skills and diversity.
The evaluation found there to to discharge his her responsibilities effectively.
The terms and be open and constructive dialogue between Board members and conditions of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors are a sound and challenging relationship between Non-Executive and available for inspection both at the Companys registered office and, Executive Directors.
The Board are satisfied that there is a clearly on an annual basis, at the Companys AGM.
articulated strategy and a good process for managing risk.
Despite the encouragingly high scores which were evident, the Directors In appropriate circumstances, the Board may authorise the Executive concluded that improvements could be made in three key areas Directors to take Non-Executive positions in other companies and of performance.
59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board will increase its efforts to understand the competition and the needs and wants of customers so as to be sure that there is a strong and effective level of challenge by the Non-Executive Directors in the areas of strategy, development and investment, and operational and financial performance.
The Company will also improve the presentation of information to the Board members which, at times, was excessively detailed and would benefit from sharper description and summarisation.
The Board also concluded that it would benefit from even more in-depth review and analysis of our leadership development and talent management programmes.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Philip Yea, carried out a review of the Chairmans performance with input from the remaining Non-Executive Directors, with the feedback provided then discussed formally at the following meeting of the Board.
Re-election Whilst the Companys Articles of Association require a Director to be subject to election at the first AGM following his or her appointment and thereafter every third year, the Board has decided that, in accordance with the Code, all Directors on the Board, should be subject to election or re-election at the Companys next AGM on 4 May 2017.
All Directors will then be subject to election or re-election at each AGM thereafter.
ACCOUNTABILITY Financial and business reporting The Directors of the Company are required to include the following in this report under the Code.
Please see: page 91 for the Boards statement on the Annual Report and Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable and providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: page 66 for the statement on the status of the Company and the Group as a going concern: the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53 for an explanation of the Groups business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group: and pages 22 to 25 for confirmation that the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer-term perspective than the 12 months required by its Going Concern statement requirement.
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Groups current position over a period of three years from the balance sheet date of this Annual Report and Accounts, 31 December 2016.
This period was selected as an appropriate timeframe for the following reasons: the Groups rolling strategic review, as considered by the Board, covers a three-year period: the period is aligned to the length of the Groups Managed Services contracts, which are typically three to five years in duration: the short lifecycle and constantly evolving nature of the technology industry lends itself to a period not materially longer than three years: and the macroeconomic and political environment following the Referendum on leaving the European Union EU introduces uncertainty into a forecasting period longer than three years.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty involved we believe that a three-year period presents readers of the Annual Report and Accounts with a reasonable degree of confidence while still providing a longerterm perspective.
The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a three-year business plan consisting of the detailed bottom-up financial target for the current year 2017, and two further years 2018 and 2019 of forecast information driven by top-down assumptions overlaid on the detailed target year.
The three-year plan was last considered and approved by the Board on 13 December 2016.
This three-year business plan along with the current position and prospects and the Groups strategy are subject to sensitivity analysis which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the forecast.
The forecast cash flows from the three-year plan are aggregated with the current position to provide a total three-year headroom operating envelope against which the total impact of potential risks and uncertainties can be assessed.
In the absence of external debt within the Group, access to available uncommitted finance facilities, ability to raise new finance in most foreseeable market conditions and the ability to restrict dividend payments as an instrument of last resort, were also considered.
Impact of risks The potential impact of the risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 22 to 25 of the Annual Report and Accounts, was then applied to the outcome of the sensitised three-year business plan.
This assessment included only those risks and uncertainties that would threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity over the assessment period and were considered as severe, but reasonable, scenarios and included any assessment of how the risks were managed and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions should the principal risks or uncertainties materialise either individually or, where a reasonable scenario could suggest, in unison.
Where appropriate, a sensitivity analysis is also carried out to evaluate the potential impact of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties actually occurring.
The combined effect of the potential occurrence of several of the most impactful risks and uncertainties is then compared to the headroom envelope generated throughout the three-year plan to assess whether the business is judged to be able to continue in operation.
Conclusion Based on the period and assessment above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meets its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to 31 December 2019.
60 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Risk management Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks that proposals for capital expenditure are properly reviewed and facing the Group, including those that threaten its business model, authorised.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Please refer to pages approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject to 22 to 25 for further information on the Groups principal risks and approval by the Board, and Board input and approval is sought for all uncertainties, including how they are being managed and mitigated.
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing the risks Planning and reporting processes faced by the Group lies with Executive and Senior Management.
A A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated by Senior comprehensive risk management programme has been developed Management annually and reviewed by the Board.
A comprehensive and is monitored by the Group Risk Committee, the members of which budgetary process is completed annually and is subject to the include Senior Operational Managers across the Group, the Group approval of the Board.
Performance is monitored through a rigorous Finance Director and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk.
The and detailed financial and management reporting system, by which Group Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
monthly results are reviewed against budgets and agreed targets for the period which, additionally, are compared to historic data The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, through the Audit as deemed appropriate, such as for the previous year.
The results Committee, reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Groups and explanations for variances are regularly reported to the Board.
The Board receives regular reports from Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
the Group Risk Committee and periodically reviews the strategic risks faced by the Group and key mitigation plans.
Management and specialists within the Finance Department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial Through a programme of assessment, appropriate measures and records and processes that ensure financial information is relevant, systems of control are maintained and, where necessary, developed reliable, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and and implemented.
Detailed business interruption contingency distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A plans are in place for all key sites and these are regularly tested, review of the Consolidated Financial Statements is completed by in accordance with an agreed schedule.
Management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published Internal control by the Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and ensuring that the controls are Centralised treasury function robust and effective in enabling risks to be appropriately assessed The Board has established, and reviews regularly, key treasury and managed.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to policies over matters such as counterparty exposure, borrowing manage risks, safeguard the Groups assets and ensure the reliability arrangements and foreign exchange exposure management.
The of information used both within the business and for publication.
management of liquidity and borrowing facilities for customer This system of control is designed to reduce to a level consistent with specific requirements, ongoing capital expenditure and working the Boards risk appetite, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure capital of the business are all undertaken by the Group Treasury to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not Function which reports to the Group Finance Director, with regular absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reporting to the Audit Committee.
Management oversight has been further enhanced this financial reporting period with the standing The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the up of the Group Treasury Committee which is responsible for the systems of internal control including financial, operational and ongoing review of treasury policy and strategy and recommending compliance controls and risk management systems.
It is of the any changes to the stated policy which will be presented for Board opinion that the Group has complied with the internal control approval.
The Committee is also responsible for approving any requirements of the Code throughout the year.
Where material Treasury activities on an ad hoc basis which are not covered by the weaknesses or opportunities for improvement are identified, changes existing treasury policy documents or are matters reserved for the are implemented and monitored.
Board alongside monitoring hedging activities for effectiveness.
The Committee comprises of the Group Finance Director who also acts as All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate and Chairman of the Committee, the Group Financial Controller, the Group manage significant risks faced by the Group continuously.
The key Head of Financial Reporting and the Group Head of Tax and Treasury.
elements of the Groups controls are detailed below.
Quality and integrity of staff Responsibilities and authority structure Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic decisions employees are of a suitable calibre.
Management continuously and there is a written schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
monitors training requirements, and ongoing appraisal procedures The Group Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis to discuss are in place, to ensure that required standards are maintained across day-to-day operational matters and, with the implementation of the Group.
Resource requirements are identified by managers and the Group Operating Model now having taken place across all of the reviewed by Senior Management.
Groups main operating entities, ultimate authority and responsibility for operational governance sits at Group level.
Compliance policies The Group has in place a number of compliance policies which The Group operates defined authorisation and approval processes are applied, including those relating to Business Ethics and Antithroughout all of its operations.
Access controls continue to improve bribery.
Any breach of these policies by an employee is considered a where processes have been automated to secure data.
Management disciplinary matter and is dealt with accordingly.
The internal control information systems have been developed to identify risks and to regime is supported by the operation of a Whistleblowing reporting enable assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of internal function, which is now operated by an external independent third control.
Accountability is reinforced and further scrutiny of costs and party provider.
During the year, a new Compliance Committee was revenues encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer formed to supervise compliance related activity and issues across satisfaction and profitability.
the Group and to support the Risk Committee in that regard.
61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee and the Auditor Constructive use of General Meetings For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code All of the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the opportunity provisions relating to the Audit Committee, Group Auditor, and Internal of welcoming individual shareholders and other investors to Audit, please refer to the Audit Committee on pages 68 to 72. communicate directly and address their questions.
In addition to mandatory information, a full, fair and balanced explanation of the Remuneration business of all general meetings is sent in advance to shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 90 explains the Resolutions at the Companys general meetings have been passed on work of the Remuneration Committee, and the level and components a show of hands and proxies for and against each resolution together of remuneration for the Directors.
The Company has included a revised with any abstentions are announced at such meetings, noted in Directors Remuneration Report, which will be put before shareholders the minutes, available on the Companys website and notified to the by way of a binding shareholder vote at the Companys 2017 AGM.
Relations with shareholders Annual General Meeting AGM The Board recognises and values the importance of meeting the The AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday 4 May 2017 at Companys shareholders to obtain their views and has established a Computacenter House, 100 Blackfriars Road, SE1 8HL.
The AGM programme to communicate with shareholders, based on its financial notice of meeting sets out each of the resolutions being proposed.
This notice will shortly be available for download from www.
com, and will be mailed to shareholders if they have Dialogue with shareholders elected to receive hard copies.
The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the ownership of the Companys shares by the Companys corporate brokers who Compliance with DTR provide monthly reports on that ownership.
In addition, meetings The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, relating to the share are held with major shareholders following both the full-year and capital of the Company, can be found within the Directors report from half-year results.
Normally, these meetings are with the CEO and FD.
The whole Board is briefed on the outcome of these meetings and any issues raised are discussed.
It additionally receives feedback reports By order of the Board from the Groups investor relations firm, Tulchan Communications LLP, and the Companys corporate brokers, Investec plc and Credit Suisse.
Raymond Gray In addition, once a year, the Companys top 15 shareholders are Company Secretary invited to meet individually with the Chairman, Company Secretary and, on request, the Senior Independent Director to provide feedback 13 March 2017 on the Groups Management and raise other comments, albeit only a few shareholders take up this opportunity.
Specifically, at these meetings, the Companys strategy and corporate governance arrangements are discussed and feedback is invited on any areas of particular interest from the relevant shareholder.
These meetings are taking place in March and April 2017, in order to address any areas of discussion prior to the Companys next AGM.
Again, the Board will be briefed on the outcomes of these meetings.
Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders at any time and can be contacted through the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office address.
