CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT MAINTAINING BALANCE We operate in dynamic markets and the Board and its committees must adapt and evolve to ensure that they make an effective contribution.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER HIGHLIGHTS On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this years Nomination Committee Report.
DATE DETAILS OF CHANGE 1 October Sir Ian Robinson stepped down as SID It has been another busy year for the Committee with a number 2015 and was succeeded by Don Robert on the of changes being made to theBoard.
The appointments of Johnny Thomson, who took over from 1 December Johnny Thomson succeeded Dominic Dominic Blakemore as the Group Finance Director in December 2015 Blakemore as Group Finance Director.
last year, and of Stefan Bomhard who joined the Board as a On the same day, Andrew Martin stepped non-executive director in May this year, further strengthen the down as a director and as Group Chief capabilities of the Board.
Johnnys existing knowledge of the Operating Officer, Europe & Japan and business has been key in helping him to smoothly transition Dominic Blakemore was appointed from roles in our Latin American business to become Group Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe.
Finance Director, while Stefans extensive experience of the 4 February Sir Ian Robinson stepped down from global food, beverage and retail markets will be invaluable in 2016 the Board at the conclusion of the his role on the Board.
The process to appoint a new director takes time and requires 5 May Stefan Bomhard was appointed as a careful planning.
You can find more details of the practical 2016 non-executive director.
considerations and process behind the appointment of a 22 November The Company announced that Susan director on page 57.
2016 Murray will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM to Biographical details of the members of the Board who held office be held on 2February 2017.
Nelson Silva during the year and up to the date of this Report can be found on will succeed Susan as Chairman of the pages 38 to 40.
Corporate Responsibility Committee In the coming year, in consultation with the chairmen of the on the same day.
principal committees, we will continue to build on our work to date.
Our aim is to ensure that the Groups succession planning policy remains fit for purpose and evolves to maintain the right mix of strengths and experience on the Board, whether executive or non-executive, and to meet the ongoing strategic aims of the Group.
Paul Walsh Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 November 2016 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 55 Governance and Directors Report Nomination Committee Report continued SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent COMPOSITION procedure for the appointment of new directors and senior The Nomination Committee comprises Paul Walsh, Chairman, executives with due regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to Richard Cousins and all of the non-executive directors in office making an appointment, the Nomination Committee will at the date of this Report.
evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
experience and diversity on the Board and, in light of The Committee met twice during the year and members this evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and attendance is set out in the table below.
capabilities required, with a view to appointing the best placed individual for the role.
In identifying suitable MEETINGS ATTENDANCE candidates, the NominationCommittee: 1 NAME ATTENDANCE Paul Walsh 2 of 2 uses open advertising or the services of external advisers to Carol Arrowsmith 2 of 2 facilitate the search considers candidates from different genders and a wide range John Bason 2 of 2 2 of backgrounds Stefan Bomhard 1 of 1 considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria Richard Cousins 2 of 2 ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the Susan Murray 2 of 2 position, in light of other potentially significant commitments Don Robert 2 of 2 The Board continues to believe that gender based or other 3 Sir Ian Robinson 1 of 1 types of targets are inappropriate and that the blend of skills, Nelson Silva 2 of 2 knowledge and experience is of paramountimportance.
Ireena Vittal 2 of 2 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 1.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which The markets in which the Company operates are intrinsically each director was eligible to attend.
dynamic and the Board and its committees must therefore adapt 2.
Appointed to the Board on 5 May2016.
and evolve to ensure that they have the optimum composition to 3.
Stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 4 February2016.
make the most effective contribution to help the Company achieve its strategic goals.
OBJECTIVES During the year, the Committee together with the Board itself The Nomination Committees key objective is to review and continued to focus on succession planning for both executive monitor the Boards composition and to ensure that the Board and non-executive directors.
In doing so, it considered the tenure, comprises individuals with the right blend of skills, knowledge mix and diversity of skills and experience of existing Board and experience to maintain a high degree of effectiveness in members and those required of prospective Board members discharging its responsibilities.
in the context of the Groups medium and long term strategy.
RESPONSIBILITIES The Board uses the services of a number of executive search The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and firms as part of the external search process to identify potential composition of the Board and its committees and makes Board or senior management candidates.
As previously reported, recommendations with regard to any changes considered in 2014-2015, the Board retained the services of independent necessary in the identification and nomination of new directors, recruitment consultant, Egon Zehnder in its search for two the reappointment of existing directors and appointment of prospective non-executive directors.
Consequently, Ireena Vittal members to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles of and Nelson Silva were appointed to the Board on 16July 2015. the existing directors in office to ensure that there continues to be a balanced board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and During 2015-2016, the Board engaged Lygon Group in its diversity.
The Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of search for a new non-executive director and it was agreed that it the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace would be beneficial for the search for prospective non-executive and advises the Board on succession planning for executive candidates to centre on individuals with European experience.
director appointments, although the Board itself is responsible Lygon Group is an independent executive search firm which has for successiongenerally.
no other connection with theCompany.
The Nomination Committee has standing items that it The Committee worked closely with Lygon Group to agree the considers regularly under its terms of reference, for example, process, timetable and mandate for Lygon Group to ensure that the Committee reviews its own terms of reference annually, or prospective candidates satisfied the Committees brief.
Stefan as required, to reflect changes to the Code or as a result of Bomhard was identified by the Nomination Committee as part changes in regulations or bestpractice.
of the external search process conducted by Lygon Group and was subsequently recommended to the Board for appointment on the basis that he met the criteria required, including having sufficient time to discharge the requirements of the role.
56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUCCESSION PLANNING IN ACTION WHAT DOES ITINVOLVE?
although other directors may also be involved in the interview process depending on the role being filled.
For example, if the The process of recruiting an individual to join the Board takes director being recruited was intended to be the Chairman of time and if not managed properly can have a detrimental the Audit Committee, it would be appropriate for the existing impact on the performance of the Board and its committees.
Audit Committee Chairman and or the Group Finance From the initial planning stage where the need for a new Director to participate in interviews to ensure that the director is identified through to the new director joining the candidate had the requisite technical skills, knowledge Company may take a year or more and a well-established and and understanding to undertake thatrole.
carefully executed succession planning process is key.
The narrative which follows gives a flavour of the practical steps WHAT HAPPENS ONCE THE PREFERRED CANDIDATE involved in the recruitment of a new director where the HAS BEENSELECTED?
services of an external recruitment consultant are used Subject to the Committees recommendations to the Board, to help theCommittee.
the Board as a whole would then be involved in the decision When changes to Board membership are considered, to appoint a director.
an assessment is made of the existing qualities and Subject to formal Board approval, the individual is appointed competencies that already exist around the boardroom in the case of a non-executive director for an initial period table with a view to strengthening any areas that might be of three years, which may be extended up to a maximum of considered to be weaker and to support the priorities of nine years.
If appropriate, a directors potential conflicts the Company and its stakeholders.
of interest arising from pre-existing appointments are WHAT DO WE LOOK FOR IN A NEWDIRECTOR?
considered in the context of the time commitment required to carry out their role and responsibilities at Compass Generally, in view of the geographic spread of the Companys effectively.
All directors retire and offer themselves for businesses, current or previous experience at board or senior election and or re-election at every AGM of the Company level in a listed company or multinational and or complex and any new directors appointment is subject to shareholder organisation is required although not necessarily in the approval atthe first AGM following their appointment.
same type of business or sector, together with an ability to understand complex issues and to communicate clearly and HOW DOES THE NEW DIRECTOR LEARN ABOUT objectively.
Depending on the Companys strategic aims, the THE COMPANY?
candidate may also be required to possess bi or multilingual The Chairman of the Board is responsible for ensuring that skills and to have an understanding of another country, its the newly appointed director receives a tailored induction culture and way of conducting business.
A specific technical so that he or she is able to undertake his or her role and expertise qualification may also be necessary for example, if responsibilities on the Board and its committees effectively.
the new director is going to be appointed as the Chairman of Inductions are tailored to suit the needs and requirements of the Audit Committee.
Ongoing development needs and WHAT HAPPENS ONCE WE HAVE DRAWN UP training requirements are reviewed as necessary by the A SHORT LIST OF POTENTIALCANDIDATES?
Chairman of the Board and agreed with the new director.
More details of the Companys induction process can be As a general proposition, the Chairman, Group Chief found on page 42.
Executive and SID interview each prospective candidate COMING YEAR The Committee understands that planning for the future and having a succession planning policy designed to progressively bring new skills and different perspectives to the Board are key to maintaining an appropriate balance on the Board.
There is a wealth of talent within our organisation and, together with the Board, the Committee will continue to offer its support to coaching and mentoring development programmes for executive and senior managers in the Group to help mould and encourage the potential leaders of thefuture.
Paul Walsh Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 November 2016 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 57
