NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2016 Attendance Current Members Role record The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during 2016 and its work included the following: 1.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman Chairman of the Board 3 3 Board appointment 2.
Minnow Powell Non-Executive Director 3 3 At a meeting of the Nomination Committee on 11 February 2016, 3.
Ros Rivaz Non-Executive Director 0 0 it was agreed that the Committee should explore appointing an additional Independent Non-Executive Director in order to achieve 4.
Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director 3 3 compliance with provision B1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 5.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 3 3 and to provide additional succession resilience within the Board.
The Chairman undertook to develop a specification for the appointment All Nomination Committee meetings for 2016 took place before Ros Rivazs appointment that included consideration of international experience and diversity on 11 November 2016. of the Board.
The Nomination Committee then led the process to MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE search for, identify and nominate a new Independent Non-Executive The members of the Nomination Committee are the independent Director in 2016.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Further detail on the membership of the Committee and attendance at its meetings In advance of instructing an external search to be undertaken, the can be found directly above.
However, input from all the Directors is Committee considered the skills, knowledge and experience on the sought by the Committee and it involves the Board when performing Board following the recent additions of Minnow Powell and Philip Yea its key responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman asked Russell Reynolds Associates, a global leader in assessment, recruitment and succession planning for boards of RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE directors, to assist in the preparation of the brief.
Russell Reynolds The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to assist the Associates had no other connection with the Company other than Board with: providing this type of service.
It was provided with a profile of the the search and selection process for the appointment of both required candidate, following which a search was carried out to Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Board, and ensuring identify suitable individuals who were then interviewed by members that any such process is formal and transparent: of the Nomination Committee and by the remaining Board Directors.
ensuring that the Board, and its Committees, have the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience to enable each to As part of the selection process, the Committee considered whether discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively: each candidate would have sufficient time to devote to being a review whether to recommend a Director for re-election at the Non-Executive Director of the Company, given their other existing Companys AGM: commitments.
Prior to formally recommending to the Board that Ros reviewing whether each Director has sufficient time to discharge Rivaz be appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the his her duty to the Company and its shareholders: Company, the Committee considered and agreed that she would be succession planning for the Board and Senior Executives of independent in character and judgement, as defined under provision the Group: B1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Ros was also appointed reviewing the membership of the Boards Committees.
as a member of the Companys Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees all with effect from 11 November 2016.
The full Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee are available on the Companys website: www.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Nomination Committee 73 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Succession planning The Committee understands and is focused on the need for effective succession planning for the future prosperity of the Company, and indeed this features as one of the Companys key risks within the Group Risk Log on pages 23 to 25 of this Annual Report.
Developing future leaders and successor candidates is central to our strategy of creating and carrying forward a culture that builds customer relationships.
The Committee, whilst recognising that internal talent development is primarily the responsibility of Management, has reviewed Managements pipeline of executive talent, both for emergency use and long-term potential.
Election and re-election of Directors The Committee reviewed in detail the performance of the Directors who are standing for election or re-election at the Companys 2017 AGM.
The results of the Companys most recent Board evaluation process were considered, alongside the contribution made by each individual, with the exercise being particularly rigorous in respect of Non-Executive Directors who have been in their role for six years or longer.
Following this review, the Committee recommended that each Director on the Board as at 31 December 2016 be put forward for election or re-election by the Companys shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Diversity The Committee, and additionally the Board, continues to recognise the benefits that diverse skills, experience and points of view can bring to an organisation, and how it may assist the decision-making ability of the Board, thereby increasing its effectiveness.
Whilst the Board continues to recognise and monitor the continuing debate around possible future legislation in this area, appointments to the Board will remain primarily based on merit, and it has not therefore set any measurable targets in this area.
As at 31 December 2016, the Computacenter Board had two female Non-Executive Directors, Ros Rivaz and Regine Stachelhaus, representing 22.2 per cent of the total Board membership.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Nomination Committee 13 March 2017 74
