Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholder This is the first report of the Nomination Committee the Committee.
Committee members and independence I chair the Committee, and my fellow Committee members are Jesper Ovesen, Steve Holliday, Kunal Pandit and Raj Shah.
From time to time other members of the Board may be invited to attend all or part of any Committee meeting if it is deemed appropriate.
I confirm that I have no other significant commitments.
The Code recommends that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
As explained on page 56, Kunal Pandit and Raj Shah are considered not to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
However the Board believes that this Committee will still be able to operate effectively as two of its five members are independent.
In addition, I was also considered independent on appointment.
In the coming year, when Further, the Committee will benefit from the business experience of Kunal and Raj and their long-standing relationship and understanding of the Group.
This non-compliance will be reviewing the composition addressed as the structure of the Board changes over time.
of the Board we will Key areas of responsibility The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for endeavour to achieve recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board.
appropriate levels of The Committees key areas of responsibility include to: diversity while at the Lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
Review regularly the structure, size and composition of the same time ensuring that Board including its skills knowledge, independence, experience and diversity and make recommendations to the individuals are appointed Board about any changes.
Consider plans and make recommendations to the Board for orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to on merit and the Board senior management.
Maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience at all times has the relevant within the Company and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board, taking into account the skills and expertise to challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
Review each year the time Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend on the Companys matters and whether perform effectively.
each Non Executive Director is devoting enough time to his or her duties.
Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms of reference which can be found at www.
60ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Activities of the Committee during the period Chairman and Non-Executive Director appointments At the meeting held in December 2016, which was attended by Russell Reynolds, the external search firm, was retained prior to all members, the Committee: the Groups Listing to identify suitable candidates for Discussed a process to review and develop the diversity of the appointment as Chairman of the Company.
process I was appointed and entered into an engagement letter Reviewed the succession planning for the Board and the with ConvaTec Healthcare B S. a. r. l. with effect from 1 senior management team.
September 2016 to provide support to the Company in Appointed Steve Holliday to the Committee.
On 31 October 2016, I entered into a letter of appointment with the Company which replaced the Board appointments and diversity letter effective 1 September 2016.
When evaluating candidates for Board membership candidates are considered on merit and objective criteria taking account of Russell Reynolds, the external search firm, was retained prior to their relevant skills, expertise and sector knowledge and the Groups Listing to identify suitable candidates for recognising the benefits of Boardroom diversity, including age, appointment as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
As a nationality, ethnicity and gender.
This Committee leads this result of this process Steve Holliday, Jesper Ovesen and Rick evaluation process and makes recommendations to the Board.
Anderson were appointed as independent Non-Executive Directors and entered into engagement letters with ConvaTec As Board composition changes over time and new Healthcare B S. a. r. l. with effect from 1 September 2016 to appointments are made, the Committee will be responsible for provide support to the Company in preparation for its Listing.
ensuring that in relation to each new Board appointment an On 31 October 2016 the independent Non-Executive Directors appropriate role specification is prepared identifying the skills, entered into letters of appointment with the Company which experience and knowledge required.
replaced the letters effective 1 September 2016.
At Board level we have five nationalities and a good range of Copies of all appointment letters are available for inspection at skills, expertise and ages.
However currently we do not have any the Companys registered office.
In the coming year, when reviewing the composition of the Board we will endeavour to achieve From time to time Korn Ferry will also conduct executive search appropriate levels of diversity while at the same time ensuring assignments for the Group.
that individuals are appointed on merit and the Board at all times has the relevant skills and expertise to perform effectively.
Russell Reynolds and Korn Ferry have no connection with the During 2017 the Committee intends to put in place a Board Company other than they may be engaged to assist with senior Diversity Policy and objectives for implementing this policy management appointments from time to time.
which will be applied when drawing up candidate shortlists.
In 2017 we will continue our work to maintain a strong Board.
Selected candidates will be interviewed by members of the Committee, including myself and will be offered meetings with the Executive Directors.
The Committee will then make recommendations to the Board for its approval.
External search firms will be engaged to assist with candidate On behalf of the Nomination Committee identification.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman of the Nomination Committee 17 March 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc61
