Board of Directors A strong Board with a wide range of relevant skills and experience.
Sir Christopher Gent Paul Moraviec Nigel Clerkin Steve Holliday Jesper Ovesen Chairman, 68 Chief Executive Chief Financial Deputy Chairman Independent Officer, 58 Officer, 43 and Senior Non-Executive Independent Director, 59 Non-Executive Director, 60 Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment October 2016 October 2016 joined September 2016 joined October 2016 October 2016 ConvaTec Limited in 2009 ConvaTec Healthcare Ireland Limited in 2014 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Sir Christopher has Paul was appointed Chief Nigel was previously the Steve was previously Chief Jespers previous board significant board level Executive in 2014.
He joined Executive Vice President and Executive of National Grid positions include Executive experience across global ConvaTec Limited in 2009 Chief Financial Officer plc, a role he held for over Chairman of Nokia Siemens operations and a range of as President of EMEA.
CFO of Elan Corporation, nine years until his Networks, Chief Financial sectors, including healthcare.
Previously he held senior a Dublin-based retirement in July 2016, Officer of TDC, Chief His previous board positions positions with a number of biotechnology company, Non-Executive director of Executive of Kirkbi Group, include Chief Executive of leading global medical device where he held a series of Marks & Spencer plc and a Chief Financial Officer of Vodafone, Chairman of companies, including Abbott roles in strategic planning Board Member of British The Lego Group and Danske GlaxoSmithKline, Chairman Laboratories where he was and finance prior to Borneo Oil and Gas.
He also Bank and the Audit Chair of of the Supervisory Board of VicePresident of becoming CFO in 2011. held senior management FLSmidth & Co. Orkla Mannesmann AG, Board International Commercial Earlier in his career, Nigel roles with Exxon in refining, Group and Danisco.
He was Member of Verizon Wireless, Operations covering EMEA, was an auditor with KPMG.
shipping and international also a Director of corporate Board Member of Ferrari, APAC, Latin America and He is a fellow of Chartered gas.
Currently he is Vicefinance for Novo-Nordisk.
He Non-Executive director of Canada, Johnson & Johnson Accountants Ireland.
Chairman of Business in the is currently Deputy Chairman China Mobile Hong Kong where he held a series of Community and The Careers of SEB, one of the largest Limited and Non-Executive increasingly senior and Enterprise Company and banks in the Nordic region, director of Lehman Brothers.
international management Chairman of the board of and the Audit Chair of He was also a Senior Adviser and marketing roles and trustees at Crisis, the Lundbeck and Sunrise to Bain & Company.
He is Bausch & Lomb where he homeless charity.
currently a member of the was a country manager.
Prior fellow of the Royal Academy Jesper is a chartered international advisory board to joining ConvaTec he was of Engineering.
Chief Executive of a specialist surgical robotics company.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nomination Committee CR Committee Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee Chairman Chairman Chairman CR Committee Chairman Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 54ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Rick Anderson Raj Shah Thomas Vetander Kunal Pandit Board experience Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director not Director not Director not Global Director, 56 independent, 48 independent, 37 independent, 37 Healthcare M&A Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment October 2016 September 2016 September 2016 September 2016 Finance Public Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Rick was previously Group Raj is a Partner at NC Thomas is a Principal at NC Kunal is a Partner at Avista Board nationality Chairman of Johnson & Advisory LLP, exclusive Advisory AB, exclusive Capital Partners, and has Johnson and Worldwide adviser to Nordic Capital adviser to Nordic Capital been with the firm since Franchise Chairman of Fund V, Nordic Capital Fund Fund V, Nordic Capital Fund August 2010.
Before VI, Nordic Capital Fund VII VI, Nordic Capital Fund VII Avista, Kunal was at DLJ.
joining Johnson & Johnson, and Nordic Capital Fund VIII.
and Nordic Capital Fund VIII.
Merchant Banking Partners Rick was Vice President of He joined NC Advisory LLP He joined NC Advisory AB in in London and before that he Global Marketing of Racal in May 2015 and he is June 2006 and prior to that was a member of the.
HealthCare and, prior to that, focused on healthcare he worked as a management leveraged finance group and he was with Boehringer investments.
Prior to that Raj consultant at McKinsey & the investment banking Mannheim Pharmaceuticals was co-head of European Company in Stockholm.
and Allergan healthcare investment Currently he is a director of Brothers in London.
Currently banking at Goldman Sachs.
Currently he is a Director of he is a Managing Director at He is currently a director of Acino, Trimb Healthcare and.
PTV Healthcare Capital ERT and is also a director of Guala Closures.
PTV and serves on the Royal Brompton & Harefield board of PTVs portfolio Charity.
British company Apollo as a cardiac surgeon at.
He is also the Oxford and London.
Danish Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee CR Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc55
