Corporate governance report UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Board responsibilities The Board is committed to applying the highest standards of The Board is specifically responsible for the long-term success corporate governance across the Group and confirms that since of the Group and for ensuring that there is a framework of the Companys Listing to 31 December 2016, it has complied appropriate and effective controls which enables risk to be with the requirements of the Code save as set out below.
The Board sets the Companys strategic of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources website at www.
are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board also sets the Companys As highlighted in the Chairmans governance letter, the areas of vision, values and corporate standards and ensures that its non-compliance arise for two reasons.
Firstly two of our current obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are shareholders, companies ultimately owned by Nordic Capital understood and met.
and Avista, own the majority of the Companys shares and are entitled to appoint Non-Executive Directors.
Secondly a short The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval period of time has elapsed since our Listing on 31 October 2016 and a formal structure of delegated authority, whereby specified and as a result we have not had the opportunity to address items have been delegated to the Board committees, and some requirements of the Code that would usually be specified management control has been delegated to the addressed through the annual cycle of meetings and activities of Executive Directors and the senior management teams within the the Board and its committees.
The Board has agreed the terms of reference for the Audit and Risk, Nomination, Remuneration, Corporate The areas of non-compliance with the Code that arise as a result Responsibility and Market Disclosure committees.
The powers of of our major shareholders entitlement to appoint non-executive the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
directors are: The recommendation that at least half the board of directors Matters reserved for the Board of a UK-listed company, excluding the Chairman, should A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Boards decision comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to and approval is available at www.
These be independent in character and judgement and free from largely relate to matters of governance and business where relationships or circumstance which may affect, or could independence from Executive management is important, and appear to affect, the directors judgement provision B.
1.2. include the following: A majority of members of the nomination committee should Approving the annual and half-year results and any other be independent non-executive directors provision B.
Group trading or interim statements, the Annual Report and The audit committee should comprise of at least three Accounts, accounting policies and, subject to shareholder independent non-executive directors provision C. 3.1. approval, the appointment and remuneration of the external The remuneration committee should comprise of at least auditors.
three independent non-executive directors provision D. 2.1.
Approving the Groups strategic aims and objectives.
Approving the annual operating and capital expenditure This non-compliance will be addressed as the composition of budgets, including all investments in excess of $10m or the Board changes over time.
otherwise as required under the Boards delegation of authority.
The areas of non-compliance with the Code that arise as a result Approving any material extension of the Groups activities into of the short period of time that has elapsed since our Listing are: new business or geographic areas.
Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive Oversight of the Groups operations and review of directors should meet with the chairman at least annually, to performance against the Groups annual budget and its approve the chairmans performance and on such occasions strategic aims and objectives.
as are deemed appropriate provision A.
It is intended that Approving appointments to the Board.
such meeting and appraisal will be undertaken in the final Approving any changes to the capital structure of the quarter of 2017.
The chairman should regularly review and agree with each Approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment of director their training and development needs provision interim and the recommendation of final dividends.
As explained in the Chairmans governance letter on Reviewing material litigation.
page 53 and below, it is intended that such reviews will take Approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals.
place during 2017 and plans to address individual needs will be Approving material contracts.
Determining and monitoring the Groups risk appetite, An evaluation of the Board and its committees performance systems of internal control, corporate governance structures, to be undertaken provision B.
As explained in the practices and approval authorities.
Chairmans governance letter on page 53 and below, it is Determining the Groups remuneration policy and the intended that such reviews will be undertaken in the final remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and quarter of 2017. other senior executives, monitoring executive performance An annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk and succession planning.
management and internal control systems provision C. 2.3.
It Approval and monitoring of the corporate responsibility policy is intended that such review will be undertaken in the final and report.
Following the Listing of the Company no changes were made to the schedule of formal matters reserved for the Boards decision.
Such decisions are usually by consensus at Board meetings.
On occasion, decisions may be taken by a majority of Board members.
In the case of an equality of votes, the Companys Articles of Association provide the Chairman with a second or casting vote.
56ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Governance framework Our governance framework is set out below.
Sir Christopher Gent Paul Moraviec Nigel Clerkin Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Raj Shah Thomas Vetander Kunal Pandit Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Steve Holliday Jesper Ovesen Rick Anderson Senior Independent Non-Executive Independent Independent Director Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Corporate Market Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Jesper Ovesen Steve Holliday Sir Christopher Gent Sir Christopher Gent One Executive Chair Chair Chair Chair Director Thomas Vetander Raj Shah Raj Shah Rick Anderson One Non-Executive Rick Anderson Jesper Ovesen Kunal Pandit Paul Moraviec Director Chairman Steve Holliday Sir Christopher Gent Jesper Ovesen or Senior Raj Shah Steve Holliday Independent Director or any other NonExecutive Director Board composition The Board is mindful of the need to consider the interests of the At the end of the year the Board comprised nine Directors: the Companys new minority investors.
In October 2016 Sir Chairman, two Executive Directors, three independent NonChristopher Gent was appointed to the Board as independent Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman and in October 2016 Steve Holliday, Jesper Ovesen Biographical details of all Directors are set on pages 54 and 55 and Rick Anderson were appointed to the Board as independent and at www.
The Board believes that these appointments will provide the appropriate corporate Nordic Capital and Avista together own the majority of the governance balance in light of the interests of both Nordic Companys shares.
Given its significant investment in the Capital and Avista and new minority shareholders, and that the Company, Nordic Capital is entitled to appoint two Nondepartures from the Code will not have an impact on the Executive Directors to the Board for so long as it and its Groups governance in practice.
Notwithstanding the Board will associates are entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, continue to review its composition and over time intends to fully 25% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially comply with the Code recommendations.
all matters at general meetings of the Company.
Nordic Capital and Avista are entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director The Chairman each to the Board for so long as they and their associates Sir Christopher Gent was the Chairman from 31 October 2016 respectively are entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, to the date of this Annual Report.
10% per cent or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
In accordance with the Code there is a clear division of Nordic Capital and Avista have the right to offer a purchaser of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all Officer.
Each have Board approved roles and responsibilities matters at general meetings of the Company, a right to appoint and the documentation detailing their specific roles and one Non-Executive Director subject to various conditions as set responsibilities is available at www.
The first such appointees by Nordic Capital are Raj Shah and Thomas Vetander and by Avista is The Senior Independent Director Kunal Pandit.
Steve Holliday was the Companys Senior Independent Director SID from 31 October 2016 to the date of this Annual Report.
Details of Raj Shah, Thomas Vetander and Kunal Pandits The SID role is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman, to committee memberships are set out above.
As a result the Audit serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee does necessary and to be available to shareholders if they have not consist solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Notwithstanding their lack of independence, the Board Chairman or Executive Directors has either failed to resolve or considers that the business experience of Raj, Thomas and for which such contact is inappropriate.
The SID also will lead Kunal and their long-standing relationship and understanding of the annual evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
The the Group are valuable contributions to each of the committees.
documentation detailing the Board approved role and responsibilities of the SID is available at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc57 Corporate governance report continued Re-appointment of Directors Following the year-end the Board met in February and March All Directors are subject to annual re-election and all Directors 2017.
At the meeting in February the Board: will be proposed for election by shareholders at the AGM to be Reviewed the Groups draft full year results statement to held on 11 May 2017.
Non-Executive Directors are initially ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
appointed for a one-year term and retiring Directors, if willing to Received a report from the Audit and Risk Committee on the act, will be deemed to be re-appointed unless the resolution for draft full year results statement, the Annual Report and their re-appointment is not approved.
Financial Statements and the accounting issues relating to the Financial Statements.
Board meetings and attendance Reviewed the process and stress testing undertaken to The Board intends to meet approximately seven times a year support the Groups Viability and Going Concern statements.
and will aim to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Reviewed the Companys principal risks and determined the one of the Companys operations to provide the Board with Groups risk appetite.
access to the Groups wider management team and the Approved the 2017 operating plan.
opportunity to deepen their understanding of the Groups Reviewed the progress of the Companys Margin Improvement business.
Seven in person meetings are scheduled for 2017 with Programme.
supplementary telephone meetings as required.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that they have sufficient time to At the meeting in March the Board: properly fulfil their duties including attendance at the Board Approved the Annual Report and Accounts.
meetings scheduled to take place in 2017 and separate time Approved an announcement with regard to the release of the with management.
In addition to the scheduled meetings the Board may meet at Board independence and conflicts of interest other times as required or at the request of one or more The Companies Act has codified the Directors duty to avoid a Directors.
Where decisions are required between meetings on situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that matters reserved to the Board, there is a process in place to conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the interest of the schedule meetings by telephone and, since March 2017, review Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the papers via an encrypted portal system.
relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association or by the other Directors.
The Board, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit and Risk Committee each met once during the period The Board has reviewed the independence of the Chairman and in December 2016 and all members attended the respective each Non-Executive Director other than those appointed by meetings which took place at the Groups UK-based global Nordic Capital and Avista, being Raj Shah, Thomas Vetander and research and development facility at Deeside, North Wales.
Kunal Pandit and considers them to be independent of management and free from business relationships that could Since the year-end the Board has met on two occasions.
The interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
The following Board committees also met since the year-end: Board believes that any shares in the Company held by the Audit and Risk Committee one meeting in February.
Chairman and the independent Non-Executive Directors serve Remuneration Committee one meeting in February.
to align their interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
As highlighted in the biographical information provided about each Director on pages 54 and 55 of this Governance section, Board induction and development the Board benefits from a wide variety of skills, experience and All new Directors participate in a formal induction programme knowledge.
However, each independent Non-Executive Director which is monitored by the Chairman and is the responsibility of must be able to commit sufficient time to the Company and this the Company Secretary.
Its purpose is to familiarise new must be balanced against other commitments and any other Directors with the Groups business and its operations and external appointment they may hold.
Through the annual provide key information in relation to its governance and evaluation of Non-Executive Directors effectiveness this compliance processes and procedures.
sufficient time commitment will continue to be assessed.
In September and October 2016 the Chairman and the NonIn addition to scheduled Board meetings, Non-Executive Executive Directors all participated in formal induction meetings Directors are expected to attend the AGM, the Companys which included discussions with members of the Groups senior annual strategy meeting and certain other Company events and management team and legal and compliance training.
In site visits throughout the year.
A time commitment of 15-25 addition, separate meetings were held between each of the days per annum is the anticipated requirement for each independent Non-Executive Directors and Nordic Capital and Non-Executive Director.
A greater time commitment is required Avista in their capacity as major shareholders of the Company.
from the Chairman and he has no other significant commitment The Executive Directors also met with a significant number of that could affect his commitment to the Company.
the Companys shareholders as part of the IPO process.
And as highlighted above, the December Board meeting was held at Activities of the Board during the period the Groups global research and development facility which At the meeting held in December 2016, the Board: provided the Directors with an opportunity to meet the full Reviewed current trading and financial performance.
executive leadership team, receive a presentation from each of Received an update on the Groups Margin Improvement the franchises and Regional Presidents on their business areas Programme details of which are set out in the Strategic and tour the operation.
The induction programme for new Directors will continue to be Received an update on the Groups legal and compliance developed building on our experience inducting each new framework.
In particular the programme will include committee Approved the appointment of the Companys corporate brokers.
induction processes to provide new committee members with 58ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 information relevant to the committees activities.
During 2017 the Chairman will review and agree with each Director their training and development needs and initiatives to support the Non-Executive Directors continued development and training needs will also be introduced.
Furthermore all Non-Executive Directors will be expected to meet regularly with members of the senior operational management team and visit the Groups operations.
In addition at scheduled Board meetings the Directors will receive updates and presentations from the Groups senior management on business developments, with rotating deep dives on each franchise, a geographic region or a strategic initiative.
In addition to enhancing the Directors knowledge of the Group these regular detailed business updates will provide the Board with access to the Groups senior talent.
Board evaluation As explained on page 53, as the Company listed recently a formal and independent evaluation of the Boards effectiveness has not yet been undertaken.
The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough Board and committees evaluation process and intends to conduct such a process in the final quarter of 2017.
The output from that review will be discussed by the Board and any findings and actions arising will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report.
Thereafter annually the Board and its Committees will be evaluated in accordance with their terms of reference and once every three years we will arrange for this evaluation process to be externally facilitated.
Separately on an annual basis the Board will conduct an evaluation of the Chairman.
This will be led by the SID with input from the other Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
Committees of the Board The Board has established five committees of the Board: a Nomination Committee, a Corporate Responsibility Committee, a Market Disclosure Committee, an Audit and Risk Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which set out formally delegated duties and responsibilities.
These terms of reference are available on the Groups corporate website at www.
The reports from each of the Boards committees other than the Market Disclosure Committee are set out on the following pages: Nomination Committee report on pages 60 to 61, Corporate Responsibility Committee report on page 62, Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 63 to 65 and Remuneration Committee report on pages 66 to 82.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc59
