Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Audit and Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present this first report of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee.
Committee members and independence I chair the Committee, and my fellow Committee members are Steve Holliday, Rick Anderson, Raj Shah and Thomas Vetander.
From time to time other members of the Board, in particular the Chief Financial Officer, and representatives from the External Auditor and the Companys Internal Audit, Legal and Compliance teams may be invited to attend all or part of any Committee meeting if it is deemed appropriate.
I am a chartered accountant and have extensive experience in senior finance roles across a range of international businesses.
I am currently the Audit Chair of two large companies, Lundbeck and Sunrise Communications Group.
My fellow Committee members have relevant financial experience as a result of their current roles.
Details of the experience of all members of the Committee are The Board has included on pages 54 to 55.
I am considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, and all members of the Committee are considered by the Board to have delegated to the competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates, as required by the Code.
Committee responsibility The Code recommends that all members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
As explained on page 56, for overseeing financial Raj Shah and Thomas Vetander are considered not to be independent for the purposes of the Code, however the Board reporting, internal and believes that the independence of this Committee will not be compromised as a majority of its members are independent.
This external audit, internal non-compliance will be addressed as the composition of the Board changes over time.
controls and risk Key areas of responsibility The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for management.
overseeing financial reporting, internal and external audit, internal controls and risk management.
The Committee fulfils a key role in ensuring the integrity of financial information published by the Company and the effectiveness of the internal and external audit processes.
In accordance with its terms of reference the Committees key areas of responsibility include: Financial reporting Monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and ensure compliance with UK company law and accounting regulation.
Review and report to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the financial statements.
Internal audit Agree the internal audit annual audit plan and regularly review reports arising from internal audits.
Monitor the status of actions resulting from internal audits and consider remedial action for overdue items.
Monitor and review the Groups internal audit resources and monitor its effectiveness.
External audit Make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and independence of the external auditor.
Assess the effectiveness of the audit process and the quality of the external audit.
Review the policy on non-audit services carried out by the external auditor.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc63 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Internal controls External audit Monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial On 7 October 2016 Deloitte was appointed as the Groups controls and compliance with the Code.
At the Committees meeting in December Review the operation of the Groups risk management 2016 this appointment was reconfirmed.
Upon the processes and the control environment over financial risks.
recommendation of the Committee, Deloitte will be proposed for election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 11 May Risk management 2017 and Gregory Culshaw ACA appointed as senior statutory Monitor the nature and extent of the principal risks that the auditor.
Deloitte has confirmed its independence as auditor to Group is facing and should be willing to take in achieving its the Company in a letter addressed to the Directors.
Review the Groups compliance policies and procedures to External audit tendering ensure that the Group complies with relevant regulatory and Currently the Committee intends to run a tender for the audit legal requirements including the arrangements in place for role in or before 2021 but reserves the right to run such a the reporting and investigation of concerns.
The audit tendering process will occur at least once every ten years.
The Committee has a planned cycle of activities to ensure that it will meet its responsibilities in the current financial year.
Audit independence Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms Deloitte was determined to be the appropriate adviser in of reference which can be found at www.
relation to specific aspects of the Groups initial public offering given the scale and complexity of the work involved.
The work Activities of the Committee during the period and following did not represent a threat to Deloittes independence as it was year-end permissible work under audit independence guidelines and was The Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms of reference performed by a different and independent engagement team: and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: did not relate to production of financial statements: did not Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the result in decisions being made by Deloitte on behalf of Groups financial statements, which included key areas of scope management: and the fee arrangements were not dependent of work, key risks on the financial statements, confirmation of on the results of the work.
Deloitte also complied with the auditor independence and the proposed audit fee.
independence requirements as set out by the APB Ethical Reviewing the Groups system of controls and its Standards of Reporting Accountants.
The IPO-related non-audit effectiveness, reviewed the work performed by Internal Audit, fees incurred to Deloitte are not expected to recur in 2017. and the internal audit plan for 2017.
Reviewing the Groups draft full year results statement prior A policy is in place which requires all material non-audit work to Board approval ensuring that it is fair, balanced and proposed to be carried out by the external auditor to be understandable and reviewing the external auditors detailed pre-authorised by the Chair of the Committee in order to reports thereon, in particular reviewing the opinions of ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair management and the auditor in relation to the carrying values the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Certain of the Groups assets.
services cannot be provided by the external auditor or members Reviewing the accounting issues and significant judgements of its network without the possibility of compromising its related to the financial statements.
independence and as such are not permitted to be provided by Reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts and ensuring they the external auditor.
These prohibited non-audit services are fair and balanced and understandable, include, but are not limited to, the provision of internal audit Reviewing the process and stress testing undertaken to services, design or implementation of information technology support the Groups Viability and Going Concern statements.
systems relating to the production of financial statements, Reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting valuation services, actuarial valuation services, certain taxation policies.
services, and provision of legal services, recruitment services, Recommending to the full Board, which adopted the restructuring services, bookkeeping and payroll services.
Other recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP types of non-audit work can be undertaken by the external Deloitte as the Groups external auditor.
auditor, subject to the implementation of adequate safeguards Approving the policy on non-audit services carried out by the and the total fees for these non-audit services must not exceed Groups external auditor.
70% of the average audit fees billed to the Company by the Reviewing internal controls and risk management systems, external auditor in the past three years.
A summary of fees paid including reviewing the corporate risk register.
to the external auditor is set out in Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
In the period from Listing to 31 December 2016, The items marked with an asterisk were considered at the meeting of the the external auditor did not undertake any material non-audit Committee in December 2016 and all other items at the meeting held in February work for the Company.
External audit effectiveness The Committee did not hold any meetings with shareholders Overall effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent during the year.
However the Committee is keen to foster an upon open communication between the Group and the auditor, open dialogue with shareholders on its activities.
which allows each party to raise potential accounting and financial reporting issues as and when they arise, rather than limiting this Committee evaluation exchange only during regularly scheduled meetings.
To assess the The Committee plans to undertake a self-assessment during effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: 2017, taking into account its collective skills and experience, the The arrangement for ensuring the external auditors activities that it has engaged in and the effectiveness of its independence and objectivity.
actions in improving the Companys system of risk management The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and and internal control.
During 2017 the Committee will remain any variations from the plan.
focused on maintaining sufficient oversight of key areas of risks, The content of the external auditors assessment of internal the effectiveness of the controls and mitigation over such risks, control.
and monitoring and anticipating changes in the Companys risks.
64ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 The robustness and perception of the auditor in its handling These issues were discussed with management during the year of the key accounting and audit judgements.
and during the preparation and finalisation of the financial statements.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from The Committee plans on developing a formal process for management the Committee is satisfied that the financial reviewing the performance of the external audit and identifying statements appropriately address the critical judgements and areas for improvement which is aligned with best practice key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the during 2017. disclosures made.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets Risk management and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged The Board has delegated to this Committee responsibility for and are sufficiently robust.
The Committee has discussed these routine monitoring and reviewing the Groups risk management issues with the auditor during the audit planning process and at system and the risks that the Group should be willing to take in the finalisation of the year-end audit and is satisfied that its achieving its strategic objectives.
The Committee will report to conclusions are in line with those drawn by the auditor in the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to assess the Groups relation to these issues.
risk management and internal controls including determination of the nature and extent of the principal risks.
Details of the The Committees process for challenging the assumptions of Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 30 management and addressing the risks identified includes the to 33 together with information about the management and following activities: mitigation of such risks.
Reviewing the significant management judgements and assumptions underlying managements impairment analysis Internal audit for goodwill and intangibles and challenging key assumptions The Group has an Internal Audit function.
Its primary objective is such as discount rates and terminal growth rates applied, to systematically and objectively assess the adequacy and comparing rates to industry peers and historical performance.
effectiveness of the business controls over the Groups Challenging management growth forecasts through analytical operations, financial reporting, risk and compliance areas and review and assessment of the ability to achieve these review the quality of performance in achieving the Groups forecasts.
Reviewing the evidence supporting the Going Concern basis of accounts preparation and Viability Statement.
The Committee has reviewed and approved the internal audit charter and risk-based internal audit plan, and received updates Our Financial Statements also reflect a restatement to the on the internal audit activity, engagement results, and the status historical carrying amounts for goodwill, as we discovered an of management actions to help form a view on internal audit error in how the acquisition of ConvaTec from Bristol-Myers effectiveness.
Squibb was originally recorded in 2008, as further explained in Note 14 to the Financial Statements.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the quality, experience and expertise of the Internal Audit function are appropriate for In its advisory capacity, the Committee confirmed to the Board, the Group.
that based on its review of the Annual Report and Accounts and internal controls that support the disclosures, that the Annual Compliance review Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and The Committee also reviews the Groups compliance policies understandable and provide the necessary information for the and procedures including the operation of the third partyshareholders to assess the Companys position and performance managed whistle-blowing solution to enable employees and and its business model and strategy.
third parties to report suspected breaches of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Further information about our The Committees process for ensuring the Annual Report and compliance programme and our Code of Ethics and Business Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable Conduct is included on page 49. includes the following exercises: A qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal Significant areas considered by the Committee in relation consistency throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
to the financial reporting matters in 2016 Preparation and issue to the Audit Committee key working During the year, the Committee considered the following papers and results for each of the significant issues and significant risks and issues in relation to the Groups financial judgements considered by the Audit Committee in the period.
statements and disclosures: The implications and accounting conclusions reached in connection with the Groups reorganisation.
The assessment of the carrying value of the goodwill due to the significance of the amounts recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and judgements involved in On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee assessing goodwill for impairment.
Jesper Ovesen The assessment of the carrying value of intangible assets due Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee to the significance of the amounts recorded on the 17 March 2017 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Assessment of uncertain tax positions.
Going Concern and long-term Viability Statements.
Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc65
