GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDITCOMMITTEE REPORT OF THE AUDITCOMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, I am pleased to present Countrysides first report since flotation in February 2016 as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committees role is to protect the interests of shareholders by ensuring sound control of the Group, the integrity of published financial information and an effective audit process.
As required by the Code, and to ensure the Company receives the best audit service, we ran a competitive tender for the external audit during the year.
The Audit Committee reviewed three high quality proposals from Ernst & Young, KPMG andPwC, deciding ultimately to recommend the re-appointment ofPwC.
Thisdecision will be put to Committee Chairman shareholders forapproval at the AGM inJanuary 2017.
Richard Adam During 2016 the Audit Committee focused on the financial Other members policies and procedures of the Group prior to the IPO.
Post Amanda Burton IPO, the Audit Committee continued to focus on areas of key Sally Morgan accounting judgement, particularly the valuation of inventory and shared equity, the presentation of non-underlying items Meetings held and taxation matters and the recognition of gross profit.
Wehave also worked on the identification and management of 4 risks for the Group, and the work of the internal and external auditors in giving assurance over the Groups internal control Role and responsibilities environment.
Further details about these activities can be oftheAuditCommittee: found in the report overleaf.
Monitoring the integrity of the Groupsfinancial statements and formalannouncements Reviewing significant accounting and Richard Adam reportingjudgements Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 November 2016 Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function Making recommendations in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of theexternal auditor Monitoring auditor independence Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services Reviewing the Groups risk management framework and key internal controls Reviewing the Groups procedures for detecting and preventing fraud, bribery and the governance of anti-money laundering systems and controls A PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY The Committees terms of reference are available at: IN2016 WAS THE investors.
com MANAGEMENT OF THE Areas of focus in 2016 Prior to the Companys flotation in February 2016, the COMPETITIVE TENDER Audit Committees main focus was in reviewing the Groups PROCESS FORTHE financial policies and procedures in anticipation of the IPO.
Since then, the additional areas of focus for the Audit GROUPS EXTERNAL Committee were to review the judgements and estimates AUDITORS, THE RESULT relating to the Groups half-year results, consider various accounting and taxation matters, review the forecasts and OF WHICH WAS THE sensitivity tests related to the Groups Viability Statement, RE-APPOINTMENT overseeing the tender for the provision of external auditor services and review the Groups risk management OFPwC.
com REPORT OF THE AUDITCOMMITTEE CONTINUED consider their likelihood and impact, both on an continue to be monitored and reviewed by the COMPOSITION inherent and a residual basis, after taking account Board and the Audit Committee.
During 2016, the composition of the Audit Committee of mitigating controls.
This allows us to determine complied with the Code and comprised three how we should manage each risk in order to FAIR, BALANCED AND Independent Non-Executive Directors: Richard achieve our strategic objectives.
UNDERSTANDABLE Adam, Amanda Burton and Sally Morgan.
The At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee Board considers Richard Adam, the Chairman, At the quarterly meetings of the Risk Management considered whether the 2016 Annual Report was tohave recent and relevant financial experience Committee, management discusses the key risks fair, balanced and understandable and whether working with financial and accounting matters.
along with the mitigating action plans.
Following itprovided the necessary information for the The Audit Committee maintains a formal agenda sign off by the Executive Committee, the output shareholders to assess the Groups performance, for each year to ensure compliance with the of this review is presented to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee requirements of the Code, and met three times since The Groups key risk management procedures took into account its own knowledge of the Group, 17 December 2015 when the Audit Committee have been in place throughout 2016 and up to its strategy and performance in the year and for the Group parent was established in advance the date of approval of this Annual Report.
comprehensive reviews undertaken at different of the listing of Countryside Properties PLC.
levels in the Group to ensure consistency and OVERVIEW OF RISK Details of attendance at the Audit Committee overall balance.
A similar detailed review undertaken MANAGEMENTPROCESS meetings during the 2016 financial year are set by the senior management and the external Internal control out on page 49. auditors was also taken into account by the The Groups key internal control procedures AuditCommittee.
include the following: INTERNALCONTROLS Prior to the publication of both the half and The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, is Review of the Groups strategy and the full-year results for the Group, the Audit responsible for regularly reviewing the operation performance of principal subsidiaries, through Committee undertook a detailed assessment of the and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
a comprehensive system of reporting based appropriateness of the adoption by the Group of The internal control system is designed to manage on variances to annual budgets, key performance the going concern basis in the preparation of the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve indicators and regular forecasting.
For further information in business objectives and can only provide reasonable, A quarterly business review for each business respect of the going concern, please refer to the and not absolute, assurance against material division.
This covers financial performance, a Directors Report onpage 72. errors, losses or fraud.
The Board is also responsible detailed range of strategic risks, opportunities for ensuring that appropriate systems are in place Shortly before publication of the full-year financial and KPI metrics which measure the overall to enable it to identify, assess and manage key results for 2016, the Audit Committee undertook performance of the business sector.
The financial reporting process and control a detailed assessment of the Viability Statement also identifies the key operational issues and system which includes the preparation of the and recommended to the Board that the Directors actions required to address any deficiencies.
consolidated financial statements is monitored can believe that they have a reasonable expectation and maintained through the use of internal control Well defined Group policies and processes, that the Company will be able to continue in frameworks which address key financial reporting communicated through the Group Financial operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due risks, including risks arising from changes in the Reporting Procedures Manual and the intranet, over the three-year period of their assessment.
Effectiveness is and a defined process governing the approval of For the detailed Viability Statement, please refer to assessed through self-certification and independent sales opportunities and capital expenditure.
our risk section on page 37 of the Strategic Report.
A defined organisational structure with INTERNAL AUDIT appropriate delegation of authority across WHISTLEBLOWING The work performed by Deloitte, which performs alllevels of the organisation.
The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported the service of the Groups Internal Audit department, by an external helpline.
All cases of whistleblowing Formal authorisation procedures for all focuses on areas of greatest risk to the Group, are investigated by the Company Secretary and the investments with clear guidelines on appraisal including those matters identified through the results of any investigations are reported to the techniques and success criteria.
riskmanagement framework and any significant Audit Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that change projects occurring within the business.
The Formal authorisation procedures for all the policy and its administration remain effective.
objective of Internal Audit is to provide independent significant sales opportunities and bid assurance to the Audit Committee over the financial, management, with clear guidelines on success RISK MANAGEMENT operational and compliance controls and to assist criteria and contracting practices.
The successful management of risk is critical to the Audit Committee in itsassessment of the achieve Countrysides strategic objectives.
The The Audit Committee has, on behalf of the Board, effectiveness of internal controls.
Internal Audit Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of reports directly to the Group Chief Financial Officer, and maintaining effective risk management systems the Groups internal control systems for 2016 and but has the right toreport to the Audit Committee and internal controls to the Audit Committee.
the period prior to approval of this Annual Report.
Chairman independently of the Executive Directors.
Day-to-day management of the Groups risk The Audit Committee reported its findings to the Allsignificant Internal Audit reports are reviewed by management framework is conducted by the Risk Board at the November 2016 Board meeting.
It the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee Management Committee.
Its membership and considered all material controls in accordance with and all reports are made available tothe external role are detailed on page 44.
The Board reviews the Turnbull guidance.
Following this review no auditors.
During the year the Audit Committee the Group risk register annually, with the last significant weaknesses or failings were identified and approved the internal audit plan, reviewed the review occurring on 26 July 2016.
In managing noted improvement areas are being addressed by findings from audits and monitored the follow-up risk we analyse the nature and extent of risks and management.
The internal control environment will ofactions identified inaudits.
48 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE OVERSIGHT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT During the year the Group obtained the COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE  LLP PwC has been following services from the Groups auditors The number of Audit Committee meetings the auditor of the Company since its incorporation as detailed below: attended by each member during the 2016 in November 2015 and of the Group for more financial year is as follows: than 20 years.
2016 2015 Audit Overall 000 000 The Committees oversight of the external auditor Committee attendance includes reviewing and approving the annual Fees payable to the Number of auditplan.
In reviewing the plan, the Committee Groups auditor and 1 meetings held 4 discusses and challenges the auditors assessment its associates for the of materiality and financial reporting risk areas Richard Adam 4 4 100% audit of parent and most likely to give rise to material error.
consolidated financial Amanda Burton 4 4 100% PwC reported to the Board and confirmed its statements 139 82 Baroness Morgan 4 4 100% independence in accordance with ethical Fees payable to the standards and that it had maintained appropriate 1.
The number of meetings held reflects the Committee meetings Groups auditor and internal safeguards to ensure its independence of Copthorn Holdings Limited from 1 October 2015 its associates for and objectivity.
to17 December 2015 and the Committee meetings of other services: Countryside Properties PLC from 17 December 2015 to30September 2016.
EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER PROCESS Audit of subsidiary The Company confirms that it complied with companies 126 294 agreed to recommend the re-appointment of PwC theprovisions of the Competition and Markets Audit of Joint ventures 99 90 as the Groups external auditors for the 2017 audit.
Authoritys Order for the financial year Audit related services 47 20 underreview.
The sub-committee presented their recommendation to the Audit Committee meeting on 26 July 2016.
Tax advisory services 229 In accordance with the requirements of the Audit Factors which the Audit Committee took into Directive 2014 56 EU, the Audit Committee Other advisory account when approving the proposal to re-appoint published a request for proposal to provide external services 121 PwC included that the lead audit partner was very audit and audit-related services to Countryside experienced and had worked with other companies Audit related and its Group subsidiaries for the financial year in the sector, that the lead partner would be new assurance and commencing on 1 October 2016. to the Company following the rotation of the existing transaction services in The applicant firms participating in the tender audit partner, and the depth and quality of PwCs relation to the IPO 1,283 698 process were required to submit their written proposed service, including communication and proposals against the following criteria: 1,815 1,413 audit strategy.
team competence and rapport: The Board approved this recommendation at its Committee approval when non-audit fees reach meeting on 26 July 2016 and a resolution will be audit quality: 70 per cent of the anticipated audit fees over the put to the 2017 AGM for approval by shareholders.
transition planning: next three years, although this limit will not formally apply to the Group until 1 October 2019. service approach: NON-AUDIT SERVICES POLICY The total of non-audit fees paid to PwC during communication: and ANNUAL EVALUATION OF AUDIT the year is set out in the table opposite.
In order COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE fees.
to maintain its independence and objectivity, PwC As part of the overall Board evaluation process, undertook its standard independence procedures As Deloitte are engaged to provide internal audit the Audit Committee reviewed its effectiveness in relation to each of these assignments.
The Audit services, they were excluded from the tender, during 2016.
This evaluation considered areas such Committee has received a report at each meeting with Ernst & Young, KPMG and PwC responding to as its composition, its effectiveness in reviewing the describing the extent of such services provided the tender request following the public invitation work of the internal and external auditors and the by PwC.
posted on the Groups website.
Groups internal control systems, the quality of The award of non-audit services to the Companys reporting and the management of risk.
No significant The tender process involved a review of the external auditors is subject to controls agreed by issues were raised and the Audit Committee Companys financial data set up in a data room, the Audit Committee to monitor and maintain concluded that it continues to operate effectively.
visits to key sites in each business region and meetings the objectivity and independence of the external with Executive Committee members, theChairman, auditors.
In order to comply with the Ethical Standard the Audit Committee Chairman and other senior for Auditors, issued by the Financial Reporting management leading the finance, tax, treasury Council on 17June 2016, the Audit Committee andlegal functions.
Each firm presented to a considered, and approved, a revised policy for auditor sub-committee of the Audit Committee consisting independence and the provision of non-audit of the Audit Committee Chairman, theChairman, services at its meeting on 4 October 2016.
The the Group CFO and the Group Financial Controller.
policy provides details of permitted, prohibited The sub-committee also reviewed the written and audit-related services in accordance with the proposals and feedback from all of the meetings Ethical Standards and requires further Audit described above.
The sub-committee unanimously COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 49 .
com REPORT OF THE AUDITCOMMITTEE CONTINUED AREAS OF SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN2016 In addition to the IPO and non-underlying items, the Audit Committee considered the following matters in respect of the Groups financial statements, based upon its interaction withboth management and the external auditors during the year.
SIGNIFICANT MATTERS CONSIDERED OUR RESPONSE TO THESE MATTERS Gross profit recognition The Audit Committee has reviewed and approved theGroups accounting As disclosed in Note 1 to the financial statements, gross profit is recognised policy in relation to profit recognition.
ashomes are sold based on a profit margin for the development taken The external auditors regularly examine the allocation of revenue and costs asa whole.
Calculating this margin includesforecasting revenue and asaroutine part of the external audit and no significant issues have been costsfor thedevelopment as well as allocating land andinfrastructure identified in this regard.
Profit recognition in relation to commercial land transactions can be subjective and dependent on contractual terms.
The accuracy of allocation is monitored at Board level via the monthly management accounts and quarterly forecasts, with any judgements beingdiscussed with the Audit Committee.
Carrying value of inventory The Audit Committee considered managements review of the carrying Inventory is material to the Groups balance sheet and there is a risk that valueof inventory and the appropriateness of the level of provisions held.
the carrying value willexceed its net realisable value, particularly The external auditors reported on this matter to the Audit Committee inchallenging market conditions.
atthe half-year review and again for the final audit.
Management regularly reviews the carrying value ofall sites under development The Audit Committee was satisfied that the carrying value of inventory and other inventory such as undeveloped land.
regardto the latest cash flow forecasts for the relevant development or land parcel and comparable market valuations for land where applicable.
The Audit Committee reviewed the fair value methodology and the assumptions Carrying value of shared equity loans applied indetermining the fair value of the shared equityportfolio and has The Groups shared equity loan portfolio is held at fair value as an agreed that the carryingvalue is appropriate.
available for sale financial asset.
The fair value is calculated using a discounted cash flow forecast based on likely future redemptions and The valuation methodology has also been auditedby the external auditors.
defaults, taking into account future house price inflation and discounted using an interest rate equivalent to a second charge mortgage.
Management reviews the carrying value regularly and takes into account third party evidence where available.
The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions applied by management Viability Statement testing inarriving at the conclusion on the Groups viability and agreed that they The Viability Statement testing performed by management was based werereasonable.
onthe latest available three-year forecast.
To ensure that the financial position of the Group was robust, downside sensitivity testing was performed by applying arange of overlays including reduced sales rates and average selling prices, a reduction in land sales and reduced affordable housing sales.
Wealso included operational inefficiency downsides including delays to the delivery ofkeysites and enhanced cost inflation.
Each of the above assumptions was based on managements assumption of a reasonable downside outcome.
