com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD ROLE ANDCOMPOSITION The Board is ultimately accountable and responsible COMPOSITION OFTHE BOARD for the performance and affairs of the Company.
The Board is responsible for reviewing and guiding Split of Directors Length of tenure at date of this report corporate strategy, the establishment of key policies and objectives, understanding the key risks faced by Non-Executive Directors the Company and determining the risk tolerance 6 Executive Directors 1-2 years 2 ofthe Company and the processes in operation to 2 mitigate these.
The Board has overall responsibility 2-3 years 3 8 for the management of the Company in order to Board 3 years 3 maximise shareholder value.
In discharging its members responsibilities, the Board is supported by its management together with specialist Committees.
In compliance with the Code, the Board has established three committees: an Audit Committee, THE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for each All Committees will meet not less than twice a year.
Committee were last approved by the Board on25October 2016.
The Board Board responsibilities and activity, reported on page 45 Each Committee works from terms of reference which are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys website: Audit Nomination Remuneration investors.
com Committee Committee Committee These Committees have appropriately skilled Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities members, senior management participation Monitoring the integrity of Determining the structure, size Recommending to the Board andaccess to specialist advice when considered the Groups financial statements and composition of the Board the Companys policy on necessary.
The minutes of the Audit, Nomination executive remuneration Reviewing significant accounting Making recommendations in and Remuneration Committee meetings are sent and reporting judgements relation to the re-election of Setting overarching principles, to all Directors and oral updates are given at Directors retiring by rotation parameters and governance Reviewing the effectiveness Board meetings.
The Audit Committee Report framework of the Groups of the internal audit and Conducting performance which includes an overview of the Companys remuneration policy external audit process evaluations of Directors control and risk management framework can be Determining the individual Reviewing the Groups Succession planning found on pages 47 to 50.
Page 51 describes the remuneration and benefits procedures for detecting and remit and activities of the Nomination Committee.
Report on page 51 package of each of the preventing fraud, bribery and The activities of the Remuneration Committee Companys Executive Directors the governance of anti-money are described in the Directors Remuneration and its Company Secretary laundering systems and controls Report on page 52.
Report on page 52 Report on page 47 The Executive Committee comprises Ian Sutcliffe Executive Committee as Group Chief Executive, Rebecca Worthington See Countryside website: www.
com as Group Chief Financial Officer, Richard Cherry as CEO of the Partnerships division, Graham Cherry as CEO of the Housebuilding division and Risk Management Health and Safety Environment David Simpson as Managing Director of Millgate.
Committee Committee Committee This Committee has over 100 years of combined housebuilding experience, giving it in-depth Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities knowledge of the issues to consider when Monitoring and assessing the Determining the policy, Determining the policy, makingdecisions regarding operational and effectiveness of the Groups objectives and targets for objectives and targets for investment matters.
risk and control processes the Groups health and safety the Groups environmental compliance and performance compliance and performance Co-ordinating the implementation by Ensuring adequate training Ensuring adequate training management of Group and communication to and communication to policies on risk and control achieve the Groups health achieve the Groups and safety objectives environmental objectives Overseeing the administration of the Groups insurance arrangements, providing assurance to the Audit Committee that such monitoring and assessment of the Groups internal control systems is being undertaken 44 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE REVIEW OF BOARD EFFECTIVENESS BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The 2016 Board and Committee evaluation process The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the 2016 started with a written questionnaire for all Directors, financial year is as follows: followed by individual interviews during which Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Overall members were invited to evaluate and comment on Board Committee Committee Committee attendance the operation of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary met 1 Number of meetings held 16 4 6 3 to discuss the results of the process and a report David Howell 15 15 6 6 3 3 100% was submitted to the Board setting out the principal issues raised and suggesting appropriate Ian Sutcliffe 16 16 100% action points.
The principal issues raised in the Rebecca Worthington 15 16 94% 2016 performance evaluation were discussed at 5 the September 2016 Board meeting.
Based on Richard Adam 15 15 4 4 6 6 2 2 100% the feedback received, the Board concluded that Amanda Burton 15 15 4 4 6 6 3 3 100% the Board and its Committees continue to operate Federico Canciani 15 15 3 3 100% effectively.
A list of specific actions was agreed to address the comments made by Directors, including Baroness Morgan 15 15 4 4 6 6 3 3 100% the continued development of the Non-Executive 4 James Van Steenkiste 11 15 73% Directors detailed knowledge of the businesses operated by the Group through a programme of 1.
The number of meetings held reflects the Board and Committee meetings of Copthorn Holdings Limited from 1 October 2015 regular business reviews.
During the 2016 evaluation to 17 December 2015 and the Board and Committee meetings of Countryside Properties PLC from 14 December 2015 to process, the Non-Executive Directors in the absence 30September 2016. of the Chairman met with Richard Adam, as Senior 2.
For the Board meeting of Countryside Properties PLC on 14 December 2015 the only two Directors were Ian Sutcliffe Independent Non-Executive Director, to review andRebecca Worthington.
the performance of David Howell during 2016.
Following her appointment in August 2015, Rebecca Worthington was unable to attend the Board meeting in October 2015 dueto a prior business commitment.
RichardAdam later debriefed the Chairman.
James Van Steenkiste was unable to attend four meetings due to business commitments.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman then 5.
Richard Adam was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee after the meeting on 8 December 2015. met to evaluate the performance of the Group Chief Executive, Ian Sutcliffe.
Finally, the Group Chief Executive joined the meeting to brief the and to help provide the Board with effective Role and responsibilities of the Board Board on the performance of the Group Chief leadership in relation to the Companys strategy, The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders Financial Officer, Rebecca Worthington.
The performance, management risk and people for creating and sustaining shareholder value through performance of theNon-Executive Directors during management as well as ensuring high standards the management of the Groups businesses, and 2016 was reviewed by David Howell, taking into offinancial probity and corporate governance.
for the long-term success of the Group.
It sets account the views of the other Directors.
Countryside believes that the Board has the the Groups strategic plan and budgets, monitors appropriate balance of skills, experience, their implementation and, with the assistance ADDITIONAL INFORMATION independence and knowledge of the Group to ofthe Audit Committee, ensures that Executive Information on the impact on the Company as support the long-term success of theCompany.
Management maintains a system of internal required by the Takeover Directive, and information operational, financial and regulatory controls that required under the Disclosure and Transparency Relationship Agreement withOaktree identify and manage appropriately the risks set Rules, is given in the Directors Report see pages For so long as Oaktree qualifies as a controlling out on pages 38 to 39.
70 to 72 and forms part of this Corporate shareholder according to the Listing Rules LR Governance Report.
4D, the Company is required to have in place Summary of matters a written and legally binding agreement which is reservedfortheBoard THE BOARD intended to ensure that Oaktree complies with The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved Board composition the independence provisions set out in LR 6.1.
for its decision, which includes the approval of The Board consists of eight Directors, comprising Details of the Relationship Agreement entered half-year and full-year financial statements, changes a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors into with Oaktree are set out in the Directors to the Groups capital structure and significant and five further Non-Executive Directors.
Report on page 70. investments, contracts, acquisitions, mergers and RichardAdam is the Senior Independent Director.
These reserved matters were last David Howell, our Chairman, and Richard Adam Full details of the schedule of matters reviewed by the Board on 25 November 2016. are available to shareholders who have concerns reserved for decision by the Board Other specific responsibilities are delegated to that cannot be addressed through the normal  delegated to the the Board Committees, which operate within channels.
For further information about Board Committees can be found here: clearly definedterms of reference.
communication between the Board and shareholders, investors.
com The roles of the Chairman please refer to communication with shareholders andGroupChief Executive on page 46.
The Board has recruited Non-Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Directors of a high calibre with broad commercial are clearly segregated and the division of responsibilities and other relevant experience.
Non-Executive between them is set out in writing and was last Directors are expected to bring objectivity and agreed by the Board on 25 October 2016. independence of view to the Boards discussions, COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 45 .
com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED such concerns may be reflected in the Board minutes.
THE BOARD CONTINUED Tenure, election and Minutes of each Board meeting are circulated by  The roles of the Chairman the Company Secretary following the meeting All Non-Executive Directors, including the andGroupChief Executive continued toallow such comments to be raised.
Chairman, have three-year appointments from The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the 17December 2015.
All Non-Executive Director Board, and ensuring its effectiveness by facilitating Communications withshareholders appointments may be terminated by either party debate and the contribution of Non-Executive The Board places importance on communication upon three months or in the case of David Howell, Directors.
Meeting agendas are set by collaboration with shareholders and gives them the opportunity six months written notice, or by shareholder between the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive to meet the Chairman and Directors as appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
The Group Chief Shareholders will continue to begiven the do not have any entitlement to compensation Executive is responsible for running Countrysides opportunity to meet the Chairman and Directors iftheir office is terminated.
Full details of the business and providing strategic leadership to the in the coming 12 months.
Arrangements can be remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors can Group, in consultation with the Board.
made for major shareholders to meet with any be found on page 63 of the Remuneration Report.
The Companys Directors induction, Under the Articles of Association, all Directors investor relations team organises an ongoing training and development are subject to re-election at the AGM at intervals programme of dialogue and meetings between Countryside has a structured induction of nomorethan three years.
At its meeting on the Group Chief Executive and the Group programme for all newly appointed 25October 2016, the Board agreed that all ChiefFinancial Officer and institutional investors, Non-Executive Directors which includes visits Directors will be put forward for election at fund managers and analysts.
Brokers reports tothe business divisions and their respective the2017 AGM.
The Board believes that each andinvestors feedback are circulated regularly management teams in each of Countrysides ofthe Directors makes a valuable contribution totheBoard, which discusses these and any other business sectors and meetings with members toCountryside and supports their election key matters relating to investors.
In each case the ofthe Executive Committee.
Board, in conjunction with advisors where Directors have access to the Company Secretarys appropriate, determines the strategy to assistance both in orientation and guidance around addresssignificant issues raised.
INVESTOR the Countryside Group, in addition to the exposure ENGAGEMENTTIMELINE gained at regular Board meetings.
The Companys Annual General Meeting The investor relations team, at the direction AGM on 26January 2017 will provide a valuable All Directors receive ongoing updates on the ofthe Board, has primary responsibility for opportunity for the Board to communicate with Companys projects and activities and on legal managing the day-to-day communications private investors.
We encourage shareholders to and regulatory changes.
In 2016 this included with our investors and market analysts.
This attend the meeting and to ask questions of any briefings on the requirements and implementation year, the team has supported the Chairman, ofthe Directors following the conclusion of the of the Modern Slavery Act, the Market Abuse the Group ChiefExecutive, the Group Chief formal part of the meeting.
Regime and compliance obligations of a listed Financial Officer and other members of the company, and monitoring the Companys Directors interests Board and senior management to conduct riskmanagement framework.
Under Countrysides Articles of Association, the aseries of shareholder briefings as follows: Board may authorise any actual or potential conflicts October 2015January 2016: various of interest for Directors.
Each Director provides Details of proxy voting by shareholders, pre-IPO education meetings and site visits the Company Secretary with information regarding including votes withheld, will be made to Acton, London: any actual or potential interests that may conflict available on request and will be placed on with those of Countryside, such as other 26 January 201611 February 2016: the the Companys website following theAGM.
directorships, and any other potential interests IPO management roadshow: www.
com that each thinks may cause a conflict requiring May 2016: the half-year results roadshow: Formal papers are circulated to the Directors prior Board authorisation on an annual basis.
before each Board meeting, which enable them Ifthe circumstances of any of these disclosed 10 June 2016: the City analyst education to makean informed decision on the issues under interests change, the relevant Director is required presentation: consideration.
In addition to formal Board meetings, to update the Company Secretary promptly.
June 2016: presentation at Peel Hunts during 2016 the Chairman maintained regular Theregister setting out each Directors current Building, Infrastructure and Support contact with the Group Chief Executive, the disclosures where relevant was last reviewed Services Conference: Group Chief Financial Officer and other members and approved by the Board at its meeting on of Executive Committee to discuss specific issues.
In each such situation, the 6 September 2016: Numis hosted The Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Director under consideration did not vote on investors lunch: and Board on matters concerning governance and thematter.
The Board will continue to review 13 September 2016: participation at ensures compliance with Board procedures.
All theregister of interests regularly to ensure the JPMorgans small mid cap conference.
Directors had access to the Company Secretarys authorisations, and any conditions attached to advice and during 2016 this was sought from them, are appropriate for the relevant matter Various other individual meetings and site timeto time.
Directors may also take independent toremain authorised.
TheCompany Secretary visits with investors were hosted by various professional advice at the Companys expense.
maintains a list of all authorisations granted to Directors and senior managers.
Inthe event that any Director has concerns about Directors, setting out the date of authorisation the running of the Company, or a proposed action, and its expiry, scope and any limitations imposed which cannot be resolved within the Board forum, as applicable.
