com BOARD OF DIRECTORS OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM Countryside operates through its Board of Directors with day-to-day operation conducted by the Executive Committee.
David Howell Ian Sutcliffe Rebecca Worthington Richard Adam Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment date December 2015 November 2015 November 2015 December 2015 Skills David Howell joined the Group in Ian Sutcliffe joined the Group in Rebecca Worthington joined the Richard Adam joined the Group in April 2014 as a Non-Executive October 2013 as Executive Chairman Group in August 2015 as Chief April 2015 as a Non-Executive Director Director of Copthorn Holdings of Copthorn Holdings Limited and was Financial Officer of Copthorn of Copthorn Holdings Limited.
Limited and was appointed appointed Group Chief Executive in Holdings Limited.
He is a chartered accountant with Non-Executive Chairman of that January 2015.
She qualified as a chartered accountant nearly 30 years of experience as company in January 2015.
He previously held a number of with  LLP finance director of private and listed He is a chartered accountant with senior roles at Shell before being in 1997.
She subsequently worked at businesses having gained a wealth extensive experience working across appointed UK Managing Director Quintain Estates and Development plc ofexperience from executive and a number of different industry ofGeorge Wimpey and subsequently for 15 years, first as Finance Director non-executive roles spanning the sectors as either an executive or UK Chief Executive and a Board and latterly as Deputy Chief Executive.
media, infrastructure, construction non-executive director.
His last member of Taylor Wimpey.
He Following that she spent two years andservices sectors.
Hewas three executive roles were as followed this with a similar role as Chief Executive of Lodestone previously Group Finance Director Chairman of Western & Oriental plc, atSEGRO, before becoming Chief Capital Limited, a business advising ofAssociated British Ports Holdings Chief Financial Officer and a member Executive of Keepmoat Limited.
on operational real estate assets.
plc and aNon-Executive Director of the Board of lastminute.
com plc ofSSLInternational plc, where Rebecca was a Non-Executive and Group Finance Director of healsoserved as Chairman Director and Chairmanof FirstChoice Holidays plc.
theAuditCommittee of was a Non-Executive Director of AgaRangemaster Group plc TheBerkeley Group Holdings plc until23September 2015. for over ten years where he chaired the Audit Committee until 2014.
External appointments Ianis a Non-Executive Director of Rebecca is a Non-Executive Director Richard is the Group Finance Ashtead Group plc.
Director of FTSE 250 support services business Carillion plc andaNon-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of Countrywide plc.
Committee membership Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Chair Nomination Committee Audit Committee Chair 42 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE Amanda Burton Federico Canciani Baroness Morgan of Huyton James Van Steenkiste Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Appointment date December 2015 December 2015 December 2015 December 2015 Skills Amanda Burton joined the Group Federico Canciani joined the Group in Baroness Morgan joined the Group James Van Steenkiste joined the Group inOctober 2014 as a Non-Executive April 2013 as a Non-Executive Director inOctober 2014 as a Non-Executive in April 2013 as a Non-Executive Director of Copthorn Holdings Limited.
Director of Copthorn Holdings Limited.
She joined Clifford Chance LLP in 2000 His prior experience includes She had a long and successful career He has previously worked for where she left in December 2014 as corporate finance and mergers and in central Government, serving as UBSWarburg LLC as an investment their Global Chief Operating Officer.
acquisitions with Goldman Sachs Director of Government Relations banking analyst, gaining experience Prior to this, she was at Meyer International in London and private at 10 Downing Street from 2001 to in financings, restructurings, leveraged International plc where she was equity positions with Nomura 2005.
Prior to this, she was Political buy-outs, recapitalisations and mergers aDirector and Chairman of its Timber Principle Finance Group and Secretary to the Prime Minister from and acquisitions.
She also served nine years on TerraFirma Capital Partners Limited.
1997 to 2001 and was appointed at Donaldson, Luftkin & Jenrette the Board at Galliford Try plc as a He received a Laurea Degree in Minister for Women and Equalities asan investment banking analyst.
Non-Executive Director from 2005 Business Administration from the in 2001.
She was made a life peer Hereceived a BBA degree from the and as Senior Independent Director Universit Commerciale Luigi inthe same year.
She previously School of Business Administration from 2008.
Bocconi in Milan, Italy, in 1999. served as a Board member for atthe University of Michigan.
theOlympic Delivery Authority, asChairman of Ofsted and as a member of the advisory committee of Virgin Group HoldingsLimited.
External appointments Amanda is a Non-Executive Director Federico is a Managing Director of Baroness Morgan is a Non-Executive James is a Managing Director of of Monitise plc, HSS Hire Group plc Oaktree, having joined the firm in 2006 Director of Dixons Carphone plc, an Oaktree, having joined the firm in and Skipton Building Society and from Matlin Patterson Advisors advisor to the board of the childrens 2002.
He is a Non-executive Director Chairman and Trustee of Battersea Europe LLP.
He is a Director charity ARK, Vice Chairman of Kings of Bavaria Yachtbau, Pegasus Life Dogs and Cats Home.
ofBreeze Midco TNC Limited College, London, and a trustee of a Limited, Silver Holdings AS, Saloro SL andBreeze Bidco TNC Limited.
Committee membership Remuneration Committee Chair NominationCommittee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 43
