GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONCOMMITTEE REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONCOMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, The report below describes the main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee and how it achieved these in 2016.
I would like to draw your attention to what we achieved in 2016 and what we will focus on in 2017.
Following the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in February 2016, the Nomination Committees main focus in 2016 was to monitor the functioning of the Board and to satisfy itself that the Board had the right balance of skills and experience to enable it to provide leadership and accountability.
It was therefore pleasing to see that the feedback from the Board effectiveness evaluation process which you can read about on page 45 provided confirmation that the Board, and the Board Committees, continue to operate effectively.
The Board is responsible for Committee Chairman succession generally, but the Nomination Committee will advise David Howell the Boardon appropriate succession planning in theyear ahead.
Other members David Howell Amanda Burton Chairman of the Nomination Committee Sally Morgan 28 November 2016 Federico Canciani Richard Adam REVIEW OF BOARD COMPOSITION Meetings held The Nomination Committee leads the process for all Board appointments and is responsible forreviewing candidates and 3 making a final recommendation to the Board, in compliance with the Code.
The Nomination Committee alsoreviews the structure, Role and responsibilities of the Nomination size and membership ofthe Board itself, as well as Board Committee: Committees from time to time, to ensure an appropriate mix of Determining the structure, size and composition of experience and skills, as well as the orderly refreshing as required.
the Board During 2016, the composition of the Nomination Committee complied with theCode, comprising a majority of independent Making recommendations in relation tothe Non-Executive Directors.
re-election of Directors retiring byrotation The Nomination Committee recognises that diversity, in all its Conducting performance evaluations ofDirectors dimensions, across an organisation, including at Board level, is important to support innovation, strategic development and operational efficiency.
The Nomination Committee will consider Activity in 2016 candidates for appointment as Non-Executive Directors from a Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and wider pool, including those with limited or no listed company diversity of experience of the Board and, in light of experience.
It is not the Boards policy to have specific voluntary such evaluation, preparing descriptions of the role and targets, but it will continue to recruit Board members based on the capabilities required for any appointment skills and experience, having regard to the requirements of the Code Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly succession in respect of diversity, including gender.
for appointments to the Board and senior management, The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year.
During to retain an appropriate balance of skills and experience 2016 it met three times, to agree asuccession plan strategy for within Countryside and on the Board the Directors and senior management, and to review the findings The Nomination Committees terms of reference are ofthe 2016 Board and Committee evaluation.
The Nomination located on Countrysides website at: Committee also reviewed the composition of the Audit Committee investors.
com and reviewed the Board diversity policy for submission to the Board.
While no new appointments were made during 2016, there is a Areas of focus in 2016 rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board Following the Companys flotation in February 2016, the and its Committees, involving undertaking an assessment of the principal area of focus for the Committee has been skills and capabilities required, drafting a description of the role, reviewing succession planning and talent development.
and carrying out an assessment of potential candidates, before making a recommendation to the Board.
