CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE LENGTH OF TENURE The principal role of the Nomination Committee is to keep under review the structure, The length of tenure for the current size and composition of the Board and to consider the optimal level of independence and Non-Executive Directors is as follows: diversity of skills, knowledge, experience and gender required for the Board to operate effectively.
It is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on 0-3 years new appointments of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also gives due consideration 4-6 years to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and 33% opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise needed within the Board and senior management in the future.
COMPOSITION The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Davey and includes the independent Non-Executive Directors Steven Esom, Kate Allum and Mark Reckitt.
Only members of the 67% Committee have the right to attend meetings however the Chief Executive and Finance Director attend for all or part of the meetings by invitation as and when required.
The Company Secretary also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR The attendance of members at the one meeting held during the year was as follows: Committee members Meetings attended Percentage attended Martin Davey 1 100% Steven Esom 1 100% Kate Allum 1 100% Mark Reckitt 1 100% ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee considered the following matters during the year: STRUCTURE, SIZE, COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY BOARD BALANCE The Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals with the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership of the Industry Company.
There are no plans to change the make-up of the current Board at the Finance present time.
43% 57% 58 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information SUCCESSION PLANNING The Boards commitment to succession planning and talent management is highlighted through the training that is taking place across the Group.
This includes an apprenticeship scheme, and graduate development and management leadership programmes.
The Committee also considered this year, in conjunction with the whole Board and as part of the development of the business, the appointment of further senior executives to support the Executive Directors as the Group continues to expand.
DIVERSITY POLICY The Committee has reviewed the Groups diversity policy.
The policy provides for equality and fairness, recognising and respecting individual strengths and differences.
The policy enables all employees and prospective employees to be treated in the same way.
Whilst the Board and Nomination Committee respects the benefits of diversity and supports it in its approach to external recruitment and internal appointments, it is not considered appropriate or necessary to set any specific or measurable targets.
All appointments are made on individual merit regardless of race, colour, nationality, religion, gender, marital status, family status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
The Groups principal concern is to ensure that all candidates have the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to fulfil the role.
It is pleasing to report however, that females represent 34 per cent of the total workforce and 26 per cent of senior managers and executives.
Total Employees Main Board Senior Managers and Executives Male 3,735 Male 6 Male 395 Female 1,889 Female 1 Female 139 14% 26% 34% 66% 74% 86% The Committee also considered its Terms of Reference to ensure they reflect the Committees remit.
BOARD CHANGES There have been no Board changes in the year to 31 March 2016.
All Directors will be standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting its reasons for supporting the re-election of the Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Their biographical details on pages 46 and 47 demonstrate the range of experience and skills which each brings to the benefit of the Company.
The Committee has considered the current discussions on director overboarding and it is pleased to note that there are no issues at the current time.
It believes that the Directors have sufficient time and energy to be effective representatives of Shareholders interests.
The Board undertook an annual review of the Board and its Committees performance and effectiveness and the results will be incorporated into the Committees processes and activities for year ending 31 March 2017.
Further details of this review are reported in the Governance Report on page 50.
The Chair of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
On behalf of the Committee Martin Davey Chair of the Nomination Committee 24 May 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 59
