Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Committee during the year ended 31 March 2016.
This report sets out: the role, composition, activities and responsibilities of the Audit Committee: a summary of the meetings of the Audit Committee during the year: the significant issues related to the financial statements: the Committees oversight of the Groups Risk Management and internal control systems: and the respective roles and effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
The Committee met three times during the year and invited the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit to attend the meetings along with the external audit partner and director.
The Committee also held separate private meetings with internal and external audit.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the financial results for the full year and half year and the quarterly trading statements, including applicable accounting policies, key judgement areas, going concern and viability assumptions.
The Committee also reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts taken as a whole to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Specific areas of focus during the year included: impairment review of goodwill, intangible and tangible fixed assets: the accounting treatment and disclosure of the post year end acquisition of CCL Holdings Limited: the quantum and appropriateness of commercial accruals: the accounting treatment and disclosure of biological assets: and assessment of the Groups viability under the new requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee reviewed internal audits terms of reference and work plans and oversaw the Groups relationship with the external auditors including scope, fees and work performed.
The Committee was satisfied with the performance of the Groups internal audit function and the external auditor.
As reported previously, the Committee has considered the timing of the tender of the external audit contract and has agreed that this will take place during the year ending 31 March 2017, which is when the current audit partners tenure will end.
On behalf of the Board Mark Reckitt Chair of the Audit Committee 24 May 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees primary role is to assist the Board in providing effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, Risk Management and internal control systems.
It is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and considering whether accounting policies are appropriate.
It reviews the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, and approves and reviews the activities, plans and effectiveness of both the Groups internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board annually, are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors.
Membership of the Committee and attendance during the year are set out below: Committee members Meetings attended Percentage attended Mark Reckitt 3 100% Steven Esom 3 100% Kate Allum 3 100% All members of the Committee have extensive managerial experience in large complex organisations and have a wide range of financial, commercial and operational expertise.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Mark Reckitt, the Committee Chairman, meets this requirement.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and its agenda is linked to the Group financial calendar.
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend each meeting.
The Company Secretary also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
Both the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit have the opportunity to access the Committee, without the Executive Directors being present, at any time, and the Committee formally meets with both the external auditors and internal audit independently, at least once a year.
PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities include reviewing and monitoring: the integrity of the Groups financial statements: the Groups accounting policies: the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems: the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management framework: the effectiveness, scope, cost and independence of the Groups external auditor: the Companys whistleblowing and anti-bribery policies: and the Groups viability, and its disclosure within the Annual Report.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the removal, appointment or reappointment of the Groups external auditors.
The Committee also reviews its terms of reference annually and makes recommendations to the Board for any appropriate changes.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE In addition, at the request of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed and reported to the Board that it is satisfied that the financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In order to give this report the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: obtaining confirmation from the relevant preparers of the various parts of the Annual Report that they had reviewed the fairness and completeness of their sections: ensuring a thorough verification process had been completed: consideration of the Annual Report & Accounts in the context of the Audit Committees knowledge and experience of the business: holding discussions with both internal and external audit: and reviewing and discussing a paper from the Finance Director outlining issues to consider and why he believed the Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board and the Committee understand that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, balanced should mean even-handed in terms of being positive and negative and understandable should mean simple, clear and free from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
54 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information VIABILITY STATEMENT The Group has included enhanced risk reporting and a Viability Statement within the Report & Accounts for the first time this year reflecting the new requirement of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed and reported to the Board that it is satisfied with the enhanced risk disclosures and Viability Statement which have been made.
In order to give this report the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: reviewing enhanced risk reporting: considering the appropriateness of the three year time horizon selected for testing the Groups viability: reviewing the Group annual budget and extended three year forecast and the assumptions therein for reasonableness: agreeing appropriate downside sensitivities to be applied to the forecasts for stress testing based on the Groups principal risks and the work of the Risk Committee: and reviewing the availability of debt funding for the Group across the three year forecast period.
The Board and the Committee concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be viable across the three year time horizon.
FINANCIAL REPORTING During the year the Audit Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared by management and considered, with input from the external auditors, the appropriateness of the main accounting policies, estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements.
The key matters that the Committee considered in reviewing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 are set out below.
Financial reporting area Judgement and assurance considered Impairment of goodwill, tangible The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets by comparing and intangible assets the book value of each asset with its recoverable amount.
The Committee reviewed the reasonableness of cash flow projections which were based on the latest Board approved budget and the long-term growth and discount rate assumptions underpinning the calculations.
As in previous years, goodwill related to the Sandwiches cash generating unit CGU was subject to particular scrutiny as this business is most sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions.
At the half year, following a change in its customer base which reduced the expected future revenues, calculations of forecast performance gave a value in use below the carrying amount for the CGU and consequently an impairment charge of 4.6 million was recognised at the interim stage.
Further review at the year-end established that no further impairment of the asset was required.
The Committee also reviewed and challenged some of the key assumptions supporting the carrying value and amortisation rate of the customer relationship intangible asset acquired through the purchase of Benson Park Limited and also considered, in light of FRC guidance in this area, the separate disclosure of the amortisation charge on the face of the income statement.
After thorough discussion and review of the external auditors reports to the Audit Committee, the Committee agreed with managements judgements.
Acquisitions Crown Subsequent to the year end, the Group acquired CCL Holdings Limited and its 100 per cent subsidiary Crown Chicken Limited, a company engaged in the breeding, rearing and processing of British chickens, for net cash consideration of 39.3 million.
The Committee reviewed managements proposed accounting treatment, and the valuation methodology which was based on internal due diligence work and reports by external advisers and consultants.
The provisional allocation of the purchase price, between tangible assets, intangible assets and goodwill was subject to particular scrutiny.
The external auditors also challenged the key assumptions used in the allocation methodology.
The Committee, after a thorough review of all the information, agreed with managements approach to the provisional allocation of the purchase price and will continue to consider this during the measurement period prior to the allocations ceasing to be provisional.
Commercial accruals The Committee reviewed the level of commercial accruals for rebates, discounts and promotional activity at the balance sheet date.
The level of commercial accruals is viewed by the Committee, management and the external auditor as an area of particular sensitivity requiring a degree of commercial judgement.
The Committee also noted the FRCs guidance on complex supplier arrangements and reviewed internal guidance to Cranswick divisions involved in selling to particular customers.
After reviewing the level of accruals and the intra-year movement, including the impact on profit and considering the work of internal and external audit in verifying the underlying contractual arrangements including the confirmation of the terms of agreements directly with some of the Groups key customers by the external auditor, the Committee supported managements assumptions and accounting treatment.
Biological assets In accordance with IAS 41, biological assets are valued at fair value in the Group balance sheet, with the net valuation movement disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
The valuation of biological assets was deemed, by the Committee and management, to be an area requiring particular focus this year due to the 17 per cent fall in the average pig price compared to the previous year.
The Audit Committee reviewed managements proposed accounting treatment and was satisfied that the standard had been fairly and consistently applied and the required disclosures made in the financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Committee conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems through the work of internal audit, the external auditors Control Themes and Observations Report on the Groups financial control environment, following their audit and through review and challenge of monthly Board reports.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing and bribery prevention policies.
The Committee reviewed the key conclusions from work performed by the Group Risk Committee during the year to gain assurance over the risk management framework in place across the Group, which is designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk.
The Committee was satisfied that this framework is operating effectively.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance and effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit activities.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the annual Internal Audit plan and received regular updates on progress on delivering the plan objectives at each of its meetings during the year.
The internal audit approach takes into account the overall Group risk framework, as well as risks specific to individual operations.
The plan set out at the beginning of the current year was achieved.
Internal Audit findings together with responses from management were considered by the Audit Committee and where necessary challenged.
The Audit Committee also reviewed progress by management in addressing the issues identified on a timely basis.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the Internal Audit function is operating effectively.
During the course of the year Internal Audit performed a core financial controls review at all sites and also reviewed specific Group nonfinancial risk areas.
Overall no material control failings were identified, however, recommendations were raised where necessary at specific sites to strengthen existing processes and controls, and follow-up audit visits were carried out at the majority of sites to ensure that agreed corrective actions were being taken.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups auditor since 1972.
The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In addition to the year end audit, Ernst & Young LLP carried out a review on the Groups Interim Reporting for the first time this year.
The Committee considers that such a review gives the Board additional confidence over the half year process and reporting.
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Committee periodically reviews the tendering of the external audit, the last tender process being in 2008.
Subject to ongoing satisfactory performance of the external auditors, the Committee will retender the external audit during the year ending 31 March 2017 to ensure that a new audit appointment takes effect at the end of the current audit partners five-year term.
Ernst & Young LLP will not be invited to participate in this process due to the length of their tenure as the Groups auditors and observing the spirit of recent Corporate Governance guidance and EU regulation.
The Group has commenced the tender process and has shortlisted audit firms to be invited to tender.
Formal requests to tender will be completed during the summer with a view to selecting new auditors by September 2016 to ensure a smooth transition going forward.
The Audit Committee also approves the terms of engagement and remuneration of the external auditors and monitors their independence.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS During the year, the Committee assessed the external auditors performance and effectiveness through a questionnaire completed by Audit Committee members and the Groups senior finance team.
The output from the process was reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee and with the external auditors.
The Committee also considered the external auditors experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan had been met, the robustness and perceptiveness of work performed on key accounting and audit judgements and the content of its reports on audit findings, whilst noting some of the observations made.
The Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE The Group meets its obligations for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors through the Audit Committee, whose terms of reference include a requirement to consider and monitor the level of non-audit work performed by the external auditor, to ensure such objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
There is an established policy concerning the types of non-audit services the external auditors should not carry out to avoid compromising their independence and these include internal accounting or other financial services, executive or management roles or functions and remuneration consultancy.
The Chair of the Audit Committee is consulted prior to awarding to the external auditors any non-audit services in excess of 30,000.
56 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and considered the following factors to assess the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP: The auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring independence, including those to ensure that the partners and staff have no personal or business relationships with the Group, other than those in the normal course of business permitted by UK ethical guidance.
The auditors policies for rotation of the audit partner every five years, and regular rotation of key audit personnel.
The current audit partner was selected by Ernst & Young LLP for the year ended 31 March 2013 with the current audit director and senior manager joining the audit team for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The nature of non-audit work undertaken during the year and its approval in accordance with the Audit Committees guidelines for ensuring independence.
Adherence to the Groups internal policy that, other than in exceptional circumstances, the fees paid to the external auditors in any one year should not exceed 70 per cent of the external audit fee on average over the last three years.
A report from Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they have adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
Details of the non-audit work and fees paid during the year are set out below: Non-audit fees 000 Tax advisory services 1 Interim review 15 Other services 129 Total Non-Audit Fees 145 Total Audit Fees 215 Ratio of Non-Audit Fees to Audit Fees 0.75:1 Based on a three year average audit fee of 193,000.
The non-audit fees for the year were marginally higher than the Groups internal guideline of 70 per cent of the external audit fee on average over the last three years.
The Audit Committee considered that this was due to exceptional circumstances, with the due diligence work in relation to the acquisition of Crown being awarded to Ernst & Young LLP because they had already carried out significant preliminary work on this project in earlier years and it was therefore more cost-effective for them to carry out the work due to their accumulated knowledge.
The work undertaken by the external auditors during the year and the safeguards considered by the Audit Committee to address any threats to independence included the following: i The auditors provided limited tax advice.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate tax partner.
ii Ernst & Young LLP advised the Company on a number of corporate transactions during the year.
Following a tender for this type of work in the year ended 31 March 2012, and given the nature of the work during the following years the Committee concluded that Ernst & Young LLP were best placed to carry out this work.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate corporate transactions partner and through prior approval by the Chair of the Audit Committee on a case-by-case basis.
The Audit Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, Investor body guidelines on non-audit fees and the policy of awarding non-audit services is kept under review to ensure that the correct balance is maintained between the Group realising cost-effective benefits from the accumulated knowledge and experience of Ernst & Young LLP, whilst also making sure that their audit independence and objectivity is maintained.
The Audit Committees concerns were demonstrated by the appointment of  LLP in 2013 to manage tax compliance.
Following consideration of the performance and independence of the external auditors at its meeting in May 2016, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys external auditors should be proposed to Shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Mark Reckitt Chair of the Audit Committee 24 May 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 57
