CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is committed to adopting and maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Principles are applied at Board level and cascade throughout the organisation.
PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
This report, together with the Audit Committee Report, on pages 53 to 57, the Nomination Committee Report, on pages 58 and 59, and the Remuneration Committee Report, on pages 60 to 71, describes how the Board applies the principles of good governance and best practice as set out in the Code which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Directors are pleased to report that they have complied with the requirements of the Code during the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Board believes that it has the appropriate blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to support the business.
The Board will continue to ensure an optimal level of relevant skills experience and diversity amongst its members, appropriate to support the future needs of the business.
The Directors have reviewed the financial statements and, taken as a whole, consider them to be fair, balanced and understandable, providing sufficient and appropriate information for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee provided guidance to the Board to assist them in reaching this conclusion.
In reaching this conclusion the Board has taken account of the following: the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Finance Director provide input to and agree on the overall messages and tone of the Annual Report at an early stage: individual sections of the Annual Report are drafted by senior management and are reviewed to make certain there is consistency in the whole document: a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the auditors and is discussed with the Finance Director and the senior finance team prior to consideration by the Board: and the Finance Director presents the final draft of the Annual Report to the Board who consider the fairness whether it is reasonable and impartial: the balance both positive and negative messages are portrayed: and whether it is understandable in a simple and clear way.
LEADERSHIP BOARD COMPOSITION The Board consists of an Executive Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other full-time Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent in accordance with the definition highlighted in the Code.
Further biographical details on each Director can be found on pages 46 and 47.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee to ensure there is an effective balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board leads the Group and during the year directed, developed and implemented strategy and monitored its operating performance.
It is collectively responsible and accountable to Shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
To enable the members of the Board to discharge these responsibilities, they have full and timely access to all relevant information and Board meetings are held at several of the Groups production facilities allowing the Directors to review the operations and meet the management teams of those particular sites.
All Directors have allocated sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
DIVISION OF BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES Chairman Chief Executive Chairs Board meetings, the Nomination Committee and the AGM.
Develops the Groups strategy with input from the rest of the Sets the Board meeting agenda in consultation with the Chief Board and its advisers.
Leads implementation of the Groups strategy.
Leads the performance evaluation of the Board and ensures its Leads the direction of the business.
effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Chairs the Executive Management Committee.
Sponsors and promotes the highest corporate governance and Manages the day-to-day business of the Group.
Brings matters of particular significance or risk to the Chairman Ensures all Directors are able to maximise their contributions to for discussion and consideration by the Board where appropriate.
Provides a sounding board for the Chief Executive on key business decisions and challenges proposals where appropriate.
Meets with major Shareholders on governance matters and is an alternate point of contact for Shareholders on other matters.
48 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 e P c k S n e s u i a o c R n p c r Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Responsible for all matters affecting the Group.
Supports the Chairman, and provides a means by which Provide specialist knowledge and experience to the Board.
Shareholders may raise concerns which normal channels have Responsible for the implementation of strategy, policies, budgets failed to resolve.
and financial performance of the Group.
Responsible for the successful leadership and management of Conducts the Chairmans annual performance evaluation.
commercial, risk and finance functions across the Group.
Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Bring experience and complementary skills to the Board.
Aid constructive debate and challenge during Board discussions.
Acts as secretary to the Board and each of its Committees.
Help develop strategy with an independent outlook.
Ensures the Company complies with all governance matters.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee, consisting of the Executive Directors and senior executives from the business, meets frequently to discuss operational and commercial matters affecting the business.
These meetings also provide a forum for the Executive Directors to share the Boards strategic aims and objectives with senior colleagues across the business.
The Executive Committee reports to the Board.
GROUP GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure that there is independent oversight of internal controls and risk management, the Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal committees.
Membership of these committees consists primarily of the independent Non-Executive Directors apart from the Risk and Executive Committees which consist of the Executive Directors and senior executives.
EFFECTIVENESS BOARD FOCUS DURING THE YEAR Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary maintains a twelve-month rolling programme of agenda items to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
Board Activity in 2015-16 During the financial year, key activities of the Board included: Strategy Governance and risk Regularly reviewing strategy at Board and executive management Reviewing the principal financial and non-financial risks to which meetings throughout the year.
the Group is exposed supported by the Audit Committee.
Receiving presentations from operational management on future Approving the three year forecasts in support of the strategic opportunities.
Considering potential acquisition opportunities and other Participating in and receiving a report evaluating annual strategic initiatives.
Considering and subsequently approving the acquisition of Reviewing quarterly Health & Safety updates.
Reviewing the Directors conflict of interest register.
Reviewing current terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Approving the Groups Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and Policy.
Discussing the rotation of auditors in compliance with the Code supported by the Audit Committee.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 49 l e d e e s v n s o i a a o G n n d P y e M g r o f e o n t i r a t r o m t r S a i n n g c e CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Performance monitoring People and succession Reviewing monthly reports on performance from the Chief Receiving updates and proposals on senior management Executive, Finance Director and Commercial Director.
Recommending the 2014-15 final dividend and approving Reviewing the structure, size, composition and diversity the 2015-16 interim dividend.
of both the Board and its Committees supported by the Approving the Groups full year and interim results.
Approving the Groups annual budget.
Reviewing the effects of the introduction of the Living Wage, albeit minimum wage is already in operation.
Reviewing reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Approving capital expenditure proposals in excess of 1 million.
DIRECTOR INDUCTIONS On appointment, all Directors receive a comprehensive introduction to the Groups activities and a tailored induction programme covering their duties and responsibilities as Directors.
They are also provided with the opportunity for ongoing training.
This ensures that they stay up-to-date with relevant legislative changes and the general business environment.
Directors can obtain independent advice at the expense of the Company.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST The Board has completed its annual review of the register relating to potential conflicts of interest with its Directors and confirms that no such conflicts exist.
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board this year, led by the Chairman, carried out an internal evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees under a system based on a questionnaire circulated to all Directors which was used to facilitate a Board discussion.
Based on the evaluation exercise the Board concluded that it, and its Committees, were working effectively and a small number of improvement actions were agreed which included: Developing a more focused implementation plan for strategic initiatives.
Improving the timeliness of information flow to the Board.
Increasing the frequency of the Boards formal appraisal of Group risks from one to three times each financial year.
The Chairman has evaluated the performance of individual Directors.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, met, without the Chairman present, to appraise his performance.
The last external Board evaluation was undertaken in the year ended 31 March 2014.
The next external evaluation will be undertaken in the year ending 31 March 2017.
BOARD MEETINGS The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year and in addition a number of other meetings and conference calls were convened for specific business matters.
All Directors are expected to attend the Annual General Meeting, scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings unless they are prevented from doing so by prior work or extenuating personal commitments.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting they have the opportunity to review relevant papers and discuss any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman, or Committee Chair as appropriate, also briefs any Director not present to update them on key matters discussed and decisions taken.
Details of Board membership and attendance at scheduled Board meetings are set out below: Board Number of possible meetings Actual meetings Percentage Board members During 2015-16 attended attended attended Executive Directors Martin Davey 8 8 100% Adam Couch 8 8 100% Mark Bottomley 8 8 100% Jim Brisby 8 8 100% Non-Executive Directors Steven Esom 8 8 100% Kate Allum 8 8 100% Mark Reckitt 8 8 100% 1.
The Company Secretary attended all Board and Committee meetings.
All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in July 2015.
50 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information BOARD TENURE 1-3 years 4-6 years 7-9 years 2 2 10 years and greater 1 2 Directors biographies and membership of the various Committees are shown on pages 46 and 47.
The formal terms of reference for the Board Committees together with the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Mark Reckitt.
Marks biography which sets out his relevant skills and experience can be found on page 47.
Martin Davey, Adam Couch, Mark Bottomley, the Group Financial Controller and the Head of Internal Audit attend the meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity.
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity of financial statements and related announcements and all aspects of internal control.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year: two of these meetings involve a review of the Groups interim and full year financial statements.
A Risk Committee chaired by the Finance Director and including representatives from all areas of the business meets quarterly and reports direct to the Audit Committee, updating the Board accordingly.
The work, responsibilities and governance of the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 53 to 57.
The Chair of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Steven Esom.
Martin Davey, Adam Couch and Mark Bottomley attend the meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity.
No Director attends any part of a meeting at which their own remuneration is discussed.
The Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms and conditions of service for each Executive Director.
It determines appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and long-term incentive schemes and approves awards and the issue of options, in accordance with the terms of those schemes.
The Remuneration Committee also, in consultation with the Chief Executive, monitors the total individual remuneration package of senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share option and other share awards.
The Remuneration Committee has access to advice from the Company Secretary and from external advisers who provide detailed analysis of executive remuneration in comparable companies.
Details of the Committees current remuneration policies are given in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 60 to 71.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Davey and includes Steven Esom, Kate Allum and Mark Reckitt.
The Committee meets at least once a year and reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on new appointments of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group relating to skills and expertise needed on the Board and within senior management in the future.
Details of the Committees activities are given in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 58 and 59.
The Chair of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED ACCOUNTABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, which safeguards the Shareholders investment and the Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board.
The organisational structure has been designed in order to develop, plan, execute, monitor and control the Groups objectives effectively and to ensure that internal control is embedded in the operations.
As noted in the Audit Committee Report on pages 53 to 57, the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control and Risk Management frameworks and reported to the Board that the business maintains a sound Risk Management control system and that it was not aware of any significant deficiency, or material weakness, in the system of internal control.
The Board confirms that the key ongoing processes and features of the Groups internal, risk-based, control system have been fully operative throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Group prepares an annual budget and half year re-forecast that are agreed by the Board, and this year the budget for the year ending 31 March 2017 has been extended to include a three year forecast for consideration to support the Viability Statement.
Operational management are required to report monthly to the Board on financial performance.
The use of standard reporting by all Group entities ensures that information is presented in a consistent manner which facilitates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Site directors and finance heads are required to sign a monthly confirmation that their business has complied with the Groups accounting policies and procedures, with a more detailed confirmation provided with half year and year end reporting.
REMUNERATION A separate Remuneration Report is set out on pages 60 to 71 and provides details of the Groups remuneration policy and how it has been implemented, together with the activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The Committee continues to monitor the executive incentive scheme and believes the incentives provide a strong alignment between Shareholders, the Executive Directors and the wider senior executive management team.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships with all Shareholders, who are kept informed of significant Company developments.
Presentations are made by the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Commercial Director, to analysts and institutional Shareholders on the half year and full year results and on Company strategy.
A similar presentation is made to Shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting.
Significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The Companys Annual and Interim Reports and Stock Exchange announcements can be found on the Groups website.
The views of Shareholders, expressed during meetings, are communicated by the Chairman or the Chief Executive, as appropriate, to the Board as a whole.
Through this process the Boards Executive and Non-Executive Directors are able to gain a sound understanding of the views and concerns of the major Shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive or the Finance Director discusses governance and strategy with major Shareholders from time to time.
Other Directors are available to meet the Companys major Shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to listen to the views of Shareholders, particularly if they have concerns which contact with the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Principles of corporate governance and voting guidelines issued by the Companys institutional Shareholders and their representative bodies are circulated to and considered by the Board.
The Board also welcomes the attendance and questions of Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting which is also attended by the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
By order of the Board Malcolm Windeatt Company Secretary 24 May 2016 52 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
