Directors Report | Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 December 2016 We will ensure a healthy pipeline of talent is emerging for future Executive and Board roles.
Anita Frew Chairman of the Nomination Committee To identify and nominate candidates to Members and attendance Responsibilities fillBoard vacancies, for the approval of eligibility at meetings held The Committee is responsible for the Board, as and when openings arise during the year ended nominating candidates for appointment 31December 2016 To keep the organisations leadership to the Board for approval by the Board, needs, both Executive and Nonand for succession planning.
It evaluates Anita Frew Executive, under review to ensure that the balance of skills, knowledge, Chairman 3 3 Croda continues to compete effectively experience and diversity on the Board, Alan Ferguson inthe marketplace and identifies and nominates suitable Independent Non-Executive 3 3 To review annually the time required candidates for appointment to theBoard.
Steve Foots froma Non-Executive Director and Group Chief Executive 3 3 Key responsibilities theChairman Helena Ganczakowski To review regularly the structure, size To make recommendations on Independent Non-Executive 3 3 andcomposition including the skills, succession planning for the Board.
Nigel Turner knowledge, experience and diversity of Independent Non-Executive 3 3 the Board and make recommendations Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Steve Williams for any changes to the Board Committees terms of reference, which Independent Non-Executive 3 3 can be found at www.
To give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior Executives in the course of its work, takinginto account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and, consequently, what skills and expertise theBoard will need in future Where a Board vacancy is identified, toevaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board andprepare a description of the role andcapabilities required for the respective appointment Croda International Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Dear fellow shareholder, The Committee regularly reviews the Board Looking ahead to 2017 diversity policy.
In terms of gender diversity, Main activities and priorities in 2016 25% of the members of the Board are In addition to our routine business, Dr. Keith Layden, Chief Technology Officer female.
Regarding all appointments to the during the year the Committee will: and President, Life Sciences, will retire on Board, whether for Non-Executive or Continue to review the balance, 1May 2017.
The Nomination Committee Executive positions, we consider carefully experience and skills of the Board, spent time discussing and planning for the benefits of greater diversity, including paying particular attention to the Keiths retirement and succession.
The gender diversity, whilst ensuring that we fulfil tenure of the Non-Executive Committee considered that the Company our obligations to our shareholders to recruit Directors and the need to would benefit from Keiths expertise in the best person for the role on merit.
The progressively refresh the Board technology and innovation if he remained executive search firms used for our recent Continue to monitor succession onthe Board.
On the Committees appointments to the Board are signatories planning for the senior leadership recommendation, the Board invited Keith to to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for team to ensure a healthy pipeline continue as a Non-Executive Director and Executive Search Firms.
The Committee of talent is emerging for future Iam delighted that he accepted this ensures that the specification for any new Executive and Board roles.
invitation, which will take effect from Director role is equally suited to applicants 1May2017.
of any gender and that no unlawful discrimination occurs at any stage in the After full consideration of succession for selection process on the grounds of age, Keith, the Committee approved the disability, gender reassignment, marriage appointment of Dr. Nick Challoner as and civil partnership, maternity, pregnancy, President of Life Sciences with effect from race, religion or belief, or sex or sexual 1May 2017.
Nick will continue to be orientation.
The Boards diversity policy can responsible for the Asian Pacific region and be found at www.
Nick will also lead Crodas Global Research and Technology I will be available at the AGM to respond function.
Keiths other responsibilities have toany questions shareholders may raise been assumed by other members of the onthe Committees activities.
The Committee spent time considering CEO succession, both in terms of emergency succession plans in the eventthat the Board needed to appoint atemporary CEO due to unforeseen circumstances, and for possible Anita Frew successors now or in the future.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Committee carried out a review of the size, structure and composition of the Board for its current and future needs, to align with the Companys strategy.
The Committee will continue to review the balance, experience and skills on the Board.
The Committee reviewed the time commitment of the Non-Executive Directorsand was also satisfied that all the Non-Executives are able to commit the required time for the proper performance oftheir duties and continue to fulfil the criteria ofindependence.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53
