Directors Report TheBoard invites the Companys brokers Substantial shareholders Relations with shareholders and financial public relations advisers As at the date of this Annual Report the toattend at least one meeting each year Company had received notification of the Communication with shareholders atwhich the economic and investment following material shareholdings pursuant The Chairman, Executive Directors and environment, Crodas performance to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules other senior managers maintain regular generally and in comparison with its sector of the UK Listing Authority: contact with existing and potential peers and investor reactions are shareholders to ensure our strategy and % of discussed.
The Chairman attended the Number issued trading trends are clearly understood.
These of shares capital Recognising the importance of presentations are webcast live, so all BlackRock, Inc. 7,044,667 5.36% communicating with our shareholders, shareholders have access to them, and are Mawer Investment ourVice President for Investor Relations also available todownload.
We answer all Management Limited 6,563,126 5.01% and Corporate Finance manages the investor questions sent to our website.
day-to-day contact with the investment Set out overleaf on page 46 is a calendar community, including investors and of our investor events attended by senior analysts, as well as to co-ordinate site visits management throughout the year.
and presentations at investor conferences and roadshows.
The Board engages in active dialogue with Geographical breakdown ofshareholder base shareholders through the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Chairman, who meet with shareholders regularly.
These meetings provide an appropriate means of capturing Continental Europe shareholders opinions and the Chairman North ensures the Board is regularly apprised 18.56% America ofshareholders views and key issues.
32.16% AllNon-Executive Directors are available toattend meetings if requested by shareholders and the Senior Independent Director is available to discuss matters UK concerning the Chairman if the need 45.71% arises: no such meetings were requested by shareholders during the year.
The Board believes its practices in this area Asia are consistent with both the Code concerning dialogue with shareholders, 3.57% and good governance.
During the year, numerous meetings were held with investors in the UK, US, Europe and Asia, including face-to-face meetings, telephone and video conferences, and hosted site visits in all of these regions.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Relations with Shareholders Our investor calendar Investor concentration Set out below is a calendar of our Percentage of issued capital by type of holder investor events attended by senior management in 2016: February 92.60% Full year results published Institutional holders Roadshow in London March 4.03% Roadshow in New York Private holders Conferences in New York, San Francisco and London 3.37% Annual Report published Other holders Capital Markets Day held at Sederma, France April Roadshow in Mid-West Annual General Meeting Deadlines for exercising America votingrights The AGM provides an opportunity for Conference in London private shareholders to raise questions Votes are exercisable at a General Q1 Trading Update with Board members.
The Directors are Meeting of the Company in respect published also available to answer questions ofwhich the business being voted upon Annual General Meeting afterwards in a more informal setting.
Votes may be exercised in York The Annual Report and Accounts, in person, by proxy or, in relation to including notice of AGM, are sent to corporate members, by corporate May shareholders at least 20 working days representatives.
The Companys Articles Conference in Nice before the meeting.
There is a separate of Association provide a deadline for Roadshow in the Netherlands investor relations section on submission of proxy forms of not less June www.
com which includes, than 48 hours before the time Roadshow in Edinburgh among other items, presentations made appointedfor the holding of a meeting Conferences in Paris to analysts.
The AGM will be held at the oradjourned meeting.
andLondon Principal Hotel, Station Road, York, Investor field trip to Paris North Yorkshire YO24 1AA, on 26 April 2017 at 12 noon.
July Half year results published Roadshow in London September Conferences in Dublin andLondon Roadshow in Milan October Roadshows in Helsinki andCopenhagen November Q3 Trading Update published Conferences in Boston andLondon Roadshows in New York, Chicago and Toronto December Conference in London Croda International Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
