Directors Report Audit Committee Dear fellow shareholder Report of the Audit Committee In my capacity as Chairman of the Audit for the year ended 31 December 2016 Committee, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Committee membership The Committee is made up of four Non-Executive Directors.
The experience of each member of the Committee The Committee has issummarised on pages 34 and 35.
Ihave delivered on its key held a number of senior financial roles, prioritiesduring the year.
most recently as Chief Financial Officer ofLonmin Plc, and am Chairman of Alan Ferguson the Audit Committees of two other Chairman of the Audit Committee FTSE100 250 companies, as well asanAIM listed company.
The Board considers each member of the Committee is independent within the definition oftheCode and has relevant financial Members and attendance Responsibilities experience, as well as a broad and diverse eligibility at meetings The Committee assists the Board in spread of commercial experience.
Such heldduring the year ended ensuring that the Groups financial consideration provides the Board with 31December 2016 systems provide accurate and up-to-date assurance that the Committee has the information on its financial position.
appropriate skills and experience to ensure Alan Ferguson that it can be fully effective, and that it Key responsibilities: Chairman 5 5 meets the Code requirement that at least Helena Ganczakowski To monitor the integrity of the one member hassignificant, recent and Independent Non-Executive 5 5 financial statements and results relevant financialexperience.
Nigel Turner announcements of the Group and Independent Non-Executive 5 5 The Chairman of the Board, the Group toreview significant financial Steve Williams Chief Executive, the Group Finance reporting issues and judgements Independent Non-Executive 5 5 Director, the Group Financial Controller, To recommend external auditor theVice President Risk and Control, In addition there were two meetings held appointment and removal, assess wholeads the internal audit function, subsequent to the year end.
audit quality, negotiate and approve andrepresentatives from the external Attendancewas full at both.
the audit fee, assess independence andinternal auditors regularly attend and monitor non-audit services meetings by invitation.
To review the adequacy and The Committee periodically, and I more effectiveness of the Groups internal regularly, meet separately with the Vice controls and risk management President Risk and Control and the systems, and the adequacy, external auditors without the Executives effectiveness and output of the being present.
While these meetings are internal audit function invaluable, I also meet with the external auditors, the Group Finance Director and To review the adequacy of the the Group Financial Controller at least Groups whistle-blowing twice each year to discuss the detail of the arrangements and procedures for year end and half year results before the detecting fraud.
This helps In addition toitsbusiness as usual me to better understand the key issues activities, the Committee selects certain and to make sure enough time is devoted focus areas each year for detailed to them at the subsequent meeting.
Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms of reference, which can be found at www.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Audit Committee Main business as usual activities of the Committee since the publication of the 2015 Annual Report The Committee met three times in 2016 after publication of the 2015 Annual Report and twice between the year end and thepublication ofthisAnnual Report.
The key issues covered at the Committee meetings were reported at the subsequent Boardmeeting.
The Committees main business as usual activities, excluding the focus areas, and an estimate of the proportion of time spent onthem, aredetailedbelow: Committee activity in 2016 Financial reporting 25% External audit 20% In conjunction with the Board, The Committee: The Committee: reviewed the financial modelling and Monitored the Groups financial Discussed and approved the external stress testing based onplausible statements and results audit plan, including: the assessment scenarios arising from selected key announcements, and reviewed of significant audit risks: the risks, noting the effect they would significant financial reporting and engagement risk profile: the scope of have during the viabilityperiod accounting issues including the going the audit covering 85% of the Groups concern assessment and exceptional consolidated pre-tax profit, 2015: items 84% : the materiality level circa 5% ofthe Groups consolidated pre-tax Undertook regular reviews of profit, or 13.8m, 2015: 12.6m : the theGroups material litigation and fide minimus reporting threshold wassatisfied with the approach 0.7m, 2015: 0.6m : the approach to toprovisioning working withinternal audit: and the key members of the engagement team supported by specialist auditors where Governance 15% Internal audit and risk necessary.
The audit fee was approved by the Committee following management 25% The Committee: challenge and discussion Reviewed the effectiveness of the The Committee: Reviewed the provision of non-audit Groups anti-bribery and fraud Received an update report from the services by the external auditor and, procedures, including the whistleVice President Risk and Control at each inlight of the FRCs Revised Ethical blowing procedure meeting and monitored compliance Standard, adopted a new Group policy Met with internal audit and external with the Group risk management in this area audit without management being programme.
The Committee reviewed Agreed the timing and plan for tendering present the reliance placed by management on the external audit in line with the the risk mitigating controls of the Received a presentation from the regulatory framework and commenced Groups highest risks and analysed the Finance Director, PTIC and Europe work in this regard types of assurance, both internal and Undertook an effectiveness review, external, that applied to these controls Discussed in detail the FRCs audit which was conducted using a quality review of PwCs 2015 audit Assessed the 2016 risk-based questionnaire and concluded that the ofthe Company assurance activity carried out by internal Committee was operating effectively, audit, which included a review of: Considered and confirmed the with virtually all the scores being very product assurance: Incotec integration: independence ofPwC.
close to those from 2015 when similar the order-to-cash process in Hong questions were asked.
Areas for Kong and Singapore: controls over attention included some training needs capital projects: and our New and including around cyber security and Protected Products process supporting and ensuring that focus is maintained on the key issues in 2017 Considered the results of the 2016 recognising the audit tender process internal audits and the IT audits, will absorb additional time and effort.
theself-assessment process, theadequacy of managements response to matters raised and the time taken to resolve such matters Reviewed and approved the 2017 internal audit plan and started the preparations for putting the internal audit work out to tender.
Croda International Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Key Completed Ongoing Key focus areas for 2016 The Audit Committee has delivered on our business as usual work, as set out in our terms of reference, and from this perspective there is nothing to highlight for your attention.
Last year, we noted five focus areas for 2016, which absorbed the balance of the Committees time of around 15%, withthe main component being work on the SAP system.
Key focus area Actions during the year Progress Continue to work with management The Company benefits from one SAP system.
Over the last couple of years a lot of attention on further development of our has been focused on two areas.
systems-based internal audit approach First, how better to utilise the system to strengthen the control framework.
A systems based audit approach to SAP access controls was taken in 2016 using the newly implemented SAP GRC system.
This system enables continuous monitoring of access and has introduced workflow to the authorisations process.
Mitigating controls were identified for key segregation conflicts, and these were tested as part of the site audits where relied upon by sites.
Sites have confirmed that the GRC system has improved the effectiveness of the access process.
Second, there has been a focus on how to use data analytics both as an audit tool and asatool to examine process flows which may lead to control or efficiency improvements.
Analytics were used for the first time to identify transaction flows across two critical sites covering the sales toreceivables process.
The output was used to help identify a best practice flow and also toidentify any inefficiencies and integrity issues.
The work analysed 100% of dataflows in aseven month period for this process.
The results of this review were discussed by the Audit Committee, together with a proposal on how data analytics could be used in a similar way tosupport the 2017 internal audits.
Assess the impact on Croda of the A comprehensive review of the Code and the Guidance was undertaken, and minor changes FRC changes to the UK Corporate toadapt to the new provisions were made, including updating our non-audit policy.
Governance Code and Guidance onAudit Committees which which cameinto effect in 2016 Focus on the controls over capital Internal audit undertook a review of governance and monitoring controls in operation over significant projects, given the increasing spend capital projects in Singapore, Atlas Point USA, Chocques France and Croda India.
The inthis area review concluded that effective controls were in operation at each site around both project and financial management.
Some recommendations were made around best practice formalities.
The President of Global Operations reported to each Board meeting on the progress and spend control over the Atlas Point project.
The Group Financial Controller and the President of Global Operations completed the annual post-audit of major capital projects and reported this to the Board.
Receive a report from the integration A report shared with the Audit Committee showed that the integration was progressing well.
team following the recent acquisition Internal audits approach to Incotec was to carry out a peer review supported by the Vice of Incotec and agree with internal audit President Risk and Control in 2016, with all sites visited.
A formal audit is scheduled for 2017. their audit approach for 2016 This approach was agreed by the Committee.
Focus on cyber security risks, working Cyber security controls were tested during the 2016 internal audit round and ISO27001 testing with management to try to ensure our was also undertaken.
No significant actions were identified from either audit.
Penetration networks and business information are testing has been undertaken and actions arising are being progressed.
Further testing services as secure as possible, and that will be carried out in 2017.
A cyber maturity risk assessment review has been scoped and will learnings from our regular IT systems be completed before the end of Q1 2017. penetration testing are followed up Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Audit Committee Internal audit and risk management Details on how the Business implements Significant financial statement itsrisk management and controls on a In 2016 I met with the Vice President Risk reporting issues Group-wide basis are set out on pages and Control several times outside of the 29to 33 and page 44. formal meetings to discuss the performance With support from the external auditors, theCommittee considered a number of and output of the internal audit function and External auditors effectiveness significant issues related to the financial aspects of risk management.
The Vice statements for the year ended During the year, the Committee assessed President Risk and Control attended each 31 December 2016, as set out below.
the effectiveness of PwC as Group external Committee meeting and presented an auditor.
To assist in the assessment, the Pensions: The Committee continued internal audit report that was fully reviewed Committee spoke with senior members of tomonitor the Groups pension and discussed, highlighting any major arrangements, in particular the liability in the finance team to obtain their views on deviations from the annual plan agreed with respect of the defined benefit plans in the PwCs effectiveness in carrying out the the Committee.
UK, the US and the Netherlands, which are 2016 audit.
The Committee considered: At each meeting, the Committee sensitive to assumptions made in respect Quality of planning, delivery and considered the results of the audits of discount rates and inflation.
The execution of the audit Committee reviewed the actuarial undertaken and considered the adequacy assumptions used and compared them of managements response to matters Quality and knowledge of the with those used by other companies, and raised, including the time taken to resolve auditteam considered them to be reasonable.
It also focused, in particular, Effectiveness of communications on where there was a major divergence Provisions: The Committee reviewed between management and the whether certain environmental, between the outcome of the internal audit auditteam reorganisation, litigation and other legal and the scoring of the self-assessment provisions were sufficient to cover estimated questionnaire, completed annually by each Robustness of the audit, including costs of potential and actual claims and business unit.
In these instances it theaudit teams ability to challenge decided that they were reasonable and challenged management as to what actions management as well as demonstrate appropriate.
For larger areas of exposure, it was taking to try to minimise the chances professional scepticism and the Committee was reassured by legal of divergences arising in the future.
Committee looked at recurring themes TheCommittee also considered the quality Taxation: The global footprint of the where issues are identified across a of reports from PwC and the additional Group necessitates an understanding of, number of locations.
insights provided by the audit team, and compliance with, complex tax regulations.
TheCommittee reviewed the We also agreed the internal audit plan for particularly at partner level.
It took account basis of calculation of the effective tax rate, 2017: this takes into account such factors of the views of the Group Finance Director the status of the Groups tax compliance, as the results of previous audits, both and Group Financial Controller, who had details of potentially significant challenges external and internal, the self-assessment met local audit partners when visiting some from tax authorities and the level questionnaire, recurring themes from 2016, of the Groups businesses, to gauge the ofaccruals.
The Committee concurred acquisitions, system changes and the quality of the team and their knowledge with managements views.
In addition, the views of Executive management.
and understanding of the Business.
Committee reviewed the adequacy of the TheCommittee considered how well the tax disclosures.
In February, the Committee conducted its auditors assessed key accounting and annual review of the internal auditor, Goodwill: The strategy of the Group audit judgements and the way they applied includes acquisitions of new technologies including the approach to audit planning constructive challenge and professional and businesses operating in adjacent and risk assessment, communication within scepticism in dealing with management.
Goodwill represents a significant the Business and with the Committee and asset value on the balance sheet 307.1m its relationship with the external auditors.
We reviewed both the Audit Quality Review out of a total net assets of 608.8m at 31 Internal feedback is used in this process.
of the 2015 audit of the Company which December 2016.
The Committee This did not highlight any significant areas was undertaken by the FRC this year, as completed its routine annual impairment for development.
However, given we are well as the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection review of the carrying value of goodwill, as tendering the external audit see page 51 report on the UK firm, and overall the prepared by management, including the the Committee took the decision to tender results were reassuring.
The main area of sensitivity to a number of underlying the internal audit contract that KPMG have comment by the FRC was around the audit assumptions.
After due challenge, the Committee was satisfied the assumptions held for sixyears.
This was because of the of taxation and the Committee was were reasonable and that no impairments length of tenure of KPMG as internal satisfied with PwCs responses to the were necessary.
auditors and the fact that if KPMG were points raised.
A review of effectiveness also successful in the external audit tender we forms part of PwCs ownsystem of quality would have totender the internal audit control and these procedures, which are contract in unduehaste.
set out in PwCs 2016 Audit Quality and Transparency Report, were disclosed to the Committee.
Following the review, the Committee concluded that the audit was effective.
Croda International Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report External audit tendering External auditors independence The Committee undertook its annual review of the Groups policies relating to The Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, The Committee and the Board place great external audit, including the policy which which we fully support, requires rotation of emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups governs how and when employees and audit firms every 10 years unless there is a external auditors in reporting to former employees of the Groups auditors tender, in which case the audit firm can shareholders.
Both PwC Group audit can be employed by Croda.
No changes remain as auditor for up to 20years.
The partners are present at Audit Committee were made.
transitional provisions stagger the meetings to ensure full communication of introduction of mandatory firm rotation audit-related affairs and that they remain External auditor reappointment depending on the length of audit tenure as fully appraised of all matters considered The Committee recommended to the Board at 17 June 2014.
As PwC have been the bythe Committee.
that PwC be offered for re-election at the Groups auditors for more than 20years we PwC were the Groups joint auditors from forthcoming AGM, based on the work have a transition period that means PwC 1970 to 1980 and have been sole auditors carried out in assessing their effectiveness cannot be reappointed as our auditors since 1981.
To ensure objectivity, the and independence.
after 17 June 2020. rotation of audit partners responsibilities I will be available at the AGM to respond The Committee has consistently said that it within PwC is actively encouraged and has toany questions shareholders may raise would tender the audit to coincide with the taken place.
on the Committees activities, including the expiry of Ian Morrisons term as lead audit During the year, the Committee undertook external and internal audit tender processes.
partner, when he would sign the 2017 a detailed review of the provision of Annual Report, or sooner if it were felt non-audit services by PwC and, in light necessary by the Committee.
This year the ofthe FRCs Revised Ethical Standard, Committee formally committed to tender weadopted a new Group policy in this the audit during 2017.
The new policy, which is on our audited by the newly appointed firm will be website www.
com, sets out the year to 31 December 2018.
During the prohibited non-audit services and the year we agreed an outline timetable for the controls over assignments awarded Alan Ferguson tender and agreed which audit firms we totheexternal auditor to ensure that audit Chairman of the Audit Committee would ask to tender.
The Group Finance independence is not compromised.
I am Director and I have visited these audit firms required to give prior approval for work to start the discussion with them around carried out by PwC and its associates the key attributes we would expect to see above a threshold of 20,000 and the Looking ahead to 2017 in the senior members of the Group audit Committee is required toapprove work In addition to our routine business, team and the likely structure of that team.
These reviews include theCommittee has four focus areas The objective of this process is to ensure determining that other potential providers for 2017.
We will: each firm puts forward the highest quality of non-audit services have been properly Group audit team to lead the tender that Plan and conduct the tenders considered in recognition of the importance fits with our requirements.
This process ofthe external audit and internal of this matter to the Committee.
willcontinue through the first part of 2017. audit services Non-audit fees have fallen for the fifth As part of the tender process the Review the implementation of our consecutive year.
In 2016, they were Committee, in conjunction with the firms enhanced ethical compliance 0.3m, significantly less than the total audit themselves, are monitoring the Groups programmes relating to antifees of 0.9m: the non-audit toaudit fees spend with those tendering the audit bribery and sales of products into ratio stands at 0.33:1. toavoid any independence issue arising sanctioned markets inthe run up tothe tender.
There are The only significant fees for non-audit Review the progress of the project nocontractual obligations that restrict workundertaken by PwC relate to tax to increase the use of data ourchoice of external auditor, although, compliance and advisory in the US.
The analytics both as an audit tool and asnoted, under the European rules we firms detailed knowledge of our operations as a tool to examine process flows areobliged to rotate PwC from the audit in the US has been particularly helpful within SAP by2020.
given the complexities of both Federal and State legislation, which necessitated the Continue our focus on cyber completion of 35 tax returns last year.
security risk and ensure the During the year the Committee agreed to Committee receives some training move this work away from PwC, and a on this area.
tender process has been run, with a new firm appointed who are not involved in the external audit tender process.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51
