Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Leadership A strong framework At the date of this report, the Board comprises eight Directors: the Chairman: Leadership the Group Chief Executive: the Group Finance Director: the Chief Technology Role and operation of the Board Membership of the Board and Officer: and four independent Non-Executive attendance eligibility at Board Directors.
The small size of our Board The Board has ultimate responsibility meetings held during the year allows time for full discussion and debate forthe overall leadership of the Group.
ended 31 December 2016 of items, and enables all Directors views Inthis role it oversees the development tobe heard.
The Non-Executive Directors of a clear Group strategy, monitors have a broad range of business, financial operational and financial performance Anita Frew Chairman 7 7 and international skills and experience, against agreed goals and objectives, Alan Ferguson 7 7 which provides appropriate balance and and ensures that appropriate controls diversity within the Board.
Biographical and systems exist to manage risk.
Steve Foots 7 7 notes appear on pages 34 and35.
Helena Ganczakowski 7 7 Specific Board matters With support from the Company Secretary, Keith Layden 7 7 The matters reserved for the Board fall the Chairman sets the annual Board agenda into four broad areas: Jez Maiden 7 7 programme and Board meeting agendas, and determines the number of meetings Nigel Turner 7 7 1.
Matters required by law to be tobe held during the year.
She ensures reserved for the Boards decision, Steve Williams 7 7 enough time is devoted, during meetings such as approving the Annual and throughout the year, to discussing Report and Accounts, appointing allmaterial matters, including strategic, new Directors, and declaring financial, operational, business, risk, dividends HRandgovernance issues.
The requirements of the UK Listing, The Board has taken action to strike a Prospectus and Disclosure and balance between reporting, approvals and Transparency Rules, such as governance matters, whilst ensuring more approving circulars to shareholders time is devoted to major strategic issues.
UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations, such as ensuring the Company has a sound system ofinternal control and risk management, and approving the Boards and Committees terms ofreference 4.
Other matters such as approval of the Groups strategy and budget, material corporate transactions and capital expenditure.
The full schedule of matters reserved forthe Board can be found at www.
Croda International Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Governance structure The Board has three main Committees: The day-to-day operational management the Risk Management Committee: the Audit Committee: the Remuneration oftheBusiness is delegated by the Board theGroup SHEQ Steering Committee: Committee: and the Nomination totheGroup Chief Executive, who uses the Group Ethics Committee: and the Committee.
The terms of reference for severalCommittees to assist him in this Routine Business Committee.
For further each Board Committee can be found at task: the Group Executive Committee: information on each of these Committees www.
theGroup Finance Committee: see page 54.
The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Chaired by Alan Ferguson Chaired by Steve Williams Chaired by Anita Frew Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial Approves the Companys remuneration Reviews the structure, size and composition statements announcements, the effectiveness policyand framework and determines the ofthe Board and its Committees, identifies of internal controls and risk management remuneration packages for members of and nominates suitable candidates for aswell as managing the external auditor seniormanagement.
For more information appointment to the Board, and has relationship.
For more information seepages 55 to 75. responsibility for succession planning.
Formore information see pages 52 and 53.
Independent Board roles Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors The roles of the Chairman and Group The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day The independent Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive are separate and clearly responsibility for the effective management role is central to an effective and accountable defined, with the division of ofthe Groups Business and for ensuring that Board structure.
They constructively responsibilities set out in writing and Board decisions are implemented.
He plays challenge the Executive Directors and agreed by theBoard.
akey role in devising and reviewing Group scrutinise the performance of management strategies for discussion and approval by the inmeeting agreed goals and objectives.
The Group Chief Executive is tasked help develop and monitor the delivery of the Chairman withproviding regular reports to the Board on strategy within the risk and control framework allmatters of significance relating to the Groups set by the Board.
They determine appropriate The Chairman leads the Board and is Business, or reputation, to ensure that the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors responsible for promoting open and effective Board has accurate, timely and clear information and have a prime role in appointing and, communication between the Executive and on all matters on which a Board decision is where necessary, removing, Executive Non-Executive Directors, and for creating an required.
He also promotes the Companys Directors, and in succession planning.
environment at Board meetings in which all culture and standards.
Directors contribute to discussions and feel Group General Counsel The Chairman and Group Chief Executive liaise comfortable in engaging in healthy debate andCompanySecretary closely and have frequent meetings, face-toand constructive challenge.
face or by telephone, in which the Chairman The Group General Counsel and Company The Chairman leads the annual Board iskept appraised of significant developments Secretary is secretary to the Board and its effectiveness review process and ensures between Board meetings.
He ensures Board procedures that all new Directors have an appropriately areas of potential conflict between the Executive are complied with and advises on regulatory tailored induction process.
She is responsible and Non-Executive Directors are minimised.
for effective communication with Inaddition he develops Board and shareholders and for ensuring the Board Committee agendas and collates and Senior Independent Director understands the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates The Chairman also ensures that the Group induction programmes and provides complies with good practice in corporate The Senior Independent Director provides a briefingson governance, legal and governance, ethical, environmental and sounding board for the Chairman and acts as an regulatorymatters.
human resources matters, and upholds high intermediary for the Non-Executive Directors, standards of integrity and probity.
He is available to shareholders where communication through the Chairman or Executive Directors has not been successful or where it may not seem appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for leading the Non-Executive Directors in appraising the performance of the Chairman and in their discussions of her term of appointment and fees.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Leadership The Boards 2016 activities and priorities The Board has an agenda programme that ensures strategic, operational, business, financial, HR and corporate governance items are discussed at the appropriate time at Board meetings.
The Board agenda has strong links to the strategic objectives for the Business.
The Board has seven meetings during the year and in addition a strategy day at which all members of the Executive Committee attend.
The strategy day in the first half of the year is followed by consideration of the three year plan in the autumn and then approval of the budget at the end of the year.
Keyhighlights of the Boards 2016 activities and priorities are set out below.
Board activity in 2016 Strategy Delivering growth Driving innovation Sustainable solutions p05 p05 p05 Personal Care, Croda Product innovation programmes Safety, health, China, CrodaIndia and andtechnology platforms environment andquality Asia Pacific business reviews Technology led acquisitions Sustainability strategy and targets Adjacent market opportunities New and Protected Products pipeline Senior management succession Product manufacturing strategies Innovation and R&D metrics Ethical compliance reinforcement Various acquisition opportunities programme, including modern Open innovation and pipeline, including the slavery statement acquisition of Inventiva Integration of Incotec People Governance Financial, risk andreporting andperformance Talent review and succession management planning Review of Annual Report and The Croda culture Accounts and other financial Capital expenditure approvals statements Board diversity andperformance reviews of Board evaluation and effectiveness Health and safety of our employees historical capex and contractors Defence strategy Capital allocation policy, capital Diversity and inclusion of our returns and share consolidation Investor relations review workforce The Groups budget, forecasts Ethical compliance programmes andkey performance targets andindicators Dividend approvals Anti-bribery, Brexit and intellectual property risk reviews Long term viability Croda International Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Outside the boardroom During the year, some of the Non-Executive Effectiveness Directors undertook an overseas In addition to formal Board meetings, manufacturing site visit, outside of the in2016, the Directors attended offsite The Nomination Committee normal Board site visits.
Anita Frew and meetings to review the Groups strategy The Nomination Committee report is set Alan Ferguson visited the Sipo manufacturing and were present at the AGM.
The report describes the site in China and Helena Ganczakowski met with the Companys financial and membership of the Nomination Committee, met the Croda India management team public relations advisers to discuss the its responsibilities, its main activities in2016 atour manufacturing site in Thane.
The feedback from investors and analysts on and its priorities for 2017.
Non-Executives discussed a wide range the Groups annual results.
The Chairman oftopics with the local management and Non-Executive Directors met together Board evaluation teams, including process safety, innovation, without the Executive Directors present.
The Board undertakes a formal review of plant expansion plans and challenges and The Chairman spends a considerable its performance and that of its Committees opportunities ineach market.
In addition, amount of time meeting with Steve Foots each year.
In 2015, the Board review was all the Board met with the Asia Pacific and the senior management team at the conducted using an online questionnaire management team at Croda Singapores Companys head office.
This ensures tailored to Crodas activities and current sales office and spent time at the thatshe is kept appraised of significant concerns.
The key actions and progress manufacturing site on Jurong Island.
developments in the Company between inmeeting them are summarised below: Anitacontinued her comprehensive Board meetings.
induction programme, spending time Continue to focus on long term All Directors are involved in the Groups atouroperations in Korea and Japan.
strategy and strategic aquisitions Leadership Development Programme.
As in previous years, members of the Continue to concentrate on risks that Thisinvolves attending various sessions, could materially impact the Groups Executive Committee and other senior and includes discussions on business strategy and long term viability managers from across Croda attended strategy and leadership chaired by Ensure that the Board is regularly Board dinners where the Board discussed aDirector, as well as interacting with exposed to the global nature of our topics relevant to the Business and its employee course members in team Business, including overseas site strategy.
In addition, during the Boards visits and meetings building sessions or atdinners.
visit toour operations in Singapore and Completed Ongoing The Board visited our manufacturing site theNon-Executive Directors visits to India, inDitton, UK, where they participated in China, Japan and Korea, the Directors During 2016, the Board review was again interactive labatory demonstrations, undertook metinformally with many of the Groups conducted using an online questionnaire a plant tour and discussed the sites key employees.
These interactions enhance tailored to Crodas activities and current technologies and their end applications.
the Boards understanding of the Business concerns.
Separate questionnaires were and allow Directors to spend time with the also used for the Audit, Remuneration Groups senior managers and potential andNomination Committees.
wasprepared based on the completed questionnaires, which facilitated an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and the support and information received from management and advisers.
The results were discussed in detail by the Board and areas for focus and improvements were identified and agreed.
The Chairman fed back on a one-to-one basis to each of the Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive, and the results of the evaluation were discussed with the Nomination Committee.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Effectiveness The review concluded that: Board re-election employees across all regions in which we operate.
This includes site visits, typically The Board contains a broad range The Non-Executives support and hosted by one of our Executive Committee ofskillsand experience from different challenge of management was members.
This allows our new Directors industries and advisory roles, and from appropriate and the relationships toget to know the regional and local international markets.
between individual members of the leadership teams and to discuss a wide Board continues to be very strong.
These skills support the strategic aims range of topics, including the local There is an excellent relationship ofthe Company.
Following individual organisation structure, growth plans, between the Board and the Group performance assessments, the Board strategic priorities, risks and the competitive Chief Executive and the Board and issatisfied that each Director continues landscape.
Directors also spend time senior management toperform effectively, allocates sufficient atourlaboratories with the R&D teams, time for their duties, and remains fully The level of the Boards oversight of the wherethey gain insight into the technology committed to their role in the Company.
various aspects of risk is appropriate platforms and chemistries, as well as our AllDirectors willstand for re-election at and the Board is effective in product development pipeline.
Full biographies for the considering risk when making strategic manufacturing sites enable new Directors Directors can be found on pages and operational decisions to explore Crodas complex manufacturing 34and35.
processes and ourapproach to process The Boards involvement in succession safety and behavioural safety.
They are also and development plans for senior Directors induction able todiscuss our challenging sustainability management was rated highly On joining Croda, Directors receive atailored targets and find out about quality and The Board will review its agenda induction programme.
programme to ensure appropriate time to quickly absorb agreat deal about New Directors are given lots of opportunities is spent focusing on innovation, abusiness if they are tofulfil their roles to spend time engaging with and talking sustainability and market dynamics.
Our tailored toa wide variety of employees across all inductions offer a swift and thorough way The Boards priorities for 2017 are set out functions and seniorities.
This includes time tohelp new Directors understand Crodas on page 37. at dinners and social events.
Through these business, markets andrelationships and In 2017 we will commission an externally interactions new Directors gain an insight toestablish a link with employees.
facilitated review in line with the into the Croda culture and our values that As part of the induction, new Directors gain requirements of the Code.
are a key differentiator between us and a thorough understanding of Crodas ourcompetitors.
business through meetings with Croda When planning an induction we take the following steps: 1 2 3 4 Bespoke Varied delivery Length Review programme We use diverse formats to Conscious of a Directors other The Company Secretary communicate information.
commitments and not wanting and the Director haveregular Our Company Secretary These include iPad reading to overload them with too much reviews, with input from the discusses how the materials, meetings with information in too short a time, Chairman, toagree what extra programme should employees and fellow Directors, we deliver the induction over the insights theinduction needs be tailored to meeta briefings and training from full Board cycle of 12 months to deliver Directors needs external advisers and site visits Croda International Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Board support The independence of the Non-Executive The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors is kept under review.
The Non-Executive Directors can be viewed at Each Director has access to the advice Chairman was independent on her www.
They can be inspected and services of the Company Secretary.
appointment in 2015 but, as Chairman, during normal business hours at the Where necessary, the Directors may take isnot classified as independent.
Steve Companys registered office by contacting independent professional advice at the Williams has consultancy roles with the Company Secretary and will also be Companys expense.
Eversheds LLP, which provides some legal available for inspection at the AGM.
Training and briefings are available to all services to the Group, and Spencer Stuart, Directors taking into account their existing Time commitment a search consultancy firm that has experience, qualifications and skills.
In previously been used by Croda.
The Board Each Director is aware of the need to order to build and increase the Nondoes not consider that these roles would allocate sufficient time to the Company to Executive Directors familiarity with, and affect his judgement in relation to Croda and discharge their responsibilities effectively.
understanding of, the Groups people, its Business and, therefore, considers that Inaddition to time spent at Board and businesses and markets, senior managers all Non-Executive Directors who served Committee meetings, the Directors regularly make presentations at Board during the year are independent in character participate in several Company related meetings.
The Board also receives regular and judgement, with no relationships events: details are set out on page 41. briefings from the Company Secretary on orcircumstances that are likely to affect, governance, legal and regulatory matters, External consultants orcould appear to affect, their judgement.
and additional briefings from the New Bridge Street, now part of Aon Plc, Companys professional advisers.
Conflicts of interest and Korn Ferry have provided remuneration Before each Board meeting, the Company The Board has an established process consultancy to the Remuneration Secretary makes sure that the meeting fordeclaring and monitoring actual and Committee.
While the Aon group provides papers and other information are delivered potential conflicts.
The Articles of insurance services to Croda, these are electronically via a secure, iPad-accessible Association of the Company allow the notprovided by New Bridge Street.
This helps to ensure that each non-conflicted members of the Board to Zygos and Russell Reynolds have Director has the time and resources to fulfil authorise a conflict or potential conflict previously acted assearch advisers to their duties.
A resource centre within the situation.
In addition to the potential conflicts theBoard and Nomination Committee.
web portal provides access to useful of Steve Williams noted above, Nigel Turner Neither firm has any other connection information about the Group, including declared a potential conflict in relation to the withthe Group.
corporate governance materials, finance possible sale of farm produce oilseed rape and strategy information, Group policies through agents to Croda.
Helena and procedures, and information on topics Ganczakowski has a Non-Executive Director such as risk and insurance.
role on the board of People Against Dirty, acustomer of Croda.
Jez Maiden has a Independence of Non-Executive Director role on the board Non-Executive Directors ofPZ Cussons plc, a customer of Croda.
Croda complies with the Code in having Details of the professional commitments experienced Non-Executive Directors ofthe Chairman and the Non-Executive whorepresent a source of strong advice, Directors are included in their biographies judgement and challenge to the Executive onpages 34 and 35.
The Board is satisfied Directors.
At present there are five such that these do not interfere with the Directors, including the Chairman and the performance of their duties for the Company.
Senior Independent Director, each of whom During 2016, no Non-Executive Director has significant commercial experience.
Their hadserved on the Board for more than understanding of the Groups operations is nineyears from the date of their first election, enhanced by regular business presentations withthe range between two years and seven and site visits.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
