April Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Accountability self-assessment of compliance with Reports from the external auditors Accountability these controls, which is assured Presentations of key risks and controls during planned internal audit visits The Audit Committee by the Executive owner and other Comprehensive monitoring and assurance providers The Audit Committee report, which quantification of business risks, under describes the membership of the Audit Half-yearly report on significant controls the direction of the Risk Management Committee, its responsibilities, main from the Vice President Risk and Control.
The Groups approach to activities in 2016 and priorities for 2017, This system is designed to mitigate rather risk management and the principal isset out on pages 47 to 51. than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve risks facing the Group are discussed business objectives and provides inmore detail in the Strategic Report Risk management and internal reasonable but not absolute assurance on pages 29 to 33 control against material misstatement or loss.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility Capital investment with detailed Asappropriate, the Board also ensures for ensuring the maintenance of a sound appraisal, risk analysis, authorisation that necessary actions have been, system of internal controls and risk and post-investment review orarebeing, taken to remedy failings management.
In accordance with the procedures.
orweaknesses identified from the review guidance set out in the Financial Reporting This process has been in place for the full ofinternal controls effectiveness and Councils FRCs Guidance on Risk financial year and up to the date on which judges their level of significance.
Management, Internal Control and Related the financial statements were approved by Financial Business Reporting 2014, and in Fair, balanced and understandable the Directors.
the Corporate Governance Code itself, The process of compiling the Annual anongoing process has been established The Board discharged its responsibility for Report starts early enough to give the for identifying, evaluating and managing monitoring the operational effectiveness of Board time to assess whether it is fair, theprincipal risks faced by the Group.
the internal control and risk management balanced and understandable, as required TheDirectors have established an systems throughout the financial year and by the Code.
The Board considered organisational structure with clear up to the date of approval of the Annual whether the Annual Report contained the operatingprocedures, lines of responsibility Report.
It used a process which involved: necessary information for shareholders and delegated authority.
Written confirmations from relevant toassess the Companys position and In particular, there are clear procedures and senior executives and divisional performance, business model and defined authorities for the following: directors concerning the operation of strategy.
The Board reviewed how the those elements of the system for which business model was presented and the Financial reporting, with clear policies they are responsible linkage to the Groups strategy, to ensure and procedures governing the clarity for shareholders.
The tone was Internal audit work carried out by financial reporting process and reviewed to ensure a balanced approach KPMG LLP which reports through the preparation ofthe financial statements.
and the Board made sure the narrative at Vice President Risk and Control to the There is aclear and documented the front end of the report was consistent Audit Committee framework ofrequired controls.
Each with the financial statements.
reporting location prepares an annual with their findings and any emerging themes Our internal audit annual programme being reported to the Audit Committee.
The January One element of our internal control Committee places great importance on the framework is the work carried out by our Planning self-assessments and are concerned when internal auditors.
there are differences positive or negative The planning process for the years audit between the self-assessed scores and those Reporting Preparation work is undertaken by the internal audit team, assessed during the audit visits.
led by our Vice President Risk and Control.
On-going The site-based audit fieldwork and IT audits communication with: Themes from prior year audits, key risk areas Audit Committee, areundertaken between May and October, and fundamental controls feed into the senior management and followed by the risk-based reviews.
The external auditors selection of the audit programme, which Site and outcome of this work is reported to the Audit IT audits and isapproved by the Audit Committee.
IT self Committee and any failures of internal controls risk reviews assessment Consideration is given to the appropriate mix or weaknesses from non-financial and riskof IT and manual controls to be tested.
based reviews are followed up by the Audit Site-based Self-assessments of controls are carried out Committee, with common themes feeding into audits by local management and systems owners, the planning process for the following years July which are analysed by the internal audit team audit programme.
Croda International Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 October
