Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT Amendment to the Articles of Association Acquisition of Own Shares Information included in Strategic Report The Company may only amend its Articles of Association if At the first AGM of the Company held on 22 January 2016 The following information that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in this report and which is incorporated into this its shareholders pass a special resolution to that effect.
prior to the IPO when the sole shareholder was NAB, a report by reference can be found on the following pages of the Strategic Report: resolution was passed that with effect on and from the earlier of i UK Admission: and ii Australian Admission, the Directors Share Capital, Control and Directors Powers were authorised to purchase up to a maximum of 87,931,525 Subject matter Page reference ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued Shares in the Company are listed on both the LSE and the Future developments 13 ordinary share capital of the Company immediately following ASX in the form of CHESS Depositary Interests CDIs and Employment of disabled persons 24 the demerger.
This authority remains in place until the AGM therefore, the Company is required to comply with the on 31 January 2017 when it is intended to seek a renewal up Colleague engagement 23-24 disclosure requirements of both listing regimes.
to a limit of 88,153,180 ordinary shares.
Further information Emissions reporting 29-31 is set out in the Notice of AGM.
Details of the movements in allotted share capital during the year, together with the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares, are shown in note 31 to the consolidated Substantial Shareholdings Political Donations financial statements.
Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders pursuant to the DTRs is published via a Regulatory The Group did not give any money for political purposes nor Information Service.
did it make any political donations to political parties or other There are no restrictions on voting rights of securities in the Company.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for political organisations, or to any independent election As at 30 September 2016, the Company had been notified by its substantial shareholders under Rule 5 of the DTR of the candidates, or incur any political expenditure during the year.
determining attendance and voting entitlements at the AGM.
following interests representing 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: Where participants in an employee share incentive plan Financial Risk Management Objectives and operated by the Company are the beneficial owners of shares Policies but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally % of issued capital with rights to vote in all circumstances exercised at the discretion of participants.
Information about internal controls and financial risk 1 Total number of shares at general meetings management systems in relation to financial reporting and Perpetual Limited and subsidiaries 64,650,581 7.33% With the exception of restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Board review can be found on page 83 of the Corporate shares under the Companys share incentive plans, whilst the JCP Investment Partners Ltd 63,439,056 7.20% Governance Report.
shares are subject to the rules of the plan, there are no AMP Life Limited, AMP Capital Investors Limited, Ipac Asset 61,322,129 6.95% restrictions which exist on the transfer or holdings of Management Limited, AMP Capital Investors NZ Limited Information about financial risk management objectives and securities in the Company under its Articles of Association policies in relation to the use of financial instruments can be Cooper Investors Pty Ltd 52,888,470 6.00% and there are no shares carrying special rights with regards to found in the Risk Report on pages 138 to 197.
Investors Mutual Limited 36,401,370 5.17% the control of the Company.
Westpac Banking Corporation 27,570,287 3.13% Subject to the Articles of Association and provisions of Post Balance Sheet Events 1 Percentage correct at time of notification relevant statutes, the Board may exercise all powers of the On 25 October 2016, the Group announced that it has Company.
engaged in discussions with The Royal Bank of Scotland On 11 October 2016 the Company was notified by AMP Life Limited, AMP Capital Investors Limited, ipac Asset Management Group plc RBS and has made a preliminary non-binding Limited, AMP Capital Investors NZ Limited of a holding of 52,466,092 shares 5.95%.
proposal to RBS in relation to its Williams & Glyn operations.
This engagement is ongoing and there can be no certainty On 20 October 2016 the Company was notified by Schroders plc of a holding of 44,572,459 shares 5.06%.
that any transaction will occur, nor as to the terms on which any transaction might be concluded.
134 1 135 35 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Going Concern Viability Statement Responsibility Statement of the Directors in IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The Groups Directors have made an assessment of the The viability statement is contained in the Risk Overview elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Groups ability to continue as a going concern and are section on page 38 and is incorporated into this report by The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in reference.
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied business for the foreseeable future.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the The Groups use of the going concern basis for preparation of view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Group and Company for that year.
In preparing these financial the accounts is discussed in note 1 of the Groups loss of the Company and the Group and the statements the Directors are required to: consolidated financial statements.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with whole: and International Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then development and performance of the business and the Disclosure of information under Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R apply them consistently: position of the Company and the Group, together with a Additional information required to be disclosed by LR9.8.
4R, where applicable to the Group, can be found in the following present information, including accounting policies, in a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that sections of this report: manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and they face.
understandable information: The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Subject matter Page reference specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Publication of unaudited financial information The disclosures within the Risk Report pages 138 to 197 are unaudited provides the information necessary for shareholders to users to understand the impact of particular transactions, unless otherwise stated.
other events and conditions on the financial performance: assess the Companys and Groups position and Allotment of equity securities 266 performance, business model and strategy.
and Significant contracts 237 state that the Group and Company have complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and Independent Auditor and Audit Information explained in the financial statements.
change of control, the parties must cooperate in good Research and Development Activities In accordance with section 485 of the Companies Act 2006, faith to facilitate an assessment by the PRA to determine The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate a resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP, and to The Group does not undertake formal research and whether the capped indemnity should continue in the accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the authorise the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration, will development activities although it does invest in new then amount or whether it should be terminated in whole Group and Companys transactions and disclose with be proposed at the next AGM.
platforms and products in each of its business lines in the or part.
Any such assessment will be at the sole discretion reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the ordinary course of business.
In addition to new products and of the PRA.
Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the The Directors who were members of the Board at the time services the Group also invests in internally generated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. of approving the Report of the Directors are listed on page intangible assets including software and computer systems.
There are a very small number of senior employees who are They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 61.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Further details can be found in note 22 of the Groups entitled to an enhanced redundancy payment if redundancy Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Groups auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: consolidated financial statements.
arises within the initial period of employment and is a result for the prevention and detection of fraud and other to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, of a change of control.
The Group has share schemes under irregularities.
there is no information relevant to the preparation of which change of control may apply albeit this is not Change of Control their report of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and considered to be significant.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also The Group is not party to any significant agreements that each Director has taken all the steps a Director might responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, are subject to change of control provisions in the event of a reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance takeover bid, other than the following: relevant audit information and to establish that the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Groups auditor is aware of that information.
A Conduct Indemnity Deed with NAB under which NAB The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual has agreed, subject to certain limitations, to provide Report and the Group and Company financial statements in On behalf of the Board: CYBG with a capped indemnity in respect of certain accordance with applicable law and regulations.
historic liabilities relating to Relevant Conduct Matters as defined therein.
The capped indemnity will not Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial automatically cease to apply nor will it automatically statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are Lorna McMillan terminate upon any takeover.
However, prior to any required to prepare the Group financial statements in 21 November 2016 Company Secretary CYBG PLC.
09595911 136 1 137 37 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 R I SK R E P O RT Bell Rock Lighthouse, Angus 139 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements Risk Reporting and Escalation Protocols RISK REPORT Risk Management Framework Effective management of risk is a core capability for a successful The Group identifies and manages risk using the RMF see diagram below, which is the totality of systems, structures, policies, financial services provider and is fundamental to the Groups processes and people that identify, measure, evaluate, control, mitigate, monitor and report all internal and external sources of strategy.
Board oversight of risk management is facilitated by material risk.
the Boards Risk and Audit Committees: the Board approves the Groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks 3 4 5 and risk appetite.
Monitor Risks Risk Measurement Appetite Decision Manage Events The Groups Approach To Risk Risk Appetite Statement RAS Risk Governance Risk exists in every aspect of the Groups business throughout Risk Appetite is defined as the level and types of risk the its operating environment, and is a core consideration within Group is willing to assume within the boundaries of its risk the Strategic Plan.
The Groups approach to risk management capacity, to achieve its strategic objectives.
The RAS articulates Roles and Responsibilities: Three Lines of Defence is based on a principle that risk management capability must be the Groups risk appetite and helps communicate it to embedded within the businesses front line teams to be stakeholders.
This is important as it provides the definitive view effective.
This overriding principle embodies the following on the broad direction of risk taking activity the Board is Strategic Planning including Risk Appetite setting concepts: comfortable that the Group undertakes and allows decision makers including those with delegated authority and also Commercial decisions are made on the basis of proactive those providing oversight to exercise judgement with greater consideration of risk and the impact on customers: Risk Appetite Framework confidence and speed.
Business managers use the Risk Management Framework RMF, which assists in the appropriate balancing of both The RAS aligns to the risks identified and defined in the RMF.
Policy Framework the risk and reward components: and The design and structure of the RAS has taken into Employees are responsible for risk management in their consideration best practice recently articulated by the day to day activities.
European Central Bank which is aimed at ensuring Boards should be strongly involved in the validation process and Frameworks, Risk Systems, Policies and Standards to manage sources of risk monitoring of the RAS.
- Balance Sheet and Liquidity Risk Risk Strategy - Credit Risk The Groups RAS is prepared by the CRO with consideration The Group has a clearly defined strategy in order to manage - Operational Risk of the strategic objectives and business model of the Group and mitigate risk in the daily course of its business.
The as well as the environment in which it operates.
Monthly - Financial Crime Risk strategy consists of: reporting to Executive Committees and Board includes - Regulatory, Compliance & Conduct Risk Ensuring all principal and emerging risks are identified and details of performance against relevant RAS settings, assessed: breaches and trends.
A clearly articulated risk appetite which influences the Control Effectiveness Statement Groups strategic plan: A clearly defined risk culture which emphasises risk management throughout all areas of the business whilst 2 1 6 maintaining independent oversight: Ongoing analysis of the environment in which the Group Assess Control Identify Risks Report operates to proactively address potential risk issues as they arise: and Supporting commercial decisions and people with Risk Management Core Components Risk Management Cycle Risk Infrastructure Risk Culture appropriate risk processes, systems and controls.
140 141 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 CYBG.
COM ANNUAL-RESULTS-2016 Risk and Event Classification Matrix Risk Categorisation Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements RISK REPORT Risk Culture Risk Policies and Procedures The Policy Framework is a key component of the Groups Central to the Groups risk culture is the fair treatment of customers and meeting obligations to stakeholders, including RMF providing structure and governance for the consistent, Remuneration CYBG PLC Committee effective management of Policies.
In developing the Policy B O A R D shareholders and employees.
The Board and senior management are responsible for setting and clearly framework the Group aims to set a tone that demonstrates the risk culture expected across the organisation.
This aligns communicating a strong risk culture through their actions and Clydesdale Bank words, and proactively addressing any identified areas of with the behavioural expectations for all employees, which PLC Board form a core part of our performance management approach.
Policies and supporting standards define the minimum control requirements which must be observed across the Culture is shaped by many aspects including tangible Group to manage material sources of risk within risk appetite.
components such as: the Groups code of conduct: operating Governance Risk Audit and principles: policies: standards: the risk management operating Committee Committee Nomination model: and an approved articulation of risk appetite that aligns Committee Principal Risks to, and supports, the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Group strives to instil a culture that supports compliance with See pages 34 to 35 in the Strategic Report for details on the Chief Executive Officer all relevant laws, codes and policies and builds constructive Groups principal risks.
Initiatives that support appropriate risk culture include: the Risk Governance and Oversight performance management framework: escalation procedures The Groups risk governance structure strengthens risk encouraging employees to raise concerns: and messaging from Executive evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group the CEO and members of the Executive Leadership Team Disclosure Committee Executive Leadership Team Risk Committee to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient emphasising the importance of risk identification, management and effective manner.
Refer to the Groups website and mitigation.
com for further information on Board committees.
Underpinning the RMF and at the heart of the Groups risk The Groups risk management is governed via a series of Operational culture is the concept of personal accountability for risk Pension Risk Asset and Enterprise Portfolio Risk and Credit Risk committees, as represented within the diagram which follows.
This is enabled through a risk Management Liability Data Management Compliance Committee Board Committee Committee Committee Committee management accountability model and a formal delegation Committee framework through which employees are able to make risk based decisions.
Structured Funding Programmes Risk Management Oversight Committee Effective management of risk is a key capability for a successful financial services provider and is fundamental to the Groups strategy.
Board oversight of risk management is facilitated by the Boards Risk and Audit Committees: the Board approves the Groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
Board Governance Committees Executive Governance Committees Delegating authority, reporting & escalation Reporting & escalation 142 143 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements RISK REPORT The following Executive level Committees have been established under the authority of the Chief Executive Officer: Three Lines of Defence Effective operation of a Three Lines of Defence model is Regular assessments are undertaken to confirm the Committees Risk Focus integral to the Groups approach to risk management and is effectiveness of the risk and control frameworks in relation Executive Leadership The Executive Leadership Team supports the CEO to lead the Group to be a strong, customer focused based on an overriding principle that risk capability must be to both the current and emerging risk profile: and Team bank for its communities by focusing on three business priorities: Sustainable Growth: Efficiency: and embedded within the First Line of Defence teams to be Risk management responsibilities are clearly understood by Capital Optimisation.
This principle embodies the following concepts: all employees when carrying out their day to day activities.
Executive Risk The Executive Risk Committee supports the CEO in respect of risk and control accountabilities and Commercial decisions are made on the basis of proactive Committee serves to provide leadership focus on key risk issues including: Control is exercised through a clearly defined delegation of consideration of risk and the impact on customers: - Endorsing the RAS for approval by the Board: authority, with communication and escalation channels Risk management activities are focused on enhancing - Overseeing and challenging the enterprise wide risk performance and control environment of the throughout the Group.
sustainable business performance: Group and business units, including the effective use of policy, frameworks and tools: Management must use the RMF, to support decision - Monitoring the status of regulatory relationships, the reputation of the Group in relation to its regulators and the changing state of the regulatory landscape including the impacts for and making involving risk and reward trade offs: readiness of the Group: - Monitoring the strength of risk capability and capacity, including risk training and education plans to ensure an effective risk and control framework: and - Reviewing and endorsing risk policies, frameworks and tools for use across the Group.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the Group complies with its continuous disclosure obligations for the exchange s on which it has equity and debt securities listed.
The Executive Risk Committee is supported by the following Committees: Pension Risk The Pension Risk Management Committee is responsible for overseeing pension risk management and Management Committee strategy.
This committee also oversees the interaction with the pension scheme trustees in relation to 3rd: Internal Audit the risks within the Scheme.
Internal Audits role is to Credit Risk Committee The Credit Risk Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Credit Risk Management Framework and provide independent assurance over the Governance, Risk Management and associated policies remain effective.
The committee has oversight of the quality, composition and Control Framework, coordinating and concentrations of the credit risk portfolio and recommends strategies to adjust the portfolio to react to placing reliance on 1st and 2nd changes in market conditions.
Line teams where deemed appropriate.
Operational Risk and The Operational Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for ensuring that the RMF and Compliance Committee associated policies and standards are fit for purpose and implemented effectively.
2nd: Risk Management Asset and Liability The Asset and Liability Committee ALCO is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Committee Group against the Board approved Capital and Funding Plans.
The committee focuses on the Groups The Risk Management team under the Chief Risk Officer independently monitors and systematically assesses the risk profile non-traded market risks including capital, funding, liquidity and interest rate risk to ensure that the within the Group against established risk appetite parameters.
Risk Management also Groups activity complies with regulatory and corporate governance requirements and also delivers develops and defines the Groups RMF.
They also assist Group policy objectives.
The impact of Pension Risk on Capital is also assessed by ALCO.
the front line business units in the design and implementation of appropriate risk management policies and strategies and work with the business units to Structured Funding The Structured Funding Programmes Oversight Committee is responsible for supporting the Asset and promote awareness of the need to manage risk.
Programmes Oversight Liability Committee in relation to its risk monitoring and oversight responsibilities for all secured funding Committee programmes and supporting the CFO and Treasurer in relation to the compliance of the Regulated Covered Bond RCB Programme with FCA regulations and the RCB Sourcebook.
1st: Business & Enterprise Assurance The Executive Leadership Team is supported by the following Committees: Responsibility for risk management resides with the business unit Director in each area.
They are each responsible for ensuring that they have adequate risk coverage and processes in place to ensure they are Enterprise Data The Enterprise Data Committee is responsible for providing direction and oversight of information and managing the risks they own within Risk Appetite and within the guidelines of the RMF.
A monthly Committee data practices, including oversight of managements resolution of data issues.
report of key risks, issues and horizon risks is provided to the Executive Risk Committee.
Portfolio Management The Portfolio Management Committee is responsible for the oversight and management of capital The Enterprise Assurance function focuses on end to end assurance of key processes as well as Committee allocation and funding decisions for the product portfolio, related to pricing and sustainable returns.
ensuring risks and controls are being managed appropriately.
Reporting is provided to each business unit Director as appropriate and to the Executive Risk Committee.
Cost Board The Cost Board is the primary forum for the management of costs across the Group.
Its primary responsibilities are to approve expenditure within agreed delegated authorities, to oversee business unit expenditure and expense performance and to support the development of a strong expense control culture within the Group.
144 145 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 CYBG.
COM ANNUAL-RESULTS-2016 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements STRESS TESTING RISK CLASSES Stress testing is an important and recognised risk management Stress testing within the Groups risk governance tool, used to assess the vulnerability of financial institutions and capital framework through the modelling of adverse scenarios.
The Group Stress testing outputs are used to inform the strategic undertakes stress testing, following the Basel Committee planning process and the RAS.
The plan is subjected to principles, aimed at understanding potential impacts arising sensitivity analysis, forming a key element of the planning from adverse conditions relevant to its business and to aid the process from an overall risk assessment perspective, and development and understanding of potential management PAGE PAGE provides the Board with further detail when looking to actions and contingency plans.
Stress testing forms an integral part of the overall governance Stress testing informs the assessment and quantification of risk and risk management culture.
Involvement from the Board and C R E D I T BALANCE SHEET exposures in the course of calculating capital requirements as senior management in the stress testing programme is part of the ICAAP.
The Group runs a number of adverse essential for its effective operation.
R I SK & PRUDENTIAL macroeconomic stresses in order to determine the impacts on the Groups financial and capital position, taking account of R E G U L AT I O N changes to impairments, margins, volumes and costs relative to Methodology R I S KS the base case plan, and considers the actions which the Group Stress testing at the Group complies with regulatory may choose to deploy in response to such events materialising.
requirements and is subject to a rigorous review and challenge process.
The Groups approach ensures that a clear link exists Stress testing is also a key feature of the ILAAP where stress between the economic scenarios and stress testing outputs, testing scenarios are modelled regularly to provide insight supported by a structured review and sign off process.
into potential vulnerabilities in the Groups funding and PAGE liquidity strategies.
Stress testing results of liquidity are also PAGE 192 While the stress testing process is underpinned by models, it is reported to ALCO on a monthly basis.
194 also reliant on judgements made by senior management and key personnel across the Group including, but not limited to: The Executive Leadership Team and Board engages at critical R E G U L ATO R Y, points of the stress testing cycle to provide a robust and O P E R AT I O final Finance, who manage the macroeconomic scenario process strategic challenge in relation to the selection and and prepare and review stressed business plans: COMPLIANCE & R I SK development of scenarios and thereafter, considers how the Credit Risk, who prepare and review Credit stress outputs, CONDUCT RISK results are integrated into future strategic decision making, INCLUDING STRATEGIC, BUSINESS, including impairment charges, RWAs and write-offs: contingency planning, capital and business planning, and risk FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & Treasury, who provide funding and liquidity impacts and appetite.
PEOPLE RISKS construct capital plans based on the outcomes of stress testing: and Prior to Board submission, ALCO reviews the scenarios, Products and Customer Banking, who guide on potential assumptions and results of liquidity and capital stress testing management actions in response to stress scenario and provides initial review and challenge of outputs.
PAGE 196 Reverse Stress Testing Reverse stress testing requires a different approach.
It starts from an outcome of business failure and identifies instances F I NAN C I AL where this might occur.
Severe but plausible scenarios with an CRIME RISK unacceptably high risk are used to inform business planning to prevent or mitigate specific business risks.
Reverse stress tests are also utilised as the start point for recovery and resolution planning scenarios and are recognised as a required risk management tool in the form of an early warning indicator framework.
146 147 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK STRONGLY PERFORMING CREDIT PORTFOLIOS, WELL POSITIONED FOR GROWTH Close monitoring, robust policies and a well controlled framework support the credit operations of the Group, maintaining strongly performing portfolios.
Credit risk is the risk that a borrower or counterparty fails Credit Strategies and Policies Exposures Measurement to pay the interest or capital due on a loan or other Credit risks associated with lending are managed through Credit risk exposures are categorised as retail secured and The Group uses statistical models to measure credit risk financial instrument.
the application of detailed lending policies and standards unsecured and SME.
Models are supported by both internal and which outline the approach to lending, underwriting criteria, external data.
Credit risk manifests itself in the financial instruments and credit mandates, concentration limits and product terms.
In terms of loans and advances, credit risk arises both from or products that the Group offers, and those in which the The Group maintains a dynamic approach to credit amounts lent and commitments to extend credit to The probability of default PD that borrowers will not Group invests including, among others, loans, guarantees, management and aims to take necessary steps if individual customers.
To ensure appropriate credit limits exist, meet their contractual obligations, current exposures, and credit-related commitments, letters of credit, acceptances, issues are identified or if credit performance deteriorates, or especially for SME lending, a single large exposure policy is the likely loss ratio on defaulted obligations are calculated to inter-bank transactions, foreign exchange transactions, is expected to deteriorate, due to borrower, economic or in place within the Group and forms part of the risk appetite measure and mitigate credit risk.
credit risk can be found both on and off sector specific weaknesses.
measures which are monitored and reported on a monthly balance sheet.
The overall composition and quality of credit portfolio Portfolios are assessed using segmentation for Roles and responsibilities for the management, monitoring exposures are monitored and periodically reported to the measurement, reporting and monitoring purposes.
and mitigation of credit risk within the Group are clearly Board, and, where required, to the relevant supervisory Risk Appetite defined in line with the Groups RMF.
Subject to regulatory approval, the Group is progressing The Group controls the levels of credit risk it takes by toward attaining permission to use IRB models to measure placing limits on the amount of risk accepted in relation to Significant credit risk strategies and policies are approved, Exposures are also managed in accordance with the Large the credit risk of loans and advances to customers.
one borrower, or groups of borrowers, and to geographical, and reviewed annually, by the Credit Risk Committee.
For Exposure reporting requirements of the CRR.
Meantime, all exposures are measured under the product and industry segments.
The management of credit complex credit products and services, the Chief Credit standardised approach for regulatory capital.
risk within the Group is achieved through both approval and Officer CCO and Credit Risk Committee provides a policy Unless otherwise noted, the amount that best represents monitoring of individual transactions, regular asset quality framework that identifies and quantifies risks and establishes the maximum credit exposure at the reporting date is the Details of the Groups approach to the impairment of analysis of the performance of the various credit risk the means of mitigating such risks.
These policies and carrying value of the financial asset.
financial assets can be found in note 2. portfolios and the independent oversight of credit frameworks are delegated to, and disseminated under the portfolios across the Group.
guidance and control of, executive management, with appropriate oversight through governance committees.
148 149 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK The Groups strategy to target selective areas for balance The level of impairment charge on credit exposures has Key Credit Metrics audited sheet growth particularly through mortgage origination has reduced significantly in the period to September 2016 due to 2016 2015 influenced the low impairment charge.
High underwriting the lower levels of specific provision required, reflective of the standards and a controlled risk appetite have resulted in a reduction in the levels of defaulted and impaired lending.
Impairment charge on credit exposures m portfolio with strong asset quality which has, in turn, led to a Stabilisation of asset values has also supported recoveries and SME lending including lease finance 31 45 low impairment charge to average customer loans ratio write backs from provisions previously recognised.
Retail lending 8 33 across all portfolios.
Most asset quality measures improved in 39 78 the period as the influence of a strong customer focused The ratio of total provision to customer loans reduced by 14 Of which culture, prudent risk management and a stable UK economy basis points to 0.79% in the year to 30 September 2016 took effect.
Some downward pressure on the oil & gas and driven by the reduced levels of specific provision held and Specific charge for impairment losses 25 73 agriculture sectors has had a softening effect on the continued growth in the portfolio, particularly mortgages Collective charge for impairment losses 14 5 portfolios, evidenced by an increased level of collective which have a lower provisioning requirement.
While the portfolio remains sensitive to Impairment provisions held on credit exposures m economic shocks, broader based negative effects from Brexit have yet to be observed, and prolonged economic stability SME lending including lease finance 157 168 underpinned by low interest rates and higher employment Retail lending 58 62 has supported customer confidence.
215 230 Of which Retail asset quality remains strong with lower default rates Specific provision 64 92 and impairment charge observed across the period.
The Collective provision 151 138 lower for longer interest rate environment has sustained customer confidence, supporting strong growth in the 215 230 mortgage portfolio and stable asset quality.
Credit risk adjustments held on loans at fair value m SME lending 24 38 Of which Individually assessed credit risk adjustments 8 11 Collectively assessed credit risk adjustments 16 27 24 38 Impairment charge credits on loans held at fair value 11 18 Past Due and impaired assets m 90 DPD assets 150 143 1 Impaired assets 233 263 Asset Quality measures % 90 DPD plus impaired assets to customer loans 1.27% 1.41% 2 Specific provision to impaired assets 30.8% 39.2% 3 Net write-offs to customer loans 0.18% 0.35% 4 Total provision to customer loans 0.79% 0.93% 5 Total impairment charge to average customer loans 0.09% 0.21% 1 Impaired assets for September 2016 and September 2015 includes 19m and 25m of impaired fair value loans respectively.
2 Total specific provision includes the individually assessed credit risk adjustments on loans at fair value.
3 Net write-offs includes loans at fair value.
4 Total provision to customer loans includes the credit risk adjustments on loans at fair value through profit and loss.
5 Total impairment charge to average customer loans includes loans held at fair value through profit and loss.
150 151 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK Maximum exposure to credit risk audited Controls over rating systems Association ISDA master netting agreements, as well as Credit Support Annexes CSA, where relevant, around The Group has established an Independent Model Validation The table below shows the maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet, including derivatives.
collateral arrangements attached to those ISDA The maximum exposure is shown gross, before the effect of mitigation through use of master netting and collateral Unit that sets common minimum standards.
Derivative exchange or clearing counterparty designed to ensure risk models and associated rating systems agreements.
The table also shows the maximum amount of commitments from the Groups banking operations.
agreements exist if contracts are settled via an exchange are developed consistently, and are of sufficient quality to or clearing house.
support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
2016 2015 m m Stress testing Credit Assessment and Mitigation for Retail and Cash and balances with central banks note 11 5,955 6,431 Stress test scenarios are regularly prepared with the SME Customers outcomes reviewed and relevant actions taken.
Outputs will Due from related entities note 12 - 786 typically include impairment charges, RWA and write-offs.
The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing Due from other banks 952 128 Management will consider how each stress scenario may applications for retail customers.
The approval process uses Financial assets available for sale note 13 1,731 1,462 impact on different components of the credit portfolio.
The credit scorecards, as well as manual underwriting, and involves Other financial assets at fair value note 14 750 1,097 primary method applied uses migration matrices, modelling a review of an applicants previous credit history using the impact of PD rating migrations and changes in portfolio Derivative financial assets note 15 585 285 information held by credit reference agencies.
default rates to changes in macroeconomic factors to obtain Loans and advances to customers note 16 29,202 27,482 a stressed position for the credit portfolios.
Loss Given The Group also assesses the affordability of the borrower Due from customers on acceptances 4 4 Default is stressed based on property price movements.
under stressed scenarios including increased interest rates.
In 39,179 37,675 addition, the Group has in place quantitative thresholds such The Group also utilises other instruments and techniques Contingent liabilities note 33 123 109 as maximum limits on the level of borrowing to income and across its wider balance sheet.
These include: the ratio of borrowing to collateral.
Some of these limits Other credit commitments note 33 7,690 7,801 relate to internal approval levels and others are hard limits Maximum credit risk exposure 46,992 45,585 Derivatives above which the Group will reject the application.
The Group maintains control limits on net open derivative positions.
At any one time, the amount subject to credit risk is For residential mortgages, the Groups policy is to accept only Credit decisions utilise credit scoring techniques and manual Mitigation limited to the current fair value of instruments that are standard applications with a LTV less than 95%.
The Group underwriting, as appropriate.
These tasks are performed by The management and mitigation of credit risk within the Group favourable to the Group i. e. assets where their fair value is has maximum % LTV limits which depend upon the loan size.
skilled and competent specialists acting within agreed is achieved through both approval and monitoring of individual positive, which in relation to derivatives is only a small fraction Product types such as BTL and residential interest only delegated authority levels set in accordance with their transactions and asset quality, analysis of the performance of of the contract, or notional values used to express the mortgages are controlled by transactional limits covering experience and capabilities.
the various credit risk portfolios and the independent oversight volume of instruments outstanding.
This credit risk is both LTV and value.
of credit portfolios across the Group.
Portfolio monitoring managed as part of the customers overall exposure together Credit policy and adherence to Policy Standards techniques cover such areas as product, industry or geographic with potential exposures from market movements.
For SME customers, credit risk is managed in accordance with Specialist teams oversee credit portfolio performance as well concentrations and delinquency trends.
lending policies, the Groups risk appetite and the RMF.
as adherence to credit risk policies and standards.
Activities Master netting agreements Lending policies and performance against risk appetite are include targeted risk based reviews, providing an assessment For customers, there is regular analysis of the borrowers ability The Group further restricts its exposure to credit losses by reviewed regularly.
Credit risk is further mitigated by focusing of the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management to meet their interest and capital repayment obligations with entering into master netting arrangements with on business sectors where the Group has specific expertise practices.
Bespoke assignments are also undertaken in early support and mitigation steps taken where required.
Credit counterparties with which it undertakes a significant volume and through limiting exposures on higher value loans and to response to emerging risks and regulatory requirements.
risk mitigation is also supported in part by obtaining collateral, of transactions.
Master netting arrangements do not certain sectors.
When making credit decisions for SME Independent assurance reviews are also regularly undertaken and corporate or personal guarantees where appropriate.
generally result in an offset of balance sheet assets and customers, the Group will routinely assess the primary source by Internal Audit.
liabilities, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis.
of repayment, most typically the cash generated by the Other mitigating measures are described below: However, credit risk associated with the favourable contracts customer through its normal trading cycle.
Secondary Portfolio oversight is reduced by a master netting arrangement to the extent sources of repayment are also considered and, whilst not the Specialist expertise Portfolios of credit and related risk exposures and the key that if any counterparty failed to meet its obligations in focus of the lending decision, collateral will be taken when Credit quality is managed and monitored by skilled teams benchmarks, behaviours and characteristics by which those accordance with the agreed terms, all amounts with the available.
The Group seeks to obtain security cover, and including, where required, specialists who provide dedicated portfolios are managed in terms of credit risk exposures are counterparty are terminated and settled on a net basis.
where appropriate, personal guarantees from borrowers.
support for customers experiencing financial difficulty.
This entails the production and analysis of Derivative financial instrument contracts are typically regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior subject to the International Swaps and Derivatives management.
152 153 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK Lending Balances Concentrations Distribution of loans and advances to customers by credit quality audited Loans and advances to customers audited Retail Credit Other retail Lease SME 2016 2015 1 overdrafts cards lending Mortgages finance lending Total m m As at 30 September 2016 m m m m m m m Overdrafts 1,536 1,563 Gross loans and advances: Credit cards 400 376 Neither past due nor impaired 57 388 612 21,485 502 5,665 28,709 Past due but not impaired 6 12 15 285 11 144 473 Lease finance 515 426 Impaired - - - 66 2 146 214 Mortgages 21,836 20,504 63 400 627 21,836 515 5,955 29,396 Other term lending SME 4,393 4,025 Other term lending retail 690 763 Other lending 26 30 Retail Credit Other retail Lease SME Gross loans and advances to customers 29,396 27,687 1 overdrafts cards lending Mortgages finance lending Total Accrued interest receivable 76 75 As at 30 September 2015 m m m m m m m Gross loans and advances: Unearned income 26 26 Neither past due nor impaired 70 363 668 20,170 418 5,277 26,966 Deferred and unamortised fee income 29 24 Past due but not impaired 9 13 15 268 6 172 483 Impairment provisions on credit exposures note 17 215 230 Impaired - - - 66 2 170 238 29,202 27,482 79 376 683 20,504 426 5,619 27,687 The Group also has a portfolio of fair valued business loans and advances of 750m 2015: 1,097m note 14.
Combined with 1 SME lending includes business overdrafts.
the above this is equivalent to total loans and advances of 29,952m 2015: 28,579m.
Credit risk categorisation Description Retail secured credit by loan size concentration 2016 2015 audited m % m % Neither past due nor impaired Loans that are not in arrears and where there is no objective evidence of impairment.
0 - 100k 4,456 20.4% 4,673 22.8% Past due but not impaired Loans that are in arrears but have not been individually assessed as impaired.
100k - 250k 6,807 31.2% 6,930 33.8% Impaired Loans which have been individually assessed for impairment as there is objective evidence of impairment, including changes in customer circumstances.
Credit policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing 2.5m 42 0.2% 42 0.2% Regulatory engagement is also scheduled as appropriate.
review, are documented and disseminated in a form that Total 21,836 100% 20,504 100% Risk Concentration: Concentration of risk is managed by client supports the credit operations of the Group: counterparty, by product, by geographical region and by Credit Risk Committee CRC : The CRC ensures that the industry sector.
In addition, single name exposure limits exist Credit RMF and associated policies remain effective.
The to control exposures to a single entity counterparty.
Committee has oversight of the quality, composition and Concentrations are also considered through the RAS concentrations of the credit risk portfolio and considers process focussing particularly on comparing the portfolio strategies to adjust the portfolio to react to changes in against market benchmarks.
Single Large Exposure excesses: All excesses are reported to RAS Measures: Measures are monitored monthly and the Transactional Credit Committee TCC and CCO.
Any reviewed bi-annually, at a minimum, to ensure that the exposure which continues or is expected to continue measures accurately reflect the Groups risk appetite, beyond 30 days will also be submitted to the TCC with strategy and concerns relative to the wider macro proposals to correct the exposure within an agreed period, environment.
All measures are subject to extensive not to exceed 12 months.
engagement with the Executive Leadership Team, the 154 155 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK Industry concentration of assets 1 Retail secured credit average LTVs by loan size unaudited 2016 The following tables show the levels of industry concentration of credit risk as at 30 September: Residential BTL Total 0 - 100k 46.6% 53.6% 47.8% 100k - 250k 57.3% 56.2% 56.9% Gross loans and advances to customers including loans 2016 2015 1 designated at fair value through profit or loss audited m m 250k - 500k 56.3% 56.5% 56.4% Government and public authorities 36 27 500k - 1m 54.5% 54.4% 54.5% Agriculture, forestry, fishing and mining 1,458 1,515 1m - 2.5m 53.1% 46.6% 52.0% Financial, investment and insurance 698 659 2.5m 57.1% 32.1% 55.3% Property construction 262 260 Total 53.7% 55.5% 54.3% Manufacturing 577 576 Instalment loans to individuals and other personal lending including credit cards 1,344 1,477 1 Retail secured credit average LTVs by loan size unaudited 2015 Property mortgage 21,836 20,504 Residential BTL Total Asset and lease financing 515 426 0 - 100k 47.6% 55.0% 48.9% Other commercial and industrial 3,421 3,340 100k - 250k 58.0% 58.3% 58.1% 30,147 28,784 250k - 500k 57.1% 57.7% 57.3% 500k - 1m 55.6% 56.0% 55.8% 2 1m - 2.5m 54.2% 51.8% 53.8% 2016 2015 Contingent liabilities and credit related commitments audited m m 2.5m 52.3% 36.6% 51.2% Government and public authorities 422 469 Total 54.5% 57.2% 55.3% Agriculture, forestry, fishing and mining 382 380 1 LTV of the mortgage portfolio is defined as mortgage portfolio weighted by balance and indexed using the Halifax house price index at a given date.
Financial, investment and insurance 125 117 Property construction 156 172 Manufacturing 658 656 Instalment loans to individuals and other personal lending including credit cards 1,931 1,955 Property mortgage 1,780 1,818 Asset and lease financing 98 102 Other commercial and industrial 2,261 2,241 7,813 7,910 1 Includes balances due from customers on acceptances and excludes accrued interest.
2 The 2015 comparatives have been restated to conform with current year industry categorisation.
156 157 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK Mitigation and Management of Credit Risk Collateral Credit quality of loans and advances Collateral held as security and other credit enhancements loan agreements which include affirmative and negative covenants and in some instances guarantees of For SME lending, the Group has an internally developed credit rating system, as defined under the Groups credit risk management The Group evaluates each customers creditworthiness on a counterparty obligations.
policy, that uses data drawn from a number of sources to assess the potential risk in lending to the Groups customers.
The amount of collateral obtained, if system assigns an indication of the PD for each customer and can be broadly mapped to external agencies rating scales.
Impaired deemed necessary by the Group upon extension of credit, is Generally, the Group does not take possession of collateral it assets consist of SME lending and secured retail lending where current circumstances indicate that losses of loan principal and or based on managements credit evaluation of the holds as security or call on other credit enhancements that interest may be incurred.
Collateral held varies, but may include: would result in recognition of an asset on its balance sheet.
specific charges over defined assets of the counterparty: Description eCRS PD a floating charge over all assets and undertakings of an It is the Groups policy to dispose of repossessed properties Senior investment grade 1 to 5 0 0.11 entity, including uncalled capital and called but unpaid with the proceeds used to reduce or repay the outstanding capital: balance.
In general, the Group does not occupy repossessed Investment grade 6 to 11 0.11 0.55 properties for its own business use.
specific or interlocking guarantees: and Sub-investment grade 12 to 23 0.55 99.99 The credit quality of the portfolio of loans and advances that were neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference The LTV ratio of retail mortgage lending, coupled with the relationship of the debt to customers income, is key to the credit to the Groups standard credit rating system.
The credit rating system is supported by a variety of financial analytics, combined quality of these loans.
The table below sets out the indexed LTV analysis of the Groups retail mortgage stock: with processed market information to provide the main inputs for the measurement of counterparty risk.
All internal risk ratings are tailored to the various categories and are derived in accordance with the Groups ratings policy.
2016 2015 The table below represents the credit quality of SME loans and advances that are neither past due nor impaired audited : 1 LTV audited % % Less than 50% 38 34 2016 2015 50% to 75% 48 51 m m 76% to 80% 5 5 Senior investment grade 1,077 1,174 81% to 85% 3 4 Investment grade 1,557 1,615 86% to 90% 2 2 Sub-investment grade 3,533 2,906 91% to 95% 1 1 6,167 5,695 96% to 100% - - Greater than 100% - - Credit quality of loans held at fair value through profit and loss that are neither past due nor impaired audited : Unknown 3 3 100 100 2016 2015 m m 1 LTV of the mortgage portfolio is defined as mortgage portfolio weighted by balance and indexed using the Halifax house price index at a given date.
Unknown represents Senior investment grade 6 47 loans where data is not currently available due to front book data matching still to be completed and a fide minimis amount due to weaknesses in historic data capture processes.
Investment grade 259 445 Sub-investment grade 466 580 Residential mortgages Commercial property 731 1,072 Residential property is the Groups main source of collateral Commercial property is the Groups main source of collateral and means of mitigating loss in the event of the default credit on SME lending and means of mitigating loss in the event of For retail lending, the Group has developed specific credit rating systems for both origination of new lending and for ongoing risk inherent in its residential mortgage portfolios.
Collateral for the majority of commercial loans activities are supported by an appropriate form of valuation comprises first legal charges over freehold or long leasehold customer and account management purposes.
These systems assign risk estimates to all retail lending and enable active management of customer exposures and portfolios.
using either professional valuers or indexed valuation subject property including formal Companies House registration to policy rules and confidence levels.
158 159 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK Where changes are made to the terms of a borrowers Non property related collateral The following table shows the total non property collateral Forbearance held by sector at 30 September 2016 in terms of cash, interest structure or repayment arrangement on a In addition to residential and commercial property based Forbearance is considered to take place when the Group commercial basis.
guarantees these guarantors are predominantly other security, the Group also takes other forms of collateral when grants concessions to assist customers who are experiencing, financial institutions who are considered to be of a high credit lending.
This can involve obtaining security against the Late provision of financial information, in the absence of or who are about to experience, difficulties in meeting their quality and netting.
The exposure amount shown below is underlying loan through the use of cash collateral and or other indicators of financial difficulty, is not in all cases financial commitments to the Group.
The Group the total gross exposure before any credit risk mitigation and netting agreements, both of which reduce the original considered a non commercial breach of non-financial implemented revised forbearance policies and definitions in credit conversion factors have been applied where applicable exposure by the amount of collateral held, subject to volatility covenants.
2014 in order to align the reporting of forbearance with the for arrangements which have some form of associated and maturity adjustments where applicable.
guidance established by the European Banking Authority collateral held against them and is not the total exposure for For both retail and SME, where the Group has made a EBA for FINREP reporting.
Forbearance concessions will each asset class, as disclosed elsewhere in this section and in The Group also operates a policy of obtaining security against demand for repayment, the customers facilities have been include the granting of more favourable terms and conditions the Strategic Report.
withdrawn or where a debt repayment process has been the underlying loan via the use of guarantees, which can be than those provided at drawdown of the facility or which either limited or unlimited, making the guarantor liable for initiated, the exposure is classified as forborne if the debt is would not ordinarily be available to others with a similar risk subject to any of the mentioned forbearance concessions.
only a portion or all of the debt.
Forbearance parameters are regularly reviewed and refined as necessary to ensure they are consistent with the The tables opposite summarise the level of forbearance at 30 Cash Guarantee Netting Total Exposure latest industry guidance and prevailing practice as well as 2016 audited m m m m m September 2016. ensuring that they adequately capture and reflect the most Central Government or Central Bank 721 - - 721 1,027 recent customer behaviours and market conditions.
The Retail forbearance Corporates 49 40 32 121 135 Group makes every effort to treat customers fairly and aligns The Group utilises various forbearance measures for retail Financial institutions 504 - - 504 600 its forbearance practices to that principle.
customers, specific to the individual customer and their Past due items - - - - 3 circumstances.
Customers may potentially be subject to more Whilst forbearance alone is not necessarily an indicator of Public sector entities - - - - - than one forbearance strategy at any one time where this is impaired status, it is a trigger for the review of the customers Regional Government or local authorities - - 94 94 94 considered to be the most appropriate course of action.
credit profile and is granted when there is a realistic prospect Retail - - - - - of the customer repaying all facilities in full.
If there is any Secured by mortgages on commercial real estate 4 - 35 39 107 Debt management for Mortgage customers in financial concern over future cash flows and the Group incurring a difficulty Secured by mortgages on residential property 2 - 3 5 12 loss, then forborne loans will also be classified as impaired in accordance with the Groups impairment policy.
1,280 40 164 1,484 1,978 To support customers who are encountering financial difficulties, cases are managed on an individual basis, with the Exposures classified as forborne and performing at the date circumstances of each customer considered separately and Cash Guarantee Netting Total Exposure forbearance measures are granted, continue to be reported the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable 2015 audited m m m m m as subject to forbearance for a minimum period of two years for the customer.
Operationally, the provision and review of Central Government or Central Bank - - - - - from that date the probation period.
Exposures classified as such assistance is controlled by various methods.
These Corporates 64 53 57 174 205 forborne and which are non performing when customers include the application of an appropriate policy framework, Financial institutions - - - - - were granted forbearance cannot exit non performing status controls around the execution of policy, regular review of the for a minimum of 12 months from the date forbearance was different treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate, Past due items - - - - 4 granted, and cannot exit forbearance status for a further two monitoring of customers performance including the level of Public sector entities - - - - - years from the date of returning to performing status three payments received, and management visibility of the nature Regional Government or local authorities - - 114 114 114 years in total.
and extent of assistance provided and the associated risk.
Retail - - - - - Secured by mortgages on commercial real estate 4 - 31 35 86 The Group has identified a number of situations that in Help is provided through the Financial Care Team where Secured by mortgages on residential property 2 - 7 9 18 isolation are not considered to be forbearance: tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
Customers 70 53 209 332 427 are actively supported and referred to free money advice Facilities that have been temporarily extended pending agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including review and where no concession has been granted for those at other lenders, which require restructuring.
reasons relating to the actual or apparent financial stress The increase in cash collateral held and corresponding exposure is due to increased repurchase repo transactions outstanding of a customer.
at 30 September 2016, reflected within Central Governments or Central Banks and Financial Institutions.
There were no repo One component of the Groups approach is to contact transactions outstanding at 30 September 2015.
A reduction in asset quality to a level where actual, or customers showing signs of financial difficulty to discuss their apparent, financial stress is not evident.
circumstances and offer solutions to prevent their accounts Corporates is the largest sector utilising other risk mitigation techniques, with all three methods utilised dependent on credit falling into arrears.
The extent to which these will be used will be dependent on the specific circumstances of the customer.
160 161 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CREDIT RISK Where a customer is part of a larger group, forbearance is 1 SME forbearance As at 30 September 2016 audited Impairment allowance on retail exercised and reported across the Group at the individual Total retail loans and advances subject to loans and advances subject to Forbearance is considered to exist for SME customers where entity level.
Where modification of the terms and conditions forbearance measures forbearance measures one or more concessions are granted on a non commercial of an exposure meeting the criteria for classification as Number of Gross carrying % of total Impairment Coverage basis.
The Group reports SME forbearance at a customer level forbearance results in derecognition of loans and advances loans amount m portfolio allowance m % and at a value which incorporates all facilities and the related from the balance sheet and the recognition of a new Formal arrangements 1,843 169 0.78 5.5 3.27 impairment allowance irrespective of whether each individual exposure, the new exposure shall be treated as forborne.
Temporary arrangements 1,460 160 0.73 2.7 1.68 facility is subject to forbearance.
Authority to grant Interest only conversion 154 22 0.10 0.1 0.26 forbearance measures for SME customers is held by the The tables below summarise the total number of Term extension 123 11 0.05 0.1 0.61 Groups Strategic Business Services unit and is exercised, arrangements in place and the loan balances and impairment where appropriate, on the basis of detailed consideration of a Other 22 2 0.01 - 0.84 provisions associated with those arrangements.
customers financial position and prospects.
As at 30 September 2016 audited Impairment allowance on SME Total SME loans and advances subject to loans and advances subject to As at 30 September 2015 audited Impairment allowance on retail forbearance measures forbearance measures Total retail loans and advances subject to loans and advances subject to Number of Gross carrying % of total Impairment Coverage forbearance measures forbearance measures loans amount m portfolio allowance m % Number of Gross carrying % of total Impairment Coverage Term extension 350 320 4.43 25.3 7.90 loans amount m portfolio allowance m % Deferral of contracted capital 118 143 1.99 18.2 12.69 Formal arrangements 2,115 179 0.87 4.0 2.22 repayments Temporary arrangements 985 99 0.48 1.5 1.57 Reduction in contracted interest rate 7 8 0.12 0.6 7.01 Interest only conversion 88 12 0.06 - 0.15 Alternative forms of payment 7 35 0.48 11.2 32.37 Term extension 131 11 0.06 0.1 0.84 Debt forgiveness 8 26 0.36 2.4 9.16 Other 11 1 0.01 - 0.39 Refinancing 22 51 0.70 4.9 9.76 Legal 216 23 0.11 1.5 6.56 Covenant breach reset waiver 62 208 2.88 8.6 4.12 3,546 325 1.59 7.1 2.19 574 791 10.96 71.2 8.99 The Group also has a number of customers with interest only explored, the Group will take steps to repossess and sell mortgages past maturity, not subject to forbearance.
In the year to 30 September 2016 there As at 30 September 2015 audited Impairment allowance on SME Group has formal processes embedded to proactively track were 78 repossessions of which 27 were voluntary 2015: 87 Total SME loans and advances subject to loans and advances subject to forbearance measures forbearance measures and facilitate prematurity customer engagement to bring the including 17 voluntary.
cases to a formal conclusion which is generally aimed to be Number of Gross carrying % of total Impairment Coverage loans amount m portfolio allowance m % achieved within six months after the loan has reached maturity.
Retail forbearance unsecured consumer credit Complex cases can take longer than this to reach conclusion.
Term extension 491 429 6.00 42.9 10.02 The Group currently exercises limited forbearance strategies in At 30 September 2016, the Group had 102 2015: 116 Deferral of contracted capital 166 152 2.12 18.6 12.23 relation to other types of consumer credit, including current customers with interest only mortgages not subject to repayments accounts, unsecured loans and credit cards.
The Group has forbearance and which were post six month maturity with a Reduction in contracted interest rate 17 29 0.40 6.8 23.64 assessed the total loan balances subject to forbearance on total value of 12m 2015: 12m.
other types of retail to be 14m at 30 September 2016 2015: Alternative forms of payment 3 16 0.22 4.5 28.76 18m, representing 1.33% of the unsecured retail portfolio Debt forgiveness 24 55 0.78 14.2 25.61 A further forbearance reserve of 4m 2015: 4m is presently 2015: 1.62%.
Impairment provisions on forborne balances Refinancing 33 61 0.86 4.7 7.56 held within the overall collective provision.
The effect of this on totalled 4.2m at 30 September 2016 2015: 5.5m, providing Covenant breach reset waiver 62 166 2.32 6.0 3.64 the above tables would be to increase the impairment overall coverage of 29.02% 2015: 29.90%.
When all Included in other financial assets at fair value is a portfolio of loans which are included in the above table.
The value of fair value other avenues of resolution including forbearance have been loans subject to forbearance at 30 September 2016 is 101m 2015: 162m, representing 1.40% of the total SME portfolio 2015: 2.27%.
Impairment allowances on these amounts totalled 11m 2015: 14m, a coverage of 10.82% 2015: 8.68%.
