Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements BALANCE SHEET & PRUDENTIAL REGULATION RISKS Pension risk Non 2015 unaudited 3 months 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Interest The Group operates a Defined Benefit DB pension scheme, There are various bases, with differing assumptions, for Overnight or less months years years Bearing Total the Yorkshire and CB Pension Scheme the Scheme.
CB measuring the Scheme liabilities.
Conversely, the Scheme m m m m m m m PLC is the Schemes principal employer and there are no assets are consistently valued at current market values.
Therefore, the variation in the net funding position between Cash and balances with central banks 5,198 1,078 25 130 - - 6,431 the bases depends on the liability valuation.
The two key bases used to value DB scheme liabilities are IAS 19, a DB pension schemes provide a promise to pay members a Due from related entities 786 - - - - - 786 pre-determined level of income at retirement which is standardised accounting measure which is the basis for Due from other banks 36 92 - - - - 128 income statement, balance sheet and capital reporting, and independent of the contributions and investment returns Financial assets available for sale 251 48 100 600 450 13 1,462 assets used to fund these benefit promises collectively the the Trustees Technical Provisions basis which determines the Due from customers 10,092 4,477 3,816 10,112 222 136 28,583 cash funding contributions to the Scheme in respect of both liabilities.
The Scheme provides members with pensions based primarily on years of service and salary.
As such, there future benefit accrual and to repair any deficit agreed as part Other assets - - - - - 1,315 1,315 of a triennial valuation.
are significant risks associated with managing a DB scheme, Total Assets 16,363 5,695 3,941 10,842 672 1,192 38,705 both in terms of benefits already built up and future benefit Liabilities accrual.
These risks will continue until the Scheme is formally The IAS 19 valuation is disclosed in note 29.
The rate used to Due to other banks 289 17 87 - - - 393 wound up, either in the event that all the liabilities are discount the liabilities on the IAS 19 basis is a key driver of transferred to a third party for example an insurer or once volatility and, as prescribed by IAS 19, is based on yields on Due to related entities 523 475 - - - - 998 all individual member benefits are paid.
As a consequence, the IAS 19 Due to customers 14,094 910 3,061 8,406 7 - 26,478 valuation can move adversely as a result of low rates and Debt securities in issue 145 3,911 - - - - 3,766 narrowing credit spreads.
Inflation is another key source of The Schemes assets are held under a separate trust and the Other liabilities 402 1,479 137 726 - 883 3,627 Scheme is managed by a corporate Trustee Board volatility.
This is because member benefits have an element of index linking and therefore the liabilities increase with rises in independently of the Group, according to the Scheme Trust Equity - 377 1,130 1,936 - - 3,443 Deed and Rules.
Therefore, the Groups ability to directly long term inflation assumptions, although in practice, over the Total Liabilities and Equity 15,163 7,169 4,415 11,068 7 883 38,705 long term, the relationship between interest and inflation manage the Scheme is limited to certain powers within the Notional value of derivatives managing 3,554 4,685 103 812 422 - governing documentation.
Aside from the Groups role to rates tends to be negatively correlated resulting in a degree interest rate sensitivity of risk offset.
sponsor the Scheme to ensure there are sufficient assets to Total interest rate gap sensitivity 2,354 3,211 371 1,038 243 309 meet benefit payments as they fall due, the Groups main Cumulative interest rate gap sensitivity 2,354 857 486 552 309 - focus is directed on mitigating the impact on capital and The triennial valuation the valuation uses the trustees earnings through working with the trustee to implement risk actuarial assumptions and a liability discount rate based on gilt reduction initiatives.
A number of activities have been yields.
The last formal valuation indicated a deficit of 450m as implemented since 2003 with the specific aim of reducing risk at 30 September 2013.
The Group agreed a deficit in the Scheme, including a derisking journey plan and a repayment schedule with the trustee resulting in payments of number of benefit reforms.
65m and 150m to the Scheme in October 2013 and June 2014 respectively.
Further annual payments of 50m are due from 1 October 2017 until October 2022 when a final The principal cause of risk within the Scheme is the difference between the assets and the liabilities.
The assets are exposed payment of 55m will be made.
to market valuation movements, within and between asset classes, whilst the liabilities are more sensitive to interest rate and inflation rate changes, and changes in other actuarial assumptions which may not be borne out in experience, for example life expectancy.
190 191 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements REGULATORY, COMPLIANCE & CONDUCT RISK EFFECTIVELY ADDRESSING LEGACY ISSUES AND BUILDING A PLATFORM FOR GROWTH Continued focus to address and eliminate legacy conduct issues while seeking to ensure that Regulators expectations are met and our current and future proposition is compliant and fair to customers.
Regulatory and Compliance risk consists of regulatory Mitigation measures Consideration of customer outcomes is embedded within the Conduct Risk strategy and change risk and regulatory relationship risk.
Groups operating processes, and metrics are regularly The Group has a regulatory engagement policy designed to Conduct Risk is the risk of treating customers unfairly and Regulatory strategy and change risk is the risk of failing to monitored to help ensure outcomes are appropriate.
ensure an open and cooperative relationship is maintained with or delivering inappropriate outcomes resulting in customer identify and monitor changes in the regulatory environment regulators at all times, ensuring that all key interactions with detriment, regulatory fines, compensation, redress costs and and of failing to take opportunities to help shape the Mitigation measures regulators are managed, recorded and escalated as appropriate.
development of emerging legislative frameworks and or to The Group has a conduct framework which recognises the All employees are required to achieve mandated standards to effectively implement the required changes.
Regulatory key conduct risks inherent in the Groups strategy through meet their compliance gateway obligations.
Risk appetite relationship risk is the risk of damaging the Groups which it seeks to apply the highest standards in the design Material changes to regulatory policies and protocols are The Group has a conservative appetite for conduct risk.
relationship with regulators through non compliance with and sale of products, and the treatment of its customers.
The approved by either the Executive Leadership Team or the regulatory requirements, not keeping regulators informed of framework incorporates target outcomes and operating Board.
Exposures relevant issues impacting or which may potentially impact principles to ensure the Groups business model and The CRO and Risk Leadership Team consider compliance risk the Group, and not meeting the information requests and As part of the demerger, NAB and the Group have entered supporting business practices achieve fair treatment of topics when setting risk appetite and through ongoing risk review findings of regulators, by providing incorrect or into a Conduct Indemnity Deed where NAB has agreed to customers and the avoidance of customer detriment.
inadequate information, not meeting regulatory deadlines or provide the Group with an indemnity in respect of certain obstructing the regulator from fulfilling its role.
historic liabilities relating to conduct in the period prior to the Products are subject to a product governance framework Monitoring demerger date.
Details of the Conduct Indemnity Deed are methodology and are designed and sold to meet customer Risk appetite A risk management oversight and compliance monitoring plan is included in note 27 Provisions.
needs and expectations with governance processes approved by the Boards Risk Committee on an annual basis The Group has no appetite for regulatory breaches.
embedded to ensure those objectives are met.
which independently assesses the control framework There continues to be a great deal of uncertainty and underpinning compliance with laws and regulations.
significant judgement is required in determining the quantum Monitoring of conduct risk related liabilities with note 27 reflecting the This is a principal focus of the Board, senior management Groups current position in relation to redress provisions for and regulators, and the Group seeks to ensure customers PPI, IRHPs and other smaller historic conduct matters.
The are treated fairly and products are designed and sold to final amount required to settle the Groups potential liabilities meet their needs, customer expectations are met and for these matters is materially uncertain.
The Group will complaints are dealt with effectively and fairly.
All three lines continue to reassess the adequacy of provisions for these of defence consider conduct risk as part of their oversight matters and the assumptions underlying the calculations at and assurance activities.
each reporting date based upon experience and other relevant factors at that time.
192 193 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements OPERATIONAL RISK INCLUDING STRATEGIC, BUSINESS, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & PEOPLE RISKS PROACTIVE OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT WITH ENHANCED RISK FRAMEWORKS The Group continues to strengthen its controls to manage risk, transferring it via insurance where there is a tangible commercial benefit, and minimising its loss profile, thereby preventing an increased operational risk capital requirement.
Risk Category Customer, products and sales The risks associated with the fair treatment of customers and the potential customer impact Operational risk including Strategic, Business, Financial and reputation.
practices on all the Groups core activities.
Performance and People Risks is the risk of loss resulting Regulatory environment and The risks associated with ensuring the Group complies with a large volume of laws and from inadequate or failed internal processes, people Approach to Monitoring and Mitigating Exposures market practices regulations, including managing regulatory change.
strategies and systems or from external events including, for Losses may result from both internal and external events, and Payments and process The risks associated with the management of large volumes of transactions, including example, the prospect of a cyber attack.
It is a core are categorised using risk categories aligned to Basel II.
The management ensuring core processing activities are conducted safely and efficiently.
component of the RMF and is embedded in day to day Basel II categories are used to ensure that the identification, Workplace practices and The risks associated with failing to provide a safe environment for customers and colleagues, business activities.
Responsibilities are set out in a structured assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting of risks and environment including ensuring there is adequate capacity of resource, with clearly defined objectives and operational risk framework that seeks to identify, assess, events is applied consistently.
an effective and efficient management structure in place.
mitigate, monitor, and report the operational risks and events Systems and infrastructure The risks associated with failing to maintain the Groups systems and infrastructure, including that could impact the achievement of business objectives or The Group has identified, assessed and is currently as a result of a potential cyber attack.
monitoring all key operational risks across the above noted Third party providers The risks associated with failing to manage third party providers effectively, which may also categories, including undertaking an assessment of control Business Units are responsible for the day to day impact on the level of service available to customers.
effectiveness, monitoring trends in key risk indicators and management of operational risk, with oversight from the risk escalating events, in accordance with policy requirements.
Strategic Execution Risk The risks associated with failing to manage change effectively, including the ability to define management function, and independent assurance activities and deliver a plan that enables the Group to meet its strategic objectives.
Stress testing The Group undertakes scenario analysis to gain insights into The requirements of the operational risk management the stresses the business could be subject to in the event of framework are defined in an overarching operational risk this type of operational risk materialising.
The Group policy and related minimum standards, and reflect the Groups maintains a suite of operational risk scenarios covering the operational risk appetite.
Basel II event types relevant to its business.
As part of the scenario analysis approach, the suite of operational risk Risk Appetite scenarios are reviewed and updated on a regular basis for The Group is prepared to tolerate a level of operational risk existing potential impacts and identification of potential new exposure within agreed thresholds and limits.
Management then document a proposed risks arise from the day to day business activities, which may response to identify how the scenarios would be managed result in direct or indirect losses and could adversely impact and monitored if they occurred.
the Groups financial performance, levels of customer care 194 195 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements F I N AN C I AL CRIME RISK A STRENGTHENED AND ROBUST FINANCIAL CRIME FRAMEWORK The Group continues to invest in its systems and controls to prevent, detect, screen and report financial crime, demonstrating a tangible uplift in effectiveness.
Financial Crime Risk is the risk that the Groups products Anti-Bribery and Corruption The Group does not tolerate Mitigation measures The control framework is owned by financial crime risk but management and execution of customer identity and and services will be used to facilitate financial crime against the direct or indirect offer, payment, solicitation or Risk Assessments against the four financial crime policy the Group, its customers or third parties.
It encompasses acceptance of bribes in any form.
The Group has in place risk verification, customer due diligence, enhanced due diligence, standards take place on an annual basis.
Over and above identifying high risk customers, including correspondent the risk of failing to understand and comply with relevant assessments, policies and guidelines on interacting with these assessments, regular oversight of higher risk activities laws, regulations and supervisory requirements relating to customers, suppliers and agents, including specific policies for banking relationships and record keeping is the responsibility of are performed as part of the formal oversight plan and money laundering, terrorism financing, bribery and gifts and hospitality.
Senior managers across the business are 1st line business units.
embedded activities take place throughout the year.
Key corruption and sanctions and embargoes.
It also includes required to complete an evaluation of risk areas as part of the performance metrics relative to the critical financial crime risks associated with external or internal acts intended to risk assessment process.
Account opening pass rates are oversighted as part of a systems sanctions politically exposed persons screening for defraud, misappropriate, and circumvent policy, funds, regular process undertaken by financial crime risk and customers and payments, transaction monitoring, account information, regulations and property.
The Group maintains Fraud The Group accepts that in order to conduct reported monthly.
opening performance are discussed at a regular, formal an overarching financial crime policy and four policy business in a commercially viable manner, it is willing to calibration meeting.
Performance of systems is also measured standards aligned to each material financial crime risk.
sustain fraud losses within an agreed set of parameters.
The Higher risk customers are referred to financial crime risk and using a third party tool to ensure effectiveness is not being These are: application of fraud risk management considers customer senior management within Customer Banking for agreement eroded or diminishing.
Training completion and compliance impacts, industry trends and financial impacts of fraud which and sign off that business is within appetite and then continue is subject to annual oversight.
Sanctions The Group has no appetite for non compliance on occasion provide conflicting priorities.
Emerging risks are to be monitored on an ongoing basis.
with the legal and regulatory obligations relative to Sanctions identified and assessed with action taken to mitigate them.
All standards are reflected in the Group policies and standards and Embargoes.
To reflect the Groups risk appetite and to An agreed loss plan is set and performance against this is Screening customers for sanctions politically exposed and financial crime prevention manual, the content of which is protect the Group from financial and reputational damage, overseen by the Policy owner and reported through the persons and transaction monitoring is carried out by financial provided by financial crime risk and updated as appropriate.
including regulatory censure, fines and enforcement action, appropriate Governance Committees.
With regard to crime risk.
Sanctions screening for payments is carried out by the Sanctions & Embargoes Policy articulates a set of internal fraud, the Group recognises the risk of internal fraud the Payments team in the 1st line.
Critical financial crime Monitoring minimum standards and requirements which must be but has no appetite for it.
Consequently there is a control systems oversight is independently tested by Internal Audit.
The financial crime team is responsible for strategy, complied with.
framework in place to mitigate that risk.
governance, standard setting, oversight, training and reporting to the competent authorities and governance committees Anti-Money Laundering The Group applies a prescribed high Exposures Board.
risk customer model which sets out the types of customer it There are currently no significant exposures to report.
The has no risk appetite to onboard as well as customers with Group continues to review the external environment for whom the Group is prohibited from entering into or any change in regulatory or legislative direction, taking maintaining a customer relationship.
All other customers who action as appropriate.
are not prescribed shall be subject to controls commensurate with their risk.
196 197 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 F I N AN C I AL S TAT EM EN T S Civic Hall, Leeds
