corPorate Governance The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance chairmans introduction of the Company.
Its strong governance framework as illustrated below is supported by a combination of clear values, appropriate As Chairman my role is to lead the policy, and an environment of transparency and accountability.
The Board and ensure it delivers against Boards central role is to work alongside the executive team its responsibilities.
A strong providing support, challenge, guidance and leadership.
I believe that governance framework enables the the Board of Dairy Crest is well balanced with a broad range of skills, Board to do so, helping to ensure it diversity and experience.
has clarity of purpose and a common understanding of the In the coming year we shall continue to focus on succession responsibilities and accountabilities planning at Board level and the on-going execution of our strategy of which it must keep in mind when generating growth by building strong positions in branded and going about its business.
The added value markets, especially as manufacture commences at our Board has two key responsibilities.
It must provide new whey and GOS plants in Davidstow: all within an appropriate entrepreneurial leadership to the business while at the same time risk framework.
Our governance framework helps the Board to focus on the detailed activities which sit within those stephen alexander Chairman two broad responsibilities.
As a Board we are committed to 18 May 2016 delivering the best possible outcomes and we are conscious of the need to take account of and balance the interests of all of our stakeholders.
In my introduction to our last Governance report I spoke of a period Governance framework of change as a board.
I am pleased to be able to report that the last The diagram below sets out the structure used to govern the year has been a period of consolidation for the Board as we have Company.
Through our governance structure we have established a completed our first year under my chairmanship.
During the year we clearly defined set of values which are communicated throughout have focused on continuing to deliver our strategy, in particular the the Group.
Our values are supported by a range of procedures and completion of the sale of the Dairies business and the construction guidelines providing an appropriate roadmap to inform employees of the demineralised whey and GOS plants at our Davidstow behaviour.
Together with external governance codes they set an creamery, all of which are about strengthening our position in added effective framework for the Groups standards and governance.
We have focused on succession planning at Board and senior executive levels and have concluded our triennial board Remuneration Nomination effectiveness review using an external facilitator: in this instance, Committee Committee Group Russell Reynolds Associates has assisted us.
Further details of the Board Audit CR effectiveness review are set out at page 33 under Board Committee Committee effectiveness review.
Organisations which demonstrate good governance have clear and Management Board understood values.
The Boards behaviour and the values it demonstrates set the tone for the organisation.
Ensuring that the right tone is set at the top of our organisation in order to guide its behaviour and to ensure that our organisation lives by and Demand HR Finance Legal Supply demonstrates the right values is a core responsibility of the Board and is a part of the management of risk.
The values must enable entrepreneurial and prudent management of the resources which you, our shareholders, have entrusted to us so that we can deliver the Board long-term success for Dairy Crest and all its stakeholders.
In this role: The Board is collectively responsible for the entrepreneurial Report we demonstrate how we have addressed the principles of leadership and control of the Company against a framework of good governance through, amongst other things, ensuring that we prudent and effective controls enabling the assessment and have in place an effective internal framework of systems and controls management of risk.
As custodian of the Groups strategic aims, which clearly define authority and accountability while at the same vision and values it ensures that the necessary human, financial and time enabling the appropriate management of risk.
other resources necessary for the delivery of long-term success of the Group are in place and scrutinises and reviews managements A key benchmark is our compliance with the UK Corporate performance.
Each Director is aware of their responsibilities, Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council individually and collectively, to promote the long-term success of the FRC in September 2014 Code which can be found at www.
Company consistent with their statutory duties.
I am pleased to report that we have complied with all relevant provisions of the Code during the 2015 16 year.
How it operates: The Boards agenda through the year is preplanned with sufficient time allowed to enable the Board to react and respond to the changing landscape of the Groups business as the year progresses.
The Boards key accountabilities are: Framing the Groups values and associated behaviours Approval of the Groups long-term objectives and business strategy Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 31 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Maintaining an overview and control of the Groups operating and senior independent director: Richard Macdonald is the financial performance Companys Senior Independent Director.
He provides a sounding Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control board to the Chairman.
He also acts as a lightning rod should and risk management matters arise which Directors wish to discuss with someone other Oversight of the Companys governance and compliance than the Chairman.
He is available to shareholders and other framework, including key Group policies, for example Health and stakeholders in the Groups business as needed: and where Safety and Business Conduct and considering regulatory changes required, he deputises for the Chairman.
and developments non-executive directors: All Non-executive Directors including A formal schedule of matters reserved has been adopted by the the Chairman confirmed on appointment that they had sufficient Board and is available on the Groups website www.
time available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and that they would inform the Board should the position change.
Details of the delegation of authority: the Board has delegated authority to five Chairmans other significant professional commitments are included committees: in his biography page 29.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to have sufficient time available to fulfil his obligations as a Director Audit Committee and Chairman.
All significant commitments of Non-executive Nomination Committee Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and Management Board the Board was informed of subsequent changes.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Remuneration Committee As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors scrutinise managements performance in meeting agreed goals and The individual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Corporate objectives.
The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of Responsibility and Remuneration Committees prefaced by an performance.
The Chief Executives objectives, achievement of introduction from the chairman of each can be found at pages 36 to which influences his remuneration, are agreed with the 60.
The Committees terms of reference, which to the extent Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the required, comply with the Code, can be found on the Groups Chairman.
Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by website.
Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors and Management Board which under its terms of reference has scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the delegated authority from the Board over operational decisions.
robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk management.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for composition: At the date of this Report, the Board comprises six determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors two Executive, a Non-executive Chairman who was Directors.
The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting independent on appointment and three independent Non-executive and recommending Directors for appointment and in succession Directors.
Directors biographical details, experience, responsibilities planning.
The appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors and other commitments are set out at pages 28 to 29. from the Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Balance and independence: With three independent NonThe Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the executive Directors and a Chairman who was independent on Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
appointment, all of whom are free of any relationship which could Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the running of materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment, the Company or a proposed action, they would be recorded in the the composition of the Board satisfies the requirements of the Code.
The Non-executive Directors recognise the principle The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate the suitable that if on resignation from the Board a Director has unresolved breadth of experience and backgrounds required to provide effective concerns, that Director should provide a written statement to the leadership for the Group.
Details of the Groups approach to diversity Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The concept that Nonare set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee at page 39. executive Directors are free to question any executive decision of the Company is enshrined in the engagement letter of each Nonchairman and chief executive: These roles are distinct and executive Director.
separate with clearly defined accountabilities set out for each which can be found on the Groups website Chairman Chief Executive information and support: The Company Secretary advises the Division of Responsibilities.
The Chairman has particular Chairman and the Board on all governance matters and ensures responsibility for the effectiveness of the Groups governance.
He is Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations accountable for ensuring the Boards effectiveness in discharging its complied with.
He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely responsibilities, safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder manner with information in a form and of a quality which enables the interests and promoting effective communication with shareholders.
Board to discharge its duties.
The Board, the Committees and all Together with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Company Secretary he sets the agenda for Board Meetings and Secretary.
He provides the Board with regular reports on directs the focus of the Board ensuring that adequate time is governance issues.
Procedures exist for Directors to seek available for all agenda items.
In promoting a culture of openness independent professional advice at the Companys expense where among the Board and ensuring constructive relations between required.
Executive and Non-executive Directors, he facilitates the effective contribution of all Directors.
To help ensure a proper dialogue with all Directors, the Chairman meets with Directors individually and talks to the Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 effectiveness: Normally the Board has eight scheduled meetings meetings held during the 2015 16 year and Directors attendance at in its annual work plan.
It holds additional meetings on an ad hoc those meetings is set out in the table below.
basis as and when required.
Details of the Board and Committee Board and main committee meetings The Directors named in the table below held office during the year.
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Directors inthe year is shown in the table below.
The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended during 2015 16.
Board audit remuneration nomination corporate Management responsibility Board Mr M allen 8 8 2 2 36 40 Mr t atherton 8 8 2 2 36 40 Mr s alexander 8 8 1 1 Mr a carr-Locke 8 8 4 4 4 4 1 1 Ms s farr 8 8 4 4 4 4 1 1 2 2 Mr r Macdonald 8 8 4 4 4 4 1 1 1 2 Board effectiveness review engaging with the Group HR Director, the Group Commercial We reported last year that the Board normally undertakes an annual Director and the Group Supply Chain Director: being the other effectiveness review and in accordance with the provisions of the members of the Management Board who have regular interaction Code arranges for the effectiveness review to be externally facilitated with the Directors and regularly attend and present to Board at least every three years.
We also reported that as a result of the meetings.
Russell Reynolds then compiled their report which it unforeseen need for changes to the Board in 2014 with Anthony discussed initially with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Frys departure from the Board and the appointment of Stephen Director before presenting their findings and recommendations to Alexander as Chairman, the Boards plans for its effectiveness the full Board.
In terms of future composition, the Board will be review had been interrupted.
The Board decided that in light of considering the benefits of increasing the size of the Board to add Stephens new appointment as Chairman towards the end of 2014, it further relevant skills and experience.
would be more valuable to the Board to defer its effectiveness review to give it time to adjust to the changes.
The performance of Executive Directors in the context of their management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the Preparations for an externally facilitated board effectiveness review normal way.
As is the case with all management grade employees, commenced in 2015 with the selection of an external facilitator.
Executive Directors participate in the Groups performance and Following a tender exercise run by the Chairman and the Senior development review process.
Under that process, the Chairman Independent Director, with the assistance of the Company appraises the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief Secretary, in which a long list of possible external facilitators was Executive appraises the performance of the Group Finance Director.
compiled resulting in a short list of three who then presented to the The outcome of reviews of performance of both Executive Directors Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, Russell Reynolds is scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee.
The outcome of the Associates was appointed as the external facilitator for the performance review of Executive Directors is set out in the Directors effectiveness review which was conducted in the last quarter of the Remuneration Report at page 49. year.
Russell Reynolds has been engaged by the Group in the past for the provision of search and selection services in relation to senior induction and development: the Company Secretary ensures appointments to the Group.
that Directors undergo a comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
In addition to equipping Directors with sufficiently Following appointment, Russell Reynolds met with the Chairman detailed knowledge of the operations of the Groups business and the Company Secretary, with input from the Senior Independent necessary to enable them effectively to carry out their duties, the Director, to agree the approach to and to scope the effectiveness induction programme is tailored to their experience, background and review.
The agreed scope of the effectiveness review was to develop particular areas of focus.
a strong understanding of how the skills of each Director support the organisations strategy, as well as Directors contribution to ensuring conflicts of interest: The Companies Act 2006 places a duty on the governance processes and Committees are operating each Director to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have effectively.
In addition, the review included an assessment of all a direct or indirect interest which conflicts or may conflict with the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, as well as specific interests of the Company.
That duty is in addition to the obligation executives, namely the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and owed by Directors to the Company to disclose to the Board any the Company Secretary.
transaction or arrangement which gives rise or may give rise to a conflict of interest under consideration by the Company.
Procedures Russell Reynolds attended a Board meeting to observe the Board in are in place for Directors to disclose conflicts or potential conflicts of action and compiled an initial questionnaire for completion by all interest.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles authorise Directors and the Company Secretary.
They then met with each of the Directors, where appropriate, to authorise conflicts or possible the Directors and the Company Secretary individually, as well as conflicts of interest between Directors and the Company.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 33 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Non-executive Directors letters of appointment require them to The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is obtain the prior approval of the Board to appointments external to dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the the Company where those appointments might affect the time they meeting.
Ordinarily all Directors attend the AGM and are available to are able to devote to their role.
That requirement assists the Board to answer shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting.
ensure no conflict of interest may result from such appointments.
The Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on When considering conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, the the progress and performance of the Group before the formal conflicted or potentially conflicted Director is excluded from business of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed participation in the Boards consideration of the conflict or potential relating to the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the proxy conflict situation.
As part of the formalised year-end sign off process voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM including the Directors confirm in writing whether they have any present or level of votes for and against resolutions and abstentions, and are anticipated conflicts of interest.
As at April 2016 the Directors all posted on the Companys website following the conclusion of the confirmed that they had no present or anticipated conflicts of meeting.
Consistent with corporate governance best practice, voting at the AGM is conducted on a poll.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
risk management and internal control The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks it appointment and re-election: The Articles provide that the is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It has overall Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a responsibility for monitoring the Groups risk management and Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
A Director internal control systems and the effectiveness of those systems.
It is appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next Annual General assisted in that task by the Audit Committee and the Group Internal Meeting AGM following appointment and shall be eligible for Audit function.
There is an on-going process for identifying, election by the members.
The Articles require all Directors to be evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Group.
All Directors will stand for re-election at the Board has delegated responsibility for management of day-to-day Companys 2016 AGM.
Having regard to the roles performed by operational risks to the Management Board.
The Audit Committee each of the Directors, the individual input and contribution they make conducts reviews of the internal control systems and the Board and their individual expertise and experience, the Board is satisfied reviews them annually.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified that each candidates performance justifies nomination for reby the Group are set out at pages 16 to 17 along with the steps election by shareholders.
Service agreements of Executive Directors which are taken to mitigate and manage them.
The Board has and a template letter of appointment of Non-executive Directors are satisfied itself that its systems accord with the FRCs Guidance on published on the Companys website and are available for inspection Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and by any person at the Companys registered office during normal Business Reporting and that satisfactory internal control procedures office hours and will also be available at the 2016 AGM for 15 and systems have been in place throughout the year and up to and minutes before and throughout the meeting.
including the date of this Report in compliance with the requirements of the Code.
A rolling audit programme conducted by Group Internal dialogue with shareholders Audit across the Group forms a key facet of the Groups systems of The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship internal control.
The Head of Group Internal Audit reports with its shareholders.
It fully supports the principles encouraging independently to the chairman of the Audit Committee on assurance dialogue between companies and their shareholders in the Code matters.
It is not possible to eliminate risk entirely.
Accordingly, and the UK Stewardship Code.
The Chief Executive and Group although the systems are designed to manage risks they cannot Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Presentations are made to analysts at various points through the They provide reasonable assurance that potential issues can be year and meetings are held with key institutional shareholders to identified promptly and remedied appropriately.
The key discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities components of the risk management and internal control systems immediately after the Interim and Preliminary Results include: Announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional shareholders are made available on the Companys website along The adoption and communication of clearly documented values, with annual and interim reports, interim management statements, policies, procedures and processes, including, amongst others, trading updates and company announcements.
Announcements are Business Conduct policy made as appropriate and required through a Regulatory Information Reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, all Service.
significant strategic, financial and organisational risks A management structure which includes clear lines of All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and responsibility and documented delegations of authority with Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, shareholders.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Groups assets provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
The forecasting and review processes Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic Head of Group Internal Audit, over the Groups control processes reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
Following reporting last years AGM we shall be writing to and engaging with key The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the shareholders on our remuneration policy and its application during business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of the year.
the Groups business, trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board 34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget including The Boards assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for nature of the Annual Report and Accounts is further assisted by, mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks amongst other matters, the following: in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each key constituent part of the Group and key departments report The Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel with overall coordination by the Company Secretary & General comprising the Management Board and other senior managers Counsel.
Formal documented financial controls and procedures including specific procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of An internal verification process is undertaken by the Internal Auditors significant contracts to ensure factual accuracy.
Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the Comprehensive reviews of the draft Annual Report and Accounts approval of business unit management are undertaken by Management Board members, and in relation to Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed certain sections by the Companys external lawyers, by the External by senior management, the Management Board and the Board Auditor and other advisers.
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Management The drafts of each relevant section are reviewed as they are Board and independent assurance over the appropriate prepared through an iterative drafting process by the Chairman of implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by appropriate Committees of the Board and the final draft is reviewed Group Internal Audit by those Committees prior to consideration by the Board.
Review by the Audit Committee of the Groups risk register processes At its May 2016 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that Review and approval of the audit plan for the Groups Internal the Annual Report and Accounts for financial year 2015 16, taken as Audit function together with progress against and revision of the a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Board plan as appropriate, throughout the year believes that the information contained therein provides the Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, and Groups performance, business model and strategy.
corrective action plans and progress against those plans The operation of an integrated business planning process with formal procedures for highlighting on a monthly cycle financial performance and risks to budgetary delivery together with associated opportunities to counteract or mitigate those risks to performance fair balanced and understandable: Provision C. 1 of the Code requires the Directors to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
When the provision was first introduced to the Code, the Audit Committee adopted a detailed process to enable the Board to report against this principle of the Code.
The resultant more structured approach see table below to the preparation of the Report and Accounts has been repeated in the production of this Report and Accounts which the Board formally signed off at its meeting in May 2016.
January february March april May initial content agree key review and formal sign off production messages sign off Consider level of Prepare content Start completing Confirmation from assurance not dependent on and collating contributors as to obtained over year end results, performance completeness of non-financial e. g. : business related content, input.
information in the model, strategy, e. g. remuneration ARA.
of full content, for Where applicable governance Consider new consistency, Audit Committee to sections.
regulations and completeness and formally report to Project Manager consistency with messaging: review the Board on how it PM considers key messages and and amend.
has satisfied itself whether content KPIs.
Sign-off by collated is itself and PM considers section owners.
Board to minute collectively fair whether content consideration of balanced and Bring together all collated is itself and FBU with Board understandable section owners to collectively FBU: paper showing the FBU : review and agree that whole review and amend process and amend.
Accounts ARA is Identify material FBU.
events performance Consider formal issues that will sign off from need to be section owners to reported the Board.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 35 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED valuation being disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty audit committee report within the interim financial statements.
The sale completed on 26 December 2015 and consequently the Dairies business has This is my seventh year of chairing continued to be disclosed as discontinued in the full year Group the Audit Committee.
In that time, financial statements.
We considered carefully and concluded it was we have established and refined appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset from the sale.
a process of governance and work.
As a matter of course we 2. revenue recognition reconsider our terms of reference Revenue recognition and promotional accruals are significant to the each year, taking into account Group given revenue should not be incorrectly stated through the changes to Dairy Crest and to misrepresentation of promotional expenditure and accruals.
Committee and the external auditor considered the main areas of We then develop a clear work plan judgment exercised by management in arriving at the accounting through the year to ensure we fulfil all our responsibilities.
At the treatment for all matters related to relevant recognition including the core of those responsibilities is ensuring the Company is operating levels of promotional accruals, the representation of profits and an effective risk assessment and management process and that liabilities, and the associated controls.
The Committee and the an appropriate control framework is in place.
We are helped by external auditor concurred with the judgments made by the Internal Audit function which reports directly to the Committee management in respect of the accounting policy for accruals release and which works against an agreed plan to ensure controls are and were satisfied that the revenue reported for the year had been effective.
One of the Committees other key responsibilities is ensuring the 3. exceptional items Groups published accounts have integrity and are consistent with For both the interim financial statements and the full year Group accounting and governance requirements.
In achieving this we have financial statements, the Committee examined the appropriateness given particular consideration to the new viability statement and of items being classified as exceptional and their compliance with concentrated on the fair balanced and understandable requirements the Groups accounting policies in light of the guidance issued by the for the Annual Report.
In this regard we are helped by receiving a FRC.
The Committee was satisfied that exceptional items had been number of appropriate papers from the Group Finance Director and appropriately classified and disclosed, treated consistently and that his team and by the independent work of our external auditors.
discussions with management were transparent.
We respond to developments during the year as required, focussing 4. fair balanced and understandable on key matters which arise in addition to our planned work The Committee has undertaken a detailed review in assessing programme.
This year, the sale of the Dairies business was a key whether the 2016 Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and event.
We have concentrated on appropriate accounting for the understandable, and whether it provided the necessary information disposal, the control environment as the Group reorganised: and on to shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model our security strategy for IT and business systems.
The Committee reviewed and made suggestions to the processes put in place by management to provide the necessary As part of the Financial Reporting Councils normal work programme assurance that appropriate disclosures are made and it reviewed we were fortunate to receive a report on EYs audit of our prior year managements assessment of items included in the financial accounts and coincidentally a review by the Financial Reporting statements and the prominence given to those items.
The Council of the Companys annual accounts as well.
We found this Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2016 Report independent input both helpful and reassuring.
and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Looking ahead, and as previously indicated, we plan to conduct a 5.
Going concern tender process during 2016 with the objective of appointing new The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of adopting the going external auditors for the commencement of the 2017 18 financial year.
concern basis of accounting in preparing the full year financial statements and assessed whether the business was viable in significant matters relating to the Groups 2016 financial accordance with the new requirement of the Code.
The assessment statements: included a review of the principal risks facing the Group, their The most significant matters considered by the Committee in financial impact, how they were being managed, together with a relation to the Groups 2016 financial statements were: discussion as to the appropriate period for assessment.
The Groups viability statement is included in the Directors report on page 61.
1. accounting treatment for the dairies business For both the interim financial statements and the full year Group The regular challenge and engagement with management, the financial statements, the Committee has reviewed with management external auditor and the internal audit team, together with the timely and the external auditors the accounting treatment adopted and receipt of high quality reports and information from them, has enabled disclosed for the Dairies business.
In reviewing the interim results, the Committee to discharge its duties and responsibilities efficiently.
the Committee considered whether the transaction had met the criteria of highly probable under IFRS5 non current assets held for I would like to record my thanks for the support of the other sale and its discontinued operations based on the Competition and members of the Committee, from Dairy Crests Internal Audit and Markets Authoritys CMA latest announcements on approving the Finance teams: and to Ernst & Young LLP EY for their thorough transaction.
The Committee confirmed that the accounting approach.
conclusion that the Dairies business should be presented as held for sale was appropriate based on the CMAs announcement that it andrew carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee proposed to accept modified undertakings provided by Mller, and 18 May 2016 that the level of impairment of assets was appropriate, with the 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Membership: details of the members of the Committee at the date 11 May 2015 Received and considered EYs 2015 Audit Results Report of this report together with details of attendance at meetings are set Reviewed managements review of changes to relevant out at page 33.
No changes to the membership of the Committee accounting standards and policies affecting the draft Report occurred during the year.
The Board considers that the Chairman of and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2015 including the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience for the compliance with the fair balanced and understandable principle and the going concern assessment purposes of the Code.
Reviewed its own performance and that of EY along with invitations to attend meetings: a standing invitation has been EYs objectivity and the independence and effectiveness of EYs processes, and recommended to the Board EYs made by the Committee to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief reappointment as the external auditor Executive and the Group Finance Director to attend the Committees meetings.
The Group Financial Controller, Head of Group Internal Received Group Internal Audits report on financial and operational controls audits, updates on whistleblowing Audit and representatives of the external auditor attend all meetings notifications and progress against its audit plan.
Approved at the invitation of the Committee.
During the year the external and Group Internal Audits work plan for the next financial year internal auditors attended all meetings and also met privately with 8 september Received and considered a report on the Groups proposed the Committee.
2015 accounting for its Dairies business within the interim financial statements role and responsibilities: the Committees role and Considered EYs 2015 16 Audit Planning Report responsibilities are concerned with financial reporting, narrative reporting, whistleblowing and fraud, internal controls and risk Received Group Internal Audits report on financial and operational controls audits, and whistleblowing notifications management systems, internal audit and external audit.
The Committees scheduled activities are planned in accordance with its 30 october Received and reviewed an update on the Groups safe terms of reference, which have been approved by the Board.
2015 contractor accreditation policy, together with the appropriate controls and recommended changes to the policy terms of reference: the Committee has documented terms of Received and considered managements judgments and reference which are approved by the Board.
They are reviewed at estimates in relation to the interim financial statements, in particular the classifications of the Dairies business as held least annually and were last reviewed at the Committees meeting in for sale under IFRS 5 Non current assets held for sale and March 2016.
The Committees terms of reference comply with the its discontinued operations and the associated impairment Code and can be found on the Groups website.
of assets on held for sale valuation.
Received managements analytical review of the Groups objectives: the Board has delegated authority to the Committee to results for the 6 months ended 30 September 2015: reviewed and approved the draft Interim Financial oversee and review the Groups financial reporting process, system Statements for that period for recommendation to the Board of internal control and management of business risks, the internal audit process, the external audit process and relationship with the Received and considered EYs Interim Review Report for the 6 month period ended at 30 September 2015 external auditor and the Companys process for monitoring compliance with applicable laws and external regulations.
Final Received an updated on the various operation work streams responsibility for financial reporting, compliance with laws and facilitating the sale of the Dairies business regulations and risk management rests with the Board to which the 11 March 2016 Received and reviewed an update on the Groups Committee regularly reports back.
accounting for the disposal of the Dairies business Received and considered a report on the changes to risk Meetings: the Committees core work is driven by a structured disclosure and the viability statement under the Code.
programme of activity settled at the start of the year between the Committee Chairman, management and external auditors.
As well Received and considered EYs Audit Update Report as its core work, the Committee undertakes additional work in Received and considered EYs response to the FRCs review response to the evolving audit landscape.
The following nonof EYs audit of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 exhaustive list provides highlights of the Committees core and additional work undertaken during the year: Received Group Internal Audits update on financial and operational audits conducted and progress with its audit plan, as well as whistleblowing notifications received and an update on the revised Group Internal Audit charter Received an update on audit regulations and proposal for the audit tender process in 2016 17 Received an update on and reviewed the Groups IT security risks Reviewed managements response to the constructive enquiry received from the FRC which is now closed in respect of the Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and the resulting improvements to disclosure Reviewed the Committees performance during the year against its work plan satisfying itself that it had achieved its work plan as well as a number of additional matters which had arisen during the year and that it had satisfied its remit under its terms of reference, which it also reviewed and decided that no changes were required Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 37 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED external auditor objectivity and independence: the objectivity The Committee discussed the implications of the CMAs Order and independence of the external auditor is critical to the integrity of requiring FTSE 350 companies to hold an audit tender every 10 the Groups audit.
During the year the Committee reviewed the years as well as the final European Commission EC regulations.
external auditors own policies and procedures for safeguarding its The Committee noted that based on the EC transitional objectivity and independence.
There are no contractual restrictions arrangements the final year that EY can be appointed as the Groups on the Group with regard to the external auditors appointment.
The auditors is for the year ended 31 March 2020. audit engagement partner provided his annual representation to the Committee as to the external auditors independence and confirmed At its meeting in March 2016, the Committee considered the timing that EYs reward and remuneration structure includes no incentives of a potential tender for the external audit.
It concluded that the for him to cross sell non-audit services to audit clients.
The audit tender process should take place during 2016 to enable the engagement partner rotation requirements have been routinely appointment of a new external auditor in readiness for the start of observed, with a change implemented in September 2015. the 2017 18 financial year on 1 April 2017.
EY will not be invited to tender.
The Committees assessment of EYs independence is underpinned by the Groups policy on the use of EY for the provision of non-audit The Committee monitors the performance of the external auditor services.
The policy contains a presumption against the use of the throughout the year and formally concludes the assessment of its external auditor for non-audit services.
EY may only be engaged for performance every May and makes a corresponding the provision of non-audit services in contravention of that recommendation on the appointment of EY for the forthcoming presumption where those services are expressly permitted under financial year to the Board.
Shareholders formally appoint the the policy and where there is a demonstrable efficiency, audit external auditor at the AGM in July.
In light of the assessments and enhancement or cost benefit resulting from the engagement of the review undertaken last May, the Board endorsed the Committees external auditor.
Furthermore, before it may be engaged for the recommendation which was approved by shareholders in July 2015. provision of such non-audit services, alternative providers must have At its meeting in May 2016, the Audit Committee considered the been considered and discounted.
appropriateness of the re-appointment of EY as the Groups external auditor for the 2016 17 year.
In doing so it took account of the Services which the external auditor is prohibited from providing to Committees review of the external auditors independence and the Group include, amongst others: objectivity, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit process together with other relevant review processes Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information conducted throughout the year.
The Committee was satisfied that it The design, supply or implementation of financial information should recommend to the Board the re-appointment of EY as the systems Companys and Groups external auditor.
Appraisal or valuation services Internal audit services Actuarial services Fees paid to EY during the year are set out in the table below, together with prior year comparisons: 2015 16 2014 15 m m 0.4 0.4 total audit fees non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 Taxation services 0.1 0.5 Other non-audit services 0.2 0.6 total non-audit fees 0.6 1.0 total fees Details of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during the year, which included advice on the Dairies sale transaction, are set out at Note 2 to the Accounts at page 83.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees were not material relative to the income of the external auditor firm as a whole.
It was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor was maintained throughout the year.
external auditor appointment: EY has been the Company and Groups external auditor since the Company floated in 1996.
The external audit appointment has not been tendered competitively since EYs appointment.
Their performance has been reviewed annually by the Committee since that time.
38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 suitable development plans, fulfilment of which over an appropriate nomination committee report timeframe will result in future internal candidates for consideration for Board roles along with other candidates identified through the This report on the work of the Nomination Committee is my first adoption of the above-mentioned process which would be used since my appointment as Chairman of the Committee in March were the Committee required to assist the Board with the 2015.
All of our Non-executive Directors are now members of the recruitment of a Director.
Committee and details of their attendance at Committee meetings during the year are set out on page 33.
The Chief Executive also focus for the next Year: The Committee will be assisting the attends meetings by invitation.
Board in its consideration of expanding the Board to add further relevant skills and experience.
director appointments: The Committees primary responsibility is to consider and recommend to the Board candidates who are diversity: The Committee monitors diversity on behalf of the Board.
appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-executive The Group interprets diversity in its widest sense and aims to Directors.
Its objective is to maintain an appropriate balance of skills achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by ensuring an and experience on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshment appropriate mix of skills, backgrounds, gender, experience and of the Board.
knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers and other employees.
The Committee considers that first and foremost, Processes for director appointments: The process for the appointments must be made based on an objective assessment of appointment of new Directors is rigorous and transparent.
The who is the best person to fill a role, with candidates drawn from a Committee ensures that the recruitment exercise for Directors is diverse range of backgrounds.
The Company has not adopted conducted against a documented brief setting out the requirements targets for female representation amongst the Directors.
The Group of the role and the skills and experience required of the person to fill will continue to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, it.
In the past, the Company has engaged the services of external irrespective of age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, search consultancies and it is anticipated, in the ordinary course, colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
that it would continue to do so in the future.
Were it not to do so, open advertising would be used as an alternative.
Prospective Board effectiveness: The Board normally undertakes an annual appointees are interviewed by the members of the Committee and effectiveness review.
In accordance with the Code, every three once the Committee has made a final decision on a years, it uses the services of an external facilitator to facilitate its recommendation to the Board, that recommendation is reported to effectiveness review.
This years review of the effectiveness of the the Board and the Board makes the decision as to whether to Board, its Committees and of me as Chairman has been conducted appoint the recommended individual.
The Committee reports the with the assistance of Russell Reynolds Associates.
Details of that outcome of its meetings to the Board.
review can be found at page 33. director tenure: Andrew Carr-Locke is the longest serving of the stephen alexander Chairman of the Nomination Committee independent Non-executive Directors.
In August 2016 he will have 18 May 2016 served seven years on the Board.
None of the other Non-executive Directors, or the Chairman, who was independent on appointment, has yet served six years in office.
director commitments: The Committee evaluates the commitments of individual Directors.
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company that Executive Directors take up opportunities to act as non-executive directors in other appropriate companies.
Unless the Board approves otherwise, Executive Directors may serve in a non-executive capacity on the board of one other company.
Non-executive Directors may serve as directors, executive or otherwise, on the boards of other companies or appropriate organisations.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment require them to seek prior approval from the Board before accepting any additional commitment that might affect the time that they are able to devote to their role as a Non-executive Director of the Company.
The Board has the opportunity to satisfy itself that Non-executive Directors other commitments allow them to devote adequate time to their commitments to the Company.
The Board approved all new appointments of Directors during the year and is satisfied that all Directors continue to have sufficient time to devote themselves properly to their duties for the Company.
Main activities during the Year: The Committee has not been required during the year to assist the Board with the recruitment of a Director.
During the year the Committees main focus was on Board succession planning.
In that regard, the Committee concentrated on building the internal pipeline of suitable candidates for succession to Board roles.
It retained the services of an external consultant to evaluate potential internal candidates, including assessment of training and development needs, culminating in the preparation of Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 39 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Management Board report of the corporate responsibility committee The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Groups I am pleased to present the report executive team.
Details of the members of the Management Board of the Corporate Responsibility can be found at pages 28 to 30.
The Management Board is Committee to shareholders.
responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Groups Full details of our corporate strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business responsibility programme can and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the be found at pages 22 to 27.
The day-to-day operations of the Groups business, its performance committee oversees the Groups against forecasts and budgets and profitability.
The Management corporate responsibility programme Board normally meets weekly.
and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental issues information included in the directors report are assessed and prioritised including reviewing the Companys Certain information fulfilling the requirements of the Corporate corporate responsibility pledges.
In addition to me as Chairman, Governance Report can be found in the Directors Report at pages the Committee comprises Richard Macdonald, Mark Allen, Tom 61 to 63 under the headings Substantial shareholdings, Rights and Atherton, Robin Miller, Robert Willock, Adam Braithwaite and obligations attaching to shares, Articles of association and Simon Hewitt Group Technical Director.
Purchase of own shares and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance Report by reference.
During the year the Committee has addressed the challenge of adapting the Groups approach to corporate responsibility in light of By order of the Board the completion of the sale of our Dairies business.
We have reviewed our historical corporate responsibility pledges which have evolved robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel into simpler more streamlined pledges which create value for the 18 May 2016 Group.
As we have done so we have maintained focus on the key areas of, amongst others, energy and climate change, water use, waste, safety and wellbeing, employee engagement, innovation and healthier choices for consumers of our products.
More detail on our achievements and progress in those areas and the broader Corporate Responsibility arena is set out at pages 22 to 27 of this Annual Report, however I wanted to highlight some of our achievements in the year: We cut CO emissions by 12.9% year-on-year 2 We commissioned a new waste water treatment plant at Davidstow recovering 1.7 million litres of water daily for re-use We achieved our target of zero operational waste to landfill We have reduced our Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate from 0.4 to 0.3 We received a Gold Award at the GroceryAid Achievement Awards for our support of the food industry charity Our lower fat and added value product variants achieved retail sales of over 80 million Our one calorie cooking spray Frylight achieved year-on-year sales growth of 19% We opened our 4 million innovation centre at Harper Adams University The Committee recognises that our corporate responsibility strategy needs to evolve continually to meet the changing demands of our customers, employees and the consumers of the great products we make.
The Committee will ensure that our corporate responsibility programme continues to evolve to meet the changing shape of our business.
To that end I am pleased that by reorganising our pledges into four key areas of focus: Environment, Workplace, Community and Marketplace, each of which is the responsibility of a senior manager, we will deliver real traction in the business.
Effective corporate responsibility is in the interests of all Dairy Crests stakeholders, I believe that our approach will continue to spark creative, innovative ideas which will connect with consumers in a very real way, so helping to deliver increasing success in the future.
sue farr Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 18 May 2016 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
