CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In accordance with the Listing Rules of TheChairman is also responsible for the UK Listing Authority, the Company theinduction of new directors and HOW confirms that throughout the period theircontinuing development, board GOVERNANCE ended 3 September 2016 and at the evaluations and succession planning.
date of this annual report, it was The Chairman holds regular meetings SUPPORTS compliant with all the relevant provisions with the non-executive directors without STRATEGY as set out in the April 2016 UK Corporate the executive directors being present Governance Code the Code, copies and has regular contact with all The board recognises the importance of which can be downloaded from the boardmembers.
of a robust corporate governance Financial Reporting Council website framework to support the delivery www.
Following two terms of office, Nigel ofthe strategic objectives they have Northridge stepped down from defined.
To this end, the board have Leadership theboard on 7 April 2016 and agreed an overarching framework for The board wassucceeded by Sir Ian Cheshire internal control, which supports the The board of Debenhams is collectively asnon-executive Chairman on delivery of these strategic objectives.
responsible for the long-term success 7April2016.
Sir Ian also succeeded The board: ofthe Company by directing and NigelNorthridge as chairman supervising the affairs of the Company oftheNomination Committee.
Selects its membership through and is accountable to its shareholders a comprehensive and considered forthe Companys strategic aims, The Chief Executive Officer process, aligned with Company riskmanagement and performance.
The Chief Executive Officer is strategy see sections on the Noindividual or small group of responsible forthe management Nomination Committee and individuals dominates the boards oftheGroups business and for Remuneration for more details decision-making process.
implementing the Groups strategic on our approach aims.
He also chairs theExecutive Strong leadership and strong corporate Committee and ensures that it achieves Sets the cultural stance for the governance are integral parts of our the delegated objectivesin accordance organisation with management corporate culture and the board leads by with the Companys business policies.
This sets the tone for the entire The roles and responsibilities of the policies and procedures designed organisation and is evidenced in the members of the Executive Committee to promote both legal compliance strategy in action, the risk review and the are detailed in the table on the next and appropriate ethical standards governance sections of this report.
The Chief Executive Officer in all their business interactions, alsoleads anannual strategy event including the delivery of Biographical details of the board tofocus on theGroups overall strategicobjectives ofdirectors are on pages 42 to 43. performance and the development Asat26October 2016 the board has ofthe business strategy.
Agrees the risk management eleven members: theChairman, six process which it considers to independent non-executive directors, Michael Sharp stepped down from the bea fundamental part of an one non-independent non-executive board on 24 June 2016.
For the period effective governance director and threeexecutive directors.
between Michael stepping down and programme see the Risk Review Following theAnnual General Meeting Sergio Bucher joining the board on and Principal Risks sections for inJanuary 2017, the boardwill consist 17October 2016, Matt Smith and more details on our approach ofthe Chairman, threeexecutive Suzanne Harlow shared the Chief and how this links to strategy directors and six independent .
Maintains oversight across non-executive directors.
thedelivery of strategic and The Chief Financial Officer operational objectives through The Chairman The Chief Financial Officer is responsible independent reports from the The Chairman is responsible for the for the financial reporting and Audit Committee see the section effective leadership, operation and management of the Group.
In addition on the Audit Committee for more governance of the board and its to the finance, audit, tax and treasury details on our approach and committees.
He ensures that all directors teams, the role is also responsible for reports made by management contribute effectively in the development property, space planning, legal and and implementation of the Companys secretariat and investor relations.
Actively monitors managements strategy whilst ensuring that the nature execution of approved strategic and extent of the significant risks the Matt Smith has been Debenhams Chief plans against established Company is willing to embrace in Financial Officer since January 2015. budgets, and their alignment theimplementation of its strategy tostrategic objectives aredetermined and challenged.
36 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Board Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Group Trading Senior Independent Non-independent Officer Officer Director independent non-executive non-executive director directors directors Sir Ian Cheshire Sergio Bucher Matt Smith Suzanne Harlow Terry Duddy from Terry Duddy Dennis Millard appointed to the appointed to 14 January 2016 board on 14 January theboard on 2016 and became 17October 2016 Chairman on 7 April 2016 1 Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Dennis Millard Peter Fitzgerald resigned from the resigned from 30 August 2015 to board on 7 April 2016 the board on 14 January 2016 24 June 2016 Stephen Ingham Martina King Mark Rolfe Lisa Myers appointed to theboard on 6September 2016 1 As a result of Dennis Millards length of tenure, he was no longer considered to be independent and therefore Terry Duddy was appointed as senior independent director with effect from 14 January 2016.
1 Executive Committee Sergio Bucher Chief Executive Officer Matt Suzanne Ross Richard David Peter Nikki Smith Harlow Clemmow Cristofoli Smith Swann Zamblera Chief Financial Group Trading Retail Director, Marketing International Operations HR Officer Director UK & ROI Director Director Director Director Financial Design, buying, UK and ROI store Product Franchises, Systems, imports HR, pay reporting and merchandising, and online sales marketing, Magasin du Nord and exports, andreward, management, supply chain, operations advertising, PR, and responsibility distribution learningand tax, treasury, sourcing and visual and creative, for growth of the andlogistics development, internal audit, external business customer strategy international recruitment, property, space and insight and business in all pensions and planning, legal Magenta Print channels and facilities and and secretariat markets Chair of and investor Debenhams relations Foundation 1 The composition of the Executive Committee is shown as at the date of this document.
For the period between Michael Sharp stepping down from the board and Sergio Bucher joining the board, Matt Smith and Suzanne Harlow shared the Chief Executive responsibilities.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Group Trading Director Officer will be dealt with by the senior backgrounds and provide constructive The Group Trading Director leads the independent director, who also serves as challenge within the boardroom.
They are buying and merchandising activities and an intermediary for the other directors as well informed aboutthe Company and is responsible for the development of the necessary and acts as a sounding board have a strongcommand of the issues Debenhams brand and product strategy for the Chairman.
In addition, the role relevanttothe business.
and the external business initiatives with hasresponsibility for leading the annual the overriding objective to deliver a appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
As at 3 September 2016, the noncompelling customer proposition.
The executive directors, other than Dennis role is also responsible for the sourcing As a result of Dennis Millards length of Millard, were considered by the board and supply chain functions.
tenure as disclosed in the report and tobe independent and free from any accounts last year, he was no longer relationship or circumstances that could Suzanne Harlow has been Group considered to be independent.
Terry affect their independent judgement.
Duddy has been senior independent director since January 2016 following We welcomed Lisa Myers to the The table below details the length of hisappointment as an independent boardasnon-executive director service of our Chairman and each of non-executive director in April 2015.
our non-executive directors: is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The independence of non-executive The Senior Independent Director directors who have served more than Any concerns that shareholders may have Non-executive directors sixyears is subject to rigorous review.
which are not appropriate for discussion As detailed in their biographies on pages through the normal channels of Chairman, 42 to 43 our non-executive directors have Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial a diverse range of skills, experience and Length of service as a non-executive Director Date of appointment directorat 3 September 2016 Sir Ian Cheshire Chairman 14 January 2016 8 months Terry Duddy 10 April 2015 1 year 4 months Peter Fitzgerald 4 October 2012 3 years 11 months Stephen Ingham 8 January 2013 3 years 8 months Martina King 1 August 2009 7 years 1 month Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 10 years 4 months Lisa Myers 6 September 2016 N A Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 5 years 11 months Nigel Northridge 1 January 2010 resigned 7 April 2016 6 years 3 months service on date of leaving the Company The Company Secretary The Company Secretary acts as secretary reviewed September 2016.
Debenhams The Company Secretary plays a leading to the board and each of its committees.
believes that diversity, in all its role in the good governance of the The appointment or removal of the aspects, isimportant in order for a Company by supporting the Chairman Company Secretary is a matter for the boardto operative effectively.
The and helping the board and its committees board as a whole.
Paul Eardley has mainobjectives of the policy are to to function efficiently.
Together with the beenCompany Secretary since ensure thatthe board is well balanced Chairman, the Company Secretary keeps October2007.
and appropriate for the needs of under review the governance processes thebusiness and that the board adopted by the Company to ensure that Board diversity comprises directors who are sufficiently they remain fit for purpose and considers The Companys diversity policy was experienced and independent in any improvements that could strengthen adopted by the board in FY2014 character and judgement.
Regarding the governance of the Company.
It is the theabove, the Company will seek to directors have access to the services of responsibility of the Nomination maintain a composition of at least 33% the Company Secretary and may take Committee to implement and monitor ofwomen on the board and seek to independent professional advice at the objectives set out in the policy achieve a balanced representation of theCompanys expense in conducting andtoreview the policy annually last men and women at all levels throughout their duties.
38 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance the Group.
The Nomination Committee Induction and ongoing development Directors conflicts of interest is mindful of the diversity policy when On appointment, a director is provided The Nomination Committee annually considering board appointments.
The with an induction programme which is reviews and considers the interests and charts below demonstrate the gender tailored to his or her experience of listed other external appointments held by split atboard level, within theExecutive company responsibilities and based on themembers of the board.
All conflicts Committee, senior management and his or her knowledge of the retail sector.
declared were approved at its meeting forthe workforce asawhole.
The induction includes the provision of inSeptember 2016.
The directors have relevant current and historical information acontinuing duty to inform the board of Time commitment about the Company together with any potential conflicts immediately so that All directors are aware of the need to applicable business policies.
Meetings such conflicts may be considered and, if allocate sufficient time to the Company are arranged with advisors and visits authorised, included within the register inorder to discharge their responsibilities tooperations around the Group are ofconflicts.
We recognise that the effectively.
The board, with the support arranged.
One to one meetings are non-executive directors have other ofthe Nomination Committee, monitors heldwith members of the Executive business interests outside of the the extent of their external interests and Committee, other senior executives Company and that other directorships any conflicts on an ongoing basis.
The inthebusiness and external advisors as bring significant benefits to the board.
letters of appointment for non-executive appropriate.
The Company Secretary Allexisting directorships are detailed directors set out the time commitment assists in the induction of new directors within the director biographies on pages expected for them to perform their and their ongoing development as 42 to 43.
The time required by required and also undertakes a review arerequired to obtain the approval of directors will fluctuate depending on the with new directors following induction theChairman before accepting any demands of the business and any other toconsider any initiatives which would further appointments.
events, but the expected number of days improve the induction process.
required foreach non-executive director A register of related parties is maintained is ten days per annum.
and updated by the Company Secretary in order that any related party transactions are identified and the necessary disclosures aremade.
Board gender diversity Senior manager gender diversity Indemnification of directors Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of the directors who held office during the year.
The Company alsoprovides directors and officers liability insurance for its directors andother officers.
Male 78% Male 52% Board meetings Female 22% Female 48% The board held seven meetings during FY2016 which were fully attended by allthe board members, save for the February meeting which Martina King Executive Committee gender diversity All employees gender diversity senther apologies to.
The meeting was convened at relatively short notice and she had a prior commitment.
In addition to thedirectors, the board meetings wereattended by members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary.
Details of the principal items discussed at each meeting are shown inthe table on the next page.
The presentation of timely, high quality Male 75% Male 24% information to the board and its Female 25% Female 76% committees is essential to ensure that there is thorough prior consideration Gender split in each of these charts is at financial year end ofthe issues and informed debate and Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board activity throughout the year September 2015 October 2015 January 2016 February 2016 April 2016 June 2016 September 2016 Approved the Approved full International Presentation of Approved first Approved the Approval of the budget year results, update thestrategic plan half results and June trading budget report and Presentation on resolved to pay statement accounts and the Market Abuse interim dividend recommended Regulation thefinaldividend Womenswear Approved the Met with Review of Presentation on Reviewed budget International autumn winter corporaterisk shareholders schedule of mobile update plan map attheAnnual matters reserved opportunities B&M roadmap GeneralMeeting for the board.
and areview of update people andtalent Global growth Reviewed Presentation on Presentation on plan theannual supply chain theautum winter performance launch and the evaluation of the brand strategy board and its committees Presentation on Presentation on the Modern principal risks Slavery Act Presentations on Review of product and diversity policy brand strategy and the Christmas campaign challenge at all meetings.
All information ofthe Executive Committee.
Presentations which are reviewed annually of each is published several days in advance via a are also requested by the board on an ad committee can be found on our website secure web portal in order that directors hoc basis from the trading divisions and at http: debenhamsplc.
In addition, can fully prepare for the meeting.
If other business areas, including investor there is a Sustainability Committee, which directors are not able to attend meetings relations, treasury, taxation, health and is a committee of the board, chaired by due to conflicts in their schedule, they safety and human resources.
review the papers due for consideration the board receives regular updates on the and relay any comments to the Chairman, key Group risks and ensures that the risk The members, together with the role and in advance of the meeting where management framework and profile activities of each board committee, can possible, which are then passed on to the supports the business strategy.
In be found at: other directors.
The Company Secretary accordance with the Code, the formal ensures relevant information flows within schedule of matters reserved for the Audit Committee Pages 46 to 49 the board, its committees and to senior board is reviewed annually.
Nomination Committee Pages 44 and 45 management and records all matters Remuneration Committee Pages 50 to 67 discussed within the minutes of the Board committees meeting.
Each board meeting reviews The board committees are the Audit, Performance evaluation presentations from the executive Remuneration and Nomination In line with best practice, we conduct directors and from the other members Committees.
The terms of reference external evaluations of the board, its Investor relations calendar October 2015 November 2015 January 2016 February 2016 March 2016 April 2016 May 2016 June 2016 Full year results US shareholder roadshow Trading update European investor meetings US investor meetings First half results European investor meetings Trading update UK shareholder roadshow Investor conference Annual General Meeting Canadian investor meetings UK shareholder roadshow US investor meetings Investor meetings UK investor meetings UK investor meetings 40 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance committees and each individual director presentation is made to shareholders and at least once every three years.
Analysts research is circulated January 2016 AGM highlights external evaluation was carried out in tothe board.
A programme ofmeetings FY2014, the directors will conduct an and conference calls is also organised Full director attendance external evaluation of the board, its atappropriate times during theyear Between 816,635,051 and committees and each individual director atwhich the Chief Executive Officer 837,962,764 votes were cast for in FY2017.
During FY2016, the Chairman andChief Financial Officer comment on each resolution carried out an internal evaluation.
Company performance and respond to All directors retired and were Thisyears internal evaluation confirmed any issuesraised by investors.
In addition, elected re-elected to the board, that all of the directors, the board and Debenhams arranges visits to its stores receiving on average 99.35% of itscommittees continue to perform for analysts and shareholders and holds votes cast in favour effectively.
The outcome was that future regular capital markets days in order to The resolution to approve the agendas and presentations will be more explain aspects of business performance directors remuneration report strategic and less operational, and and strategy.
for the period ended 29 August timekeeping will be more disciplined.
The 2015 was passed with 98.82% of succession and the change management Shareholders by geography votes cast in favour had been well handled by the Chairman.
The Chairman isconstantly evaluating theperformance and effectiveness of theboard and its committees.
The performance review ofthe Chairman was conducted by theSenior Independent Director who consulted with all members of the board.
Share capital and control Information which the directors are UK 54% required to disclose pursuant to section USA 23% 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can EU 11% befound on pages 68 to 70 of the Middle East 8% directors report.
Rest of World 4% Shareholder engagement The board is responsible for ensuring that A geographical analysis of shareholders the Company maintains a satisfactory isshown in the chart above.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent The major shareholders of the Company Director are always available to major are listed on page 69 of the directors shareholders.
Formal trading updates are report.
given to the market on four occasions during the year.
Following each of these The key elements of the Groups investor announcements, conference calls are relations calendar in FY2016 are shown in held with shareholders and analysts and, the table below.
after the full year and interim results, a Investor relations calendar October 2015 November 2015 January 2016 February 2016 March 2016 April 2016 May 2016 June 2016 Full year results US shareholder roadshow Trading update European investor meetings US investor meetings First half results European investor meetings Trading update UK shareholder roadshow Investor conference Annual General Meeting Canadian investor meetings UK shareholder roadshow US investor meetings Investor meetings UK investor meetings UK investor meetings Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41
