CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder, On behalf of the Audit Committee theCommittee, I am pleased to present its report for the period ended 3September 2016.
The report sets out the remit of the Committee, its areas of focus during the year and the Companys relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the Debenhams plc 2016 annual report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee therefore supports the board in making its formal statement on page 71.
The Committee also addressed the requirements of the new viability statement and the board has accepted the Committees recommendations ontheform of that statement andtheassessment period.
T he Audit Committee has I would like to take this opportunity to continued to implement thank Dennis Millard for his long-term and valued contribution as a member ofthe Committee.
He stepped down corporate governance best from the Committee on 14 January 2016. practice, including thenew MARK ROLFE long-term viability statement, CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE and is satisfied that risks in the business areappropriately managed andthat internal controls areeffective.
46 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Membership of the Audit Committee Assessing the long-term viability The individuals who served on the Committee during the year under review are set of the Company over a three-year out below: period taking into account its current position and principal risks Attendance Providing advice to the board on Date appointed at meetings whether the Companys annual Member Committee member during the year report, taken as a whole, is fair, 1 October 2010 appointed balanced and understandable Mark Rolfe Committee chairman andprovides the information Committee chairman 2September 2012 4 4 necessary for shareholders to Terry Duddy 10 April 2015 3 4 assessthe Companys performance, business model and strategy Peter Fitzgerald 18 October 2012 4 4 Martina King 1 August 2009 4 4 Activities of the Committee 1 Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 0 1 duringthe year Financial reporting 1 The Committee reviewed the Dennis Millard stepped down from the Committee on 14 January 2016. annual and interim financial All of the members of the Committee in relation to the competitive tendering statements during the year.
It are independent non-executive of the audit and monitoring of the considered significant accounting directors.
Mark Rolfe is considered by rotation of the audit partner.
policies, financial reporting issues the board tohave recent and relevant and judgements together with the financial experience.
In accordance with the terms of findings as set out in the reports reference, the Committees from the external auditors.
In addition to the members of the responsibilities include, but are not The Committee considered the Committee, the Chairman, the Chief limited to, the following matters: clarity and completeness of the Financial Officer, the director of internal disclosures within the financial audit and risk management and senior Monitoring the integrity of financial reports reviewed.
representatives of the Companys statements including any related external auditors, PwC, attend and information presented with the Internal audit receive papers for each meeting.
The financial statements and any formal The Committee received updates Company Secretary is secretary to the announcements relating to the from the director of internal audit Committee assisted by the deputy Companys financial performance andrisk management at each of its company secretary.
After each meeting, Reviewing any changes in meetings during the year covering, the chairman reports to the board on the accounting principles and to amongst other matters, updates on matters discussed, on recommendations consider the appropriateness the Groups significant risks and and on actions to be taken.
ofaccounting policies adopted internal financial controls, progress bythe Company against the approved audit plan, the The Committee met with the Reviewing the internal audit key findings from reviews undertaken Companys external auditor twice programme and ensuring that and managements implementation during the year without management theinternal audit function is of its recommendations.
being present and once with each of properly resourced the Chief Financial Officer and the Agreeing with the external auditors Governance director of internal audit and risk thenature and scope of the audit The Committee assessed the management in attendance without andreviewing the output effectiveness of the external other management being present.
Reviewing and monitoring audit process via an internal theeffectiveness of the risk questionnaire completed by Responsibilities of the Committee management and internal control theCommittee, the Company The role and responsibilities of the systems within the business Secretary, the director of Committee are set out in its terms of Considering the appointment financeand support services, the reference which are reviewed annually oftheexternal auditors and director of internal audit and risk bythe Committee taking into account theirindependence and management and the head of relevant legislation and recommended  to finance accounting and control.
The terms of reference theboard inrelation to their The questionnaire circulated of the Committee are available on appointment, remuneration focused on the robustness of the the Companys website: http: andterms of engagement audit, the quality of delivery and debenhamsplc.
This year, the Reviewing the Companys plans thequality of people and service.
Committee updated its terms of for the prevention and detection The Committee considered the reference to describe its responsibilities of fraud, bribery and corruption Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT results ofthe review at its meeting External audit in October2016 and concluded that The scope of the audit for FY2016 the audit process is robust and that was agreed together with the fees the audit team demonstrate good and terms of engagement.
Details judgement and integrity of the amounts paid to the external The compliance committee, chaired auditors for the audit services for by Matt Smith, Chief Financial 2016 are given on page 95 in note 6 Officer, supported the Committee to the financial statements.
inassessing whether the Companys annual report, taken as a whole, is Significant issues in relation fair, balanced and understandable tothefinancial statements and complies with all legal and The significant areas of focus regulatory requirements considered by the Committee in The Risk Committee, which was relation to the FY2016 accounts formed in December 2015 and is continue to be as disclosed in FY2015.
chaired by the director of internal audit and risk management, The significant issues considered supported the Audit Committee in inrelation to the Groups financial the identification andassessment statements for the period ended oftheGroups significant risks 3September 2016 are set out in The members of the Committee thetable below together with and senior management within asummary of the actions taken.
thebusiness were provided with Inaddition, the Committee and training bysenior members of the theexternal auditors have discussed accounting team.
During the year, the other areas of focus of the audit training was provided on supplier asset out in the independent income and on IFRS 16, Leases.
auditors report on pages 72 to 78.
Previously, training has covered share-based payments, revenue Matter considered Actions recognition andretirement Revenue recognition benefitcosts As with most companies there continues The Committee has reviewed revenue The Committee also received a tobe a risk that, in order to achieve recognition practice and the underlying presentation on the process and theplanned results, revenue may be assumptions and estimates.
In addition, stresstesting undertaken in relation recognised in contravention of the theinternal audit function has reported to the tothe viability statement included Groupspolicy for revenue recognition.
Committee on the controls and processes inthis report.
The Committee also routinely monitors the viewsofthe external auditors Competition and Markets Authority onrevenue recognition issues.
The Committee considered the Inventory valuation regulations contained within theCompetition and Markets The Company continues to use the retail During FY2016, the Committee received method in respect of valuation of inventory reports from both the internal and external Authority Audit Order to ensure in the UK and Ireland which is reliant on auditors setting out inventory risk metrics and that the Company carries out anumber of judgemental components, findings from the examination of controls in specific functions in relation to details of which are set out in note 5 to these areas.
These reports indicated that auditservices.
thefinancial statements on page 94. inventory was valued satisfactorily.
48 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance External auditors independence The Companys policy identifies three External auditor appointment In order to ensure that an appropriate categories of accounting services.
The PwC has served as the Companys relationship is maintained with the first category is audit-related services auditors since flotation in 2006.
John external auditors, a policy on auditor which the auditors are permitted to Ellishas been the audit partner since independence has been established and provide, such as interim and full year 1September 2013. is reviewed annually.
The second category is matters such as that auditors and their prohibited services which the auditors As stated in our FY2015 Annual Report staff must have no family, financial, are not permitted to provide.
and Accounts the Committee employment, investment orbusiness Prohibited services are those which considers that based on current relationship with the Company, the might result in the external auditors guidance and the timeline, mandatory employment by the Company of former auditing their own work, or making auditor rotation would be required audit employees, the rotation of audit management decisions for the after the August 2020 year end.
partners and thecontrols around the Company, and those where some However, given that the current audit provision ofnon-audit services.
The mutuality of interest is created or partner must rotate off the Companys Committeeupdated its external auditor where the external auditors are put in account in 2018, the Committee has independence policy in response tothe the role of advocate for the Company.
agreed that, subject to the rules Financial Reporting Councils Ethical The prohibited services included in evolving further, 2018 would be the Standard to definemore specifically the Companys policy are now logical time for PwC to rotate off the services whichthe Companys auditors itemised in more detail and the list account and for the audit to be put maynever provide.
includes all the services set out on the out to tender.
The third category As regards the risk of the external is potential services which the The Committee is satisfied that PwC auditors withdrawal from the market, auditors may, in certain circumstances, remains independent and is best placed theCompany considers that there provide subject to compliance with to conduct the Companys audit for aresufficient other auditors in the the independence policy.
The Committee therefore marketplace should this situation arise.
services include services where the recommends that PwC be re-appointed auditors are acting as the Companys as the Companys auditors.
The objective of the Audit Committees reporting accountant.
policy in relation to the provision of Competition and Markets Authority non-audit services by the auditors is to 0.1 million was paid by the Company The Committee confirms that ensure that the provision of such services to PwC for non-audit services which theCompany complied with the does not impair the external auditors represents 32.7% of the total audit Competition and Markets Authority independence or objectivity.
All fees for feepaid to PwC.
Thenon-audit Audit Order for the period ending non-audit work require pre-authorisation services included feesfor PwCs 3September 2016. by the Chief Financial Officer, or the rolein the Irish examinership as the Company Secretary, orby the Audit Independent Expert which is a role Committee in circumstances where the typically performed by the auditors.
fees are above an agreed threshold.
An MARK ROLFE independent report is produced each The audit fees paid by the pension CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE quarter detailing all non-audit work, its schemes were 37,500. cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information is reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting by the Company Secretary.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 49
