Letter from the Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this years Audit Committee Report.
During the year we have focused on the key issues in relation to the Groups financial reporting, including key accounting judgements and the ongoing quality of related disclosures.
We have also covered other important areas, including the changes made to the Groups risk management processes, the assessment of material control processes and the development of the viability statement and related financial stress testing in order to meet the requirements of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee Membership Julian Heslop It has also been a year of change for the Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee the Committee.
We have welcomed Tony Rice to the Committee and look forward to the fresh perspective he will bring given his strong FTSE background and diverse experience.
We were sorry to Internal Audit and Risk Assurance Annual Report 2016 lose Chris Richards from the Committee and The Committee has overseen the continued Finally, we specifically reviewed, at the thank him for his valuable contribution over establishment of the internal audit function request of the Board, whether the 2016 the past six years.
under the leadership of the Head of Internal Annual Report was fair, balanced and Audit and Risk Assurance, John Wilson, understandable and concluded that it was.
External Auditor following his appointment in 2015.
Audit The basis supporting our conclusion is set Following the tender for the external planning and risk management have both out on page 75. audit and the appointment of been enhanced, and greater rigour has  LLP PwC as been introduced to the methodology used reported last year, the Committee has Julian Heslop in both areas.
Carefully directed use of overseen a smooth transition from the former Audit Committee Chairman external expertise is in place to ensure that auditor to PwC, ensuring the continued 5 September 2016 appropriate skills are deployed in audits of effectiveness of the external audit.
Good progress is being respect, the Committee has paid particular made in developing the internal control focus to reviewing and approving the plan framework to strengthen controls around for the external audit, considering the reports each of our principal risks.
Further details from the external auditor on accounting and of the Groups risk management and control matters, and engaging with them on internal control processes are provided significant judgements.
72 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 72 05 09 2016 17:26:56 Governance Audit Committee Report The Purpose and Function of the Audit Committee Other members of the Board normally attend each meeting together the Committee with the Lead Audit Partner and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Purpose Assurance.
The Committees key aim is to review and report to the Board on The Committee has discussions at least twice a year with the financial reporting, internal financial control effectiveness and to oversee external auditor without management being present, including the the relationship with the external auditor.
The main responsibilities are meeting which reviews and endorses the annual results.
summarised on page 67 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Neither the Company nor its Directors have any relationships that Membership, Meetings and Attendance impair the external auditors independence.
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, are detailed on page 66 of the Corporate Role and Responsibilities Governance Report.
Chris Richards resigned in April 2016 and the The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Committee is pleased to welcome Tony Rice as its most recent written terms of reference which are available on the Company website member.
Tony will, subject to the appointment of an additional at www.
The Board reviewed the Committees terms of Non-Executive Director, resign from the Committee on his election as a reference at the December meeting and no changes were made.
Director and his subsequent appointment as Chairman of the Company Major Activities of the Committee during the Year at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee met four times since the last Annual Report was The Board considers that all members of the Committee are issued.
The meetings are timed to coincide with the financial independent.
Julian Heslop has recent and relevant financial experience reporting timetable of the Company.
The Committee Chairman and as a result of his financial background and qualification.
Ishbel the Company Secretary have developed an annual programme of Macpherson and Tony Rice provide different but relevant skills and business.
This allows the Committee to ensure that standing items experience which support the Committee in meeting its objectives.
The of business are appropriately considered alongside any exceptional biographies of all Committee members are detailed on pages 62 and 63. matters that may arise during the course of the year.
The Company Secretary attends each meeting and acts as its The table below provides an overview of the main matters discussed secretary assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all Committee at the meetings: papers are provided prior to each meeting in a timely manner and providing advice to the Committee on all governance related matters.
Meeting Date Main Activities 3 December 2015 Consideration of the proposed changes on risk management and internal controls Review and approval of the internal audit plan Review and approval of  LLP PwC handover and Half-Yearly review plan Review of the Committees terms of reference Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and sanctions update Review of global tax management and compliance support Review of non-audit fees including actual and projected spend 17 February 2016 Review of the Groups Half-Yearly report Consideration of the Half-Year Review Memorandum prepared by the external auditor Half year review of internal financial controls Review of the internal audit report Review of the dividend policy Review of non-audit fees including actual and projected spend Review of reverse stress testing to support the viability statement Meeting with the external auditor without management present 5 May 2016 Review and approval of the external audit strategy including timetable, scope and fees Discussion in relation to the Companys expectations of the external auditor and audit process Review of Intangible R&D Asset Capitalisation Policy Review of the internal audit work plan to the end of the 2016 financial year Review of non-audit fees including actual and projected spend Consideration of specific stress testing scenarios and relevant time period for the viability statement Discussion of the programme of business for the 2017 financial year 30 August 2016 Review of fair value accounting of acquisitions during the year Review of the Groups preliminary statement and draft Annual Report including the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 June 2016 and recommend the final dividend Consideration of the Audit Memorandum prepared by the external auditor, including: review of accounting treatment of non-underlying items assessment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill commentary on the general control environment across the Group Review and approval of the going concern and viability statements Review of the internal audit report Full year review of internal financial controls Review of the external audit effectiveness, external auditors independence and level of non-audit fees Meeting with the external auditor without management present Fair, balanced and understandable recommendation of the Annual Report Stock Code: DPH 73 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 73 05 09 2016 17:26:56 Audit Committee Report continued All significant matters under consideration were supported by The Committee gave particular attention to significant matters relevant justification papers and fully discussed in order to ensure where judgement was involved which were complex in nature or that due and appropriate consideration was given before any where adjusted numbers were provided to enhance investors decision was approved.
Further detail in relation to a number understanding of the underlying performance.
These matters were of the matters is provided below: well supported by briefing papers provided by management and were specifically reviewed and agreed by the external auditor, PwC, Financial Judgements in their reports to the Committee and in related discussions.
The Committee reviewed both the half-yearly and the annual financial statements.
This process included an analysis by The key matters reviewed are shown in the table below: management of key judgements made in determining the results over matters such as the carrying value of intangible assets.
The Committee reviewed this in detail and endorsed managements judgements.
Significant risk considered by the Committee in relation Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to to the financial statements address the issues Review of the carrying value of acquired intangible assets and The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and goodwill of 345.3 million, which represents 124.8% of Group net testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
It endorsed managements assessment that an impairment to acquired intangible assets of 3.9 million was required.
Valuation of the intangible assets acquired during business The Committee reviewed the calculations and assumptions provided combinations in the year, which total 179.4 million.
by management and third party experts which support the valuation of these acquired intangible assets and these valuations were assessed for completeness.
The Committee reviewed the useful economic lives of the identifiable intangible assets and the future growth rate assumptions applied in the valuations.
Significant judgements considered by the Committee in Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to relation to the financial statements address the issues Review of the corporate tax rate for the year of 14.0% 22.7% on The Committee discussed the key risks in respect of corporate underlying operations.
tax and reviewed that appropriate controls were in place to ensure that taxation calculations are not materially misstated.
Areas where significant judgements such as uncertain tax positions have been applied are reviewed and challenged and external audit work and conclusions are considered.
In order to assist investors with a better understanding of the The Committee reviewed the basis for calculating the underlying underlying performance of the business, management present within figures and its consistency with previous years figures.
It also the financial statements figures for underlying profit and earnings.
sought confirmation from the external auditor, PwC, that they were This is reconciled to the figures provided in the financial statements satisfied with the accuracy and consistency of these figures.
and excludes matters such as impairment and amortisation of The Committee also reviewed material one-off income and costs acquired intangible assets and related deferred consideration, within the underlying results, if any, and ensured these were clearly acquisition related restructuring costs, and the fair value uplift on disclosed within the financial statements and notes.
inventory acquired through business combinations.
74 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 74 05 09 2016 17:26:56 Governance Going Concern and Viability Statements Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee reviewed the Groups going concern and viability The Board retains overall responsibility for the management of the statements set out on page 70 of the Corporate Governance Groups risk management and internal control framework.
In considering the viability statement the Committee Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups paid particular attention to the time period to be used and the internal financial controls.
robustness of the stress testing scenarios.
The external auditor The Committee has also reviewed the changes made to the Groups reviewed managements assessment and discussed this review risk management and internal control processes in order to meet the with the Committee.
requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
These changes Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment of the include the: Annual Report identification of material internal controls and key monitoring At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether processes: the 2016 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for assessment of the effectiveness of these internal control shareholders to assess the Companys performance pages 38 processes by the SET: to 43, business model page 24 and strategy pages 13 to 15. introduction of a rolling programme of risk and control reviews by The Committee based its assessment on a review of the the Board: and processes and controls put in place by management.
This implementation of stress testing of the Groups cash flow included the relevant senior management providing information forecasts to assess the impact of a number of downside risk on their own business units and their confirmation that it was scenarios in order to support the viability statement.
In addition, the final draft document was reviewed by all members of the Senior Executive Following an independent review, the Group has completed the Team SET who also concluded that it met the fair, balanced and implementation of the recommendations made by Deloitte LLP understandable test.
Deloitte to strengthen the risk management and internal control processes.
The Committee reviewed the assessment of the Groups An integral part of the process was the Committees final internal financial controls at its meeting on 30 August 2016.
It review: other Board members and the external auditor were concluded that there was reasonable assurance that the controls invited to comment so that issues could be debated and a final operated effectively.
Further details in respect of the Groups risk management and The external auditor confirmed that in their opinion the Annual internal control processes are provided on pages 54 to 55 of the Report 2016 was fair, balanced and understandable, which can Strategic Report and the Boards statements on the effectiveness be found on pages 100 to 106. of these processes are provided on page 70 of the Corporate This assessment was carried out by the Committee on Governance Report.
30 August 2016, following which the Committee reported to Internal Audit the Board that it was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the The Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance provides objective Annual Report 2016 is fair, balanced and understandable.
assurance and advice on the management of the Groups risks and Review of Policies and Procedures its systems of internal control.
Internal Audit is supported by a During the year the Committee reviewed the following policies: co-sourcing arrangement with KPMG LLP KPMG to provide a flexible resource model and access to specialist expertise and Accounting Policies language skills in new geographies.
The Committee reviewed the Intangible R&D Asset Capitalisation policy and the annual review of the tax policy.
Internal Audit have developed a three year plan which seeks to provide balanced assurance coverage of the Groups material Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption financial, operational and compliance control processes.
The plan The Committee reviewed the revised third party due diligence was approved by the Committee in December 2015.
It sets out procedures and Code of Conduct.
The Company Secretary a rolling programme of core assurance activities together with a and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance ensure significant focus on the implementation of the Oracle ERP system.
that the Committee is updated on a regular basis in respect of the training and monitoring of the policies across the Group.
Internal Audit recommendations are communicated to relevant An online training solution Delta has been developed to business leaders and appropriate control improvements are agreed assist with the ongoing training requirements of the Group.
Audit reports are provided to the Audit Committee together with regular progress reports on managements Dividend implementation of control improvements.
The dividend policy was reviewed by the Committee and was recommended to the Board for approval.
Stock Code: DPH 75 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 75 05 09 2016 17:26:56 Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor External Audit Engagement Director Rotation Following a competitive tender in 2015, PwC were appointed as the In line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board, the Companys external auditor for the 2016 audit, replacing KPMG who Lead Audit Partner will be rotated every five years.
had been the Companys external auditor since its formation Non-Audit Assignments in 1997.
With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the external During the year the FRCS Audit Quality Review team reviewed auditor, the Company has a policy of ensuring that the provision of KMPGs audit of the Companys Financial Statements for the year such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
The Committee discussed the results of this Prior approval of the Committee is required before the external review.
auditor is appointed to carry out non-audit work and the rationale Audit Plan for doing so is provided to the Committee, who assess, the PwC agreed their audit plan with the Committee, which included qualification, expertise, independence and objectivity of the external their audit scope, key audit risk areas and materiality.
The auditor prior to granting approval.
As such, non-audit fee spend is a Committee discussed the audit plan with PwC and approved standing item on the agenda for every Committee meeting.
it, together with the fees proposed.
The Committee firmly believes that there are certain non-audit Independence, Effectiveness and Objectivity of the services where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the external Audit Process auditor.
In such cases safeguards are in place to ensure continued The Committee conducted a review of the external auditors external auditor independence, including the use of separate teams independence, effectiveness and objectivity based on: to undertake the non-audit work separately from the audit work.
During the year, the external auditor provided assurance in relation the Committees own assessment of the quality of the audit to the Oracle control framework.
The Committee did not consider plan, the rigour of the audit findings and conclusions, the extent that the performance of this non-audit work would affect or impair to which the Lead Audit Partner understands the business and the external auditors integrity.
This is consistent with the ethical constructively challenges management and the quality and clarity standard published by the Accounting Practices Board.
of the technical and governance advice provided: The results of this policy are that: the results of a questionnaire on external auditor effectiveness and efficiency further detail on which is provided below : i Deloitte undertake global tax compliance work: a report prepared by PwC setting out its processes to ensure ii KPMG support internal audit: and independence and its confirmation of compliance with them: and iii during the course of the year Deloitte, Ernst & Young LLP, the level of non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit and KPMG, Smith & Williamson LLP and Grant Thornton UK LLP half-yearly review fees paid to the external auditor, which were have provided advice on global mobility matters, related tax 3.8% 2015: 3.1% in relation to services rendered by KPMG.
advice, company reorganisation, acquisition valuation support and due diligence.
Responses to the questionnaire have been received from all finance directors across the Group who provided information and assistance A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is to the external auditor.
The questionnaire covered a number of provided in note 6 to the Groups financial statements.
This shows areas, including: that non-audit work carried out by the external auditor represented 3.8% 2015: 3.1% in relation to services rendered by KPMG of the quality of the audit team: annual audit fee and half-yearly review fee, and reflects the policy set out above.
knowledge and understanding of the Group: appropriateness of the areas of audit focus: Julian Heslop interaction with audit specialists: and Audit Committee Chairman 5 September 2016 timeliness and adequacy of communication by the external auditor.
The results of the questionnaire were reported to the Committee at the meeting on 30 August 2016.
Based on the review set out above, the Committee is satisfied with the external auditors independence, effectiveness and objectivity.
Re-Appointment of External Auditor At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a resolution to re-appoint PwC as the external auditor and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm as external auditor and the Company does not provide an indemnity to the external auditor.
76 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 76 05 09 2016 17:26:56
