Governance Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee the Committee.
The 2016 financial year has been a busy year for the Committee in light of recent changes to the Board and the Senior Executive Team SET : and the acquisitions completed since the last report which have brought in an increased talent pool.
There were five additional meetings during the year, which mainly dealt with the succession planning for the role of Chairman.
Ishbel Macpherson, the Senior Independent Director, led the comprehensive recruitment process which I am pleased to report resulted Michael Redmond in the appointment of my successor, Nomination Committee Chairman Tony Rice, subject to his election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has also continued with its focus on succession planning, leadership development and talent management.
Committee Membership and JCA Group JCA, was retained to assist Attendance in the recruitment and was provided The following report provides an overview of The membership of the Committee, together with a role description detailing the skills the work carried out during the year under with appointment dates and attendance and experience required for the position review.
at meetings during the year, is set out on of Chairman of the Board.
To assist Dechras stance in relation to diversity is pages 62 and 63, and 66 of the Corporate JCA with their understanding of the detailed in the Corporate Governance Governance Report.
Other attendees at the requirements of the role, they met with Report on page 68. meetings include the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial the Group HR Director and the Company Officer and members of the Committee Should you have any questions in relation to Secretary who acts as secretary to the during the previous financial year.
this report or the Committee, please feel free Committee.
Following a rigorous recruitment process, to contact me or the Company Secretary.
which was led by Ishbel Macpherson, The Chairman does not chair the Committee Tony Rice was appointed to the Board on meeting if it is dealing with the appointment Michael Redmond 5 May 2016 and, subject to his election at of his successor.
The Senior Independent Nomination Committee Chairman the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Director, Ishbel Macpherson, takes the chair 5 September 2016 he will be appointed as Chairman of when required.
Tony Rice has extensive board level experience across a range Role and Responsibilities of sectors.
Further details relating to his The main role and responsibilities of the background and experience can be found Committee are set out in the written terms on page 63. of reference, which are available on the Company website at www.
Recruitment of Chief Financial The Committees terms of reference are Officer and Non-Executive Director reviewed on an annual basis and during the Following the resignation of Chris 2016 financial year this took place at the Richards in April 2016, an independent January meeting.
An overview of the terms recruitment consultancy, Odgers of reference is detailed on page 67 of the Berndtson Odgers, has been Corporate Governance Report.
retained to assist in the recruitment of a Non-Executive Director.
At the Principal activities of the Committee commencement of the recruitment during the year included: process, a role description was defined Appointment of Chairman and agreed by the Committee detailing As reported in last years Nomination the skills and experience required for the Committee Report, the recruitment position of Non-Executive Director.
To process for my successor commenced assist Odgers with the understanding in the 2015 financial year.
An of the requirements of the role, they independent recruitment consultancy, Stock Code: DPH 77 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 77 05 09 2016 17:26:57 Nomination Committee Report continued met with the Chief Executive Officer, the Further details in relation to the Managing Director of DVP EU and the changes to the SET can be found in the Chairman.
A long list of candidates has Corporate Social Responsibility Report been identified for interview.
The succession planning review which was undertaken in the Anne-Francoise Nesmes resigned as 2015 financial year will be updated to Executive Director and Chief Financial reflect these changes.
Odgers were also retained to assist with the Leadership Needs of the Group recruitment of her replacement.
At the During this financial year, the SET worked commencement of this recruitment with an external partner to identify key Odgers met individually the Chief areas to optimise their effectiveness.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, In light of the recent acquisitions and Company Secretary, Group HR Director, changes to the SET membership, we will the Audit Committee Chairman and the continue to build on this work.
Following these meetings In addition, during the year a number of a brief was established and a short leadership development programmes list of candidates were interviewed by have been initiated within key areas of the Chief Executive Officer, Group HR the Group to ensure that the Company Director, the Chairman and the Audit has strong internal candidates for key Committee Chairman.
Further details on 17 August 2016, this has resulted can be found in the Corporate Social in the appointment of Richard Cotton.
It is anticipated that he will commence working with Dechra in January 2017.
The three acquisitions, further details of which can be found in the Strategic Recruitment of Company Secretary Report, have added significantly to the During the year, the Board approved the overall talent pool and a Group-wide appointment of a new General Counsel review of talent and succession is and Company Secretary, Suzana Cross, scheduled to take place during the 2017 who joined in November 2015.
This will be supported by has extensive experience as a General the new Human Capital Management Counsel and Company Secretary across HCM system.
The details relating to a range of organisations.
Further details the implementation of the HCM system of which are disclosed on page 63. can be found in the Corporate Social Non-Executive Directors and Senior Responsibility Report on page 48.
Executive Team SET Succession Appraisal Process and Planning Re-appointment of Directors There have been a number of changes Following an internal evaluation, further at Board level, as described above, details of which are provided on page and within the SET with the addition 69 of the Corporate Governance Report, of Suzana Cross and the retirement of the Committee has concluded that each Mike Annice, the Group Manufacturing of the Directors seeking re-election Director, who retired on 31 July 2016. continues to be an effective member of Odgers were appointed to assist the Board.
At the forthcoming Annual with the recruitment process for the General Meeting Tony Rice, who was latter role.
A field of candidates were appointed to the Board on 5 May 2016, identified for interview, which resulted will offer himself for election, and all in the successful recruitment of Greig of the remaining Directors will retire Rooney as Group Manufacturing and and offer themselves for re-election, Logistics Director.
Greig commenced excluding Michael Redmond.
employment on 4 July 2016, which permitted a successful handover with the outgoing post holder, Mike Michael Redmond Annice.
Dr Anthony Lucas, the Groups Nomination Committee Chairman Product Development Director, was also 5 September 2016 promoted to the SET.
78 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 78 05 09 2016 17:26:57
