Letter from the Chairman on Governance Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Dechras Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Managing Governance The Board recognises that excellence in corporate governance is essential in order to generate and protect value for our investors.
Our governance structure is designed to maintain effective control and oversight of our business whilst at the same time promoting the entrepreneurial spirit that has underpinned Dechras success to date.
In our Corporate Governance Report we aim to provide a clear and meaningful explanation of how the Board leads the Michael Redmond Group and discharges its governance Non-Executive Chairman duties, including how we apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Leadership We have a strong and balanced Board with Board Effectiveness Relations with Shareholders a range of complementary skills to support As Chairman, I am responsible for the The Annual General Meeting will be held in the strategic and operational direction of the leadership of the Board and ensuring its London on 21 October 2016 and I would Group.
There were several changes to the effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
like to invite our shareholders to attend.
It composition of the Board during the past year.
During the 2016 financial year we undertook will provide you with an opportunity to meet Chris Richards stood down in April 2016, an internal evaluation of the Board, its the Board and ask any questions that you after almost six years as a Non-Executive committees and individual Directors.
I am may have in respect of the Groups activities.
Director and as the Companys Remuneration delighted to report that the overall outcome Committee Chairman.
Ishbel Macpherson was Finally, should you have any questions in from the evaluation was that the Board appointed as the Remuneration Committee relation to the report, please feel free to and its individual Directors are performing Chairman on Chris Richards departure.
contact me or the Company Secretary.
effectively, and that the Board is well Anne-Francoise Nesmes stood down in supported and presents an open forum for July 2016, after more than three years service debate.
The findings from this evaluation are Michael Redmond to the Company as the Chief Financial Officer.
Non-Executive Chairman As announced on 17 August 2016, we are 5 September 2016 delighted to confirm that Richard Cotton has Accountability been appointed as her replacement and he is We are now required by the Code to expected to join the Board in January 2017. include an assessment of the viability of the We wish Chris and Anne-Francoise well for Company.
This is covered on page 70. the future and thank them for their extensive contribution to the Board and the Group.
We also welcomed Tony Rice to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Tonys biographical details can be found on page 63.
As you will be aware, I will be standing down as Chairman in October 2016 following our Annual General Meeting and, subject to his election as a Director of the Company at that meeting, Tony will replace me as the Chairman.
With his wealth of experience, Tony is the ideal person to work with the management team on the next phase of the Groups development.
64 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 64 05 09 2016 17:26:53 Governance Corporate Governance Board Membership and Responsibilities Compliance with the Code Details of the Directors together with their biographical details can The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code establishes be found on pages 62 and 63. the principles of good governance for companies: the following report describes how the Company has applied these principles Non-Executive Directors to its activities.
The Board remains committed to maintaining high It is considered that each of the Non-Executive Directors is standards of corporate governance.
In the opinion of the Directors, independent and is free of any business or other relationship the Company has complied with the Code throughout the period.
which could materially interfere with, or compromise, their ability to exercise independent judgement.
Each brings with them a breadth Leadership of experience which adds value to the decision making of the Board The Role of the Board as well as the formulation and progression of the Dechra strategy.
The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long term In line with the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the success of the Company by the creation and delivery of sustainable Chairman, is determined by the Company to be independent.
The Boards strategy has four pillars to promote growth: Senior Independent Director Ishbel Macpherson has held the position of Senior Independent Pipeline Delivery: Director since October 2013.
She provides a sounding board for the Portfolio Focus: Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have failed to be resolved through the normal channels.
Ishbel led Geographical Expansion: and the recruitment process for the Chairmans successor further details are provided in the Nomination Committee Report on page 77.
KPIs have been designed to measure progress and delivery of the strategic plan and our four growth pillars.
Further details are provided on pages 44 and 45.
Role Responsibilities Chairman Lead the Board in the determination of its strategy and achievement of its objectives.
Ensure the effectiveness of the Board in all aspects of its role.
Facilitate the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, ensuring that all decisions are subject to constructive debate and supported by sound decision making processes.
Ensure shareholder views are brought to the attention of the Board.
Chief Executive Officer Day-to-day management of Group operations and leading the Senior Executive Team SET.
Performance and results of the Group.
Execute strategy agreed by the Board.
Chief Financial Officer Responsible for financial planning and reporting for the Group.
Develop and execute the strategic plan.
Managing Director DVP EU Management of the segment which contributes the majority of Group revenue.
Nominated Director for health, safety and environmental matters.
Development and execution of strategy in the EU.
Non-Executive Directors Provide independent and constructive challenge.
Represent a broad range of commercial and industry experience and independent judgement.
Stock Code: DPH 65 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 65 05 09 2016 17:26:53 Corporate Governance continued Board Responsibilities The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The main responsibilities and key actions carried out are set out below: Responsibilities Actions Strategy and performance Annual strategy review.
Strategic decisions are made after reports and recommendations are received from management on markets, potential growth areas including acquisitions, product development, risk analysis, including execution risks.
Risk management and Ongoing review of key risks and material internal control processes.
Review of stress tests on the internal controls Groups forecasts to support the viability statement.
Receipt of Audit Committee reports on risk management process and internal controls.
Oversight of the Groups Approval of the annual budget and capital expenditure projects.
Site visits to factories and offices operations in the UK and abroad.
Review progress through business unit reports and detailed financial results report.
Governance Receive governance reviews from external advisers, Company Secretary and internal audit.
Review of Board skills, performance, composition and succession planning.
Matters Reserved for the Board There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The schedule of matters covers a number of areas, including the following: Strategy and Management Approval and monitoring of long term objectives and strategy.
Approval of the Groups operating and capital expenditure budgets.
Regular reviews of business performance.
Approval of acquisitions and business development proposals.
Financial Reporting Approval of the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports and dividend policy.
Approval of treasury policy, and tax strategy and policy.
Interaction with the external auditor.
Internal Controls Ensure maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
Corporate Governance Board and Committee composition.
Approval of policies such as Health and Safety, Sanctions and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy.
Board Meetings The Board is routinely scheduled to meet nine times per year.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings during the year to 30 June 2016 is set out in the table below: AnneMike Ian Francoise Tony Ishbel Dr Chris Julian Tony Redmond Page Nesmes Griffin Macpherson Richards Heslop Rice Appointment Date 19 April 13 June 22 April 1 November 1 February 1 December 1 January 5 May 2001 1997 2013 2012 2013 2010 2013 2016 Board 9 9 9 9 9 7 9 2 Met 9 times Audit Committee n a n a n a n a 4 3 4 0 Met 4 times Nomination Committee 6 n a n a n a 7 6 7 0 Met 7 times Remuneration Committee 4 n a n a n a 4 3 4 1 Met 4 times Meetings attended Chris Richards did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting prior to his resignation.
He attended all Board, Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings prior to his resignation on 8 April 2016.
Mike Redmond did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting as it dealt with the appointment of his successor.
Tony Rice has attended all meetings since his appointment.
66 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 66 05 09 2016 17:26:54 Governance Where Directors cannot attend a meeting, the Board papers are Global Supply Chain initiatives: still provided allowing the Director to raise any queries or discussion Cash management and corporate credit cards: points through the Chairman.
Should Directors have concerns of any nature which cannot be resolved within the Board meeting, they Review of material internal controls and viability statement stress have the right to ensure their view is recorded in the minutes.
testing results: During the year, in addition to the routine business, presentations by Impact of the resignation of the Chief Financial Officer: and senior management, and strategic development, some of the other Appointments of Non-Executive Chairman, the Chairman of the matters considered by the Board included: Remuneration Committee and the Company Secretary.
Sanctions Policy: Board Committees Pipeline Delivery: The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, namely the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Tax Management: Base erosion and profit sharing: Committees.
The full terms of reference for each of these Integration of Genera, Brovel and Putney: Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
Committee Report on Committee Role and Terms of Reference Pages Audit The main responsibilities are: 72 to 76 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, and assist the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems as described on page 75: to oversee the relationship with and review the effectiveness of the external auditor, monitor their independence and objectivity, and set the policy for non-audit work: and to review and approve the significant accounting policies.
Remuneration The main responsibilities are: 79 to 93 to determine the remuneration, bonuses, long term incentive arrangements, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the Executive Directors and the Chairman: to oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures: and to approve the design of any employee share schemes.
Nomination The main responsibilities are: 77 and 78 to oversee the plans for management succession: to recommend appointments to the Board: to evaluate the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors: and to consider the structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Board also appoints Committees on an ad hoc basis to approve specific projects, or delegated Board matters as deemed necessary.
Director Insurance and Indemnities The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of legal action against Directors as permitted under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director in respect of legal action to the extent allowed under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
As at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnity provisions are in force.
A copy of the indemnity provisions will be available for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Stock Code: DPH 67 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 67 05 09 2016 17:26:54 Corporate Governance continued Board Composition and Gender Diversity Effectiveness The Board seeks to ensure that the Board and the Committees The Board and its Committees are annually assessed to help ensure have an appropriate composition to manage their duties effectively their effectiveness is maintained and that they remain fit for purpose.
and to manage succession issues.
The Board supports diversity The Chairman manages the Board and oversees the operation of in its broadest sense and considers it an essential driver of its Committees with the aim of ensuring that they operate effectively Board effectiveness.
The Board recognises it is important that by utilising the diverse range of skills and experience of the various its composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects a wide range of Board members.
Board Balance and Independence Board Composition as at 5 September 2016 The Board understands the importance of balance and refreshment in terms of its composition and keeps these matters under review.
There have been the following changes at Board level over the past 12 months: Chris Richards Non-Executive Director resigned on 8 April 2016: Tony Rice Non-Executive Director was appointed on 5 May 2016: and Anne-Francoise Nesmes Executive Director resigned on 31 July 2016.
The following changes are expected to take place in the next Non-Executive Chairman 17% 12 months: Non-Executive Directors 50% Michael Redmond will retire at the 2016 Annual General Meeting: Executive Directors 33% Tony Rice will be appointed as Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the Companys forthcoming Annual General The Board does not have a formal diversity policy and is generally Meeting, subject to his election as a Director of the Company opposed to the idea of stated quotas for females.
The Board at that meeting: and believes that appointments should be made solely on merit, the key criterion being whether or not the appointee can add to Richard Cotton Executive Director is expected to join the Board or complement the existing range of skills and experience on in January 2017. the Board.
The Board has 17% female representation.
Female The Nomination Committee has retained an independent recruitment representation below Board level is 30% of the SET and 53% of consultancy, Odgers Berndtson, to assist in the appointment of the overall workforce.
a further Non-Executive Director and it is anticipated a suitable Gender Diversity as at 5 September 2016 appointment will be made before the end of the 2016 calendar year.
1 5 0 2 1 3 The Nomination Committee Report on pages 77 and 78 provides 5 further information on the recruitment process undertaken during the year, succession planning measures taken by the Company together 4 with how we are developing the talent pool internally.
3 Length of Tenure of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors as at 5 September 2016 2 1 2 0 1 Female 3 1 Male 0 2 Entire Executive Non-Executive Board Directors Directors 1 0 0 to 3 3 to 6 6 to 9 9 years years years years 68 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 68 05 09 2016 17:26:54 Governance Senior Executive Team Overall Workforce Regular briefings are provided to the Directors, which cover a as at 30 June 2016 as at 30 June 2016 number of legal and regulatory changes and developments relevant to each Directors areas of responsibility.
In addition, the Company Secretary informs the Directors of any external training courses which may be of relevance.
Each Director is entitled, on request, to receive information to enable him or her to make informed judgements in order to discharge their duties adequately.
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers, and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
Board Evaluation and Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board is important to the success of Female 53% Female 30% the Group and the Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its Male 70% Male 47% performance and that of its Committees, focusing on the following areas: i Board composition: ii strategy review and delivery Conflicts of Interest and External Board Appointments process: iii the format of Board meetings and the decision process: Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, all Directors have a duty iv training and development: v the performance of the Board and to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct the individual Directors: vi Corporate Governance: vii leadership or indirect conflict of interest with the Company.
The Articles of and culture: and viii risk assessment.
One to one meetings were Association of the Company enable the Directors to consider and, held by the Chairman with each of the Executive and Non-Executive if appropriate, authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest Directors and Company Secretary.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
The 2015 Internal Board Evaluation First, only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest The findings of the internal evaluation were discussed at the in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant September 2015 Board meeting.
Overall, the review indicated decision: secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in that the Board operated effectively but noted the following focus a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote areas: the Companys success.
The Directors will also be able to impose ensure that an overview of FAP remains a priority: and limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they deem this to be appropriate.
During the financial year under review no actual or ensure that strategy is the first item on the Boards agendas.
Both of these actions have been addressed during the Ian Page is the Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset financial year.
The Board fully considered, at The 2016 Internal Board Evaluation the time of his appointment, whether this would materially impact The findings of the internal evaluation were discussed at the July on his current time commitment as Chief Executive Officer and 2016 Board meeting.
Overall, the review once again indicated whether it could give rise to any conflict.
As he is not involved in any that the Board operates effectively but noted the following focus investment decision made by Sanford it was not considered that any areas: conflict would arise, nor that there would be any material impact on his time commitment.
acquisition integration: Induction and Training bi-annual strategy review: and In order to ensure that the Board maintains its knowledge succession planning.
and familiarity with the Groups operations, at least one Board meeting per year is held at one of the Groups operational sites.
The last external evaluation was done in 2014.
Due to the recent This year, Board meetings were held at Dechra Pharmaceuticals changes in the Board a decision as to when the next external Manufacturing DPM in Skipton, and at Dechra Veterinary Products evaluation will take place will be taken during the forthcoming year.
EU sites in Sansaw, UK and Den Bosch, the Netherlands.
These However, we anticipate that sufficient time should lapse to enable meetings provide the Board with an informal opportunity to meet the transition to the new Chairman.
with senior management based at these sites.
Any newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive documentation in relation to the remit and obligations of the role, current areas under consideration for the Board and the latest equity research reports.
New Directors visit the various business units in order to allow them to meet with the executive teams and to be shown around the operations.
Tony Rice has visited the Companys facilities and had meetings with the management teams at Skipton and Sansaw in the UK and Den Bosch in the Netherlands.
In addition, meetings were arranged with the Group HR Director, Group IT Director, Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer and the Group Supply Chain Director.
Stock Code: DPH 69 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 69 05 09 2016 17:26:55 Corporate Governance continued Appointment and Re-election of Directors The Boards assessment has been made with due regard to the On appointment, Directors are required to seek election at their first Groups current position, its future prospects, the strategic plan and Annual General Meeting following appointment.
At the forthcoming the management of the Groups principal risks as detailed on pages Annual General Meeting, Tony Rice, who was appointed to the Board 56 to 59 of the Strategic Report.
The assessment is based on the on 5 May 2016, will offer himself for election.
All of the remaining assumption that the Group will be able to refinance its borrowing Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election, excluding facilities which are currently committed until September 2019.
Each of the Directors has been subject to a The Board reviews the budget and strategic plan annually and the formal evaluation by the Nomination Committee and it is considered Groups principal risks on a rolling basis throughout the year.
The that each Director continues to perform effectively and demonstrate planning process considers risks to sales and cost forecasts for each commitment, not only in respect of their roles and responsibilities, part of the Group and the Groups consolidated income and cash flow but also in relation to the Group and its shareholders.
therefore, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their respective re-elections and the election of Tony Rice.
Stress testing of the Groups projected cash flows has been carried out by considering those principal risks that could have a material Accountability impact on viability.
The impact of these principal risks can be Financial Reporting summarised into three categories, namely loss of profits on key The Board seeks to present a fair, balanced and understandable products, pipeline delays, and loss of third party manufacturing assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
A number of severe but plausible stress tests have been conducted on these areas, both individually and in combination, The responsibilities of the Directors and the external auditor in together with an overall reverse stress test on the Groups borrowing connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the facilities and covenant commitments.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Independent Auditors Report on pages 97 and 100 to 106 respectively.
The Board believes that the Group has adequate resilience due to its diversified product portfolio, its geographic footprint, a strong balance Preservation of Value sheet, healthy cash generation and access to external financing, The basis on which the Group generates and preserves value over which includes committed facilities.
the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group are to be found in the Strategic Report.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and Going Concern meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period from The Directors have a reasonable expectation that Group has 30 June 2016. adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going Internal Control and Risk Management concern basis of accounting in preparing these annual financial The Board retains overall responsibility for determining the nature statements.
and extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have given due regard to the following: In accordance with the Code, the Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control the Groups business activities together with factors likely to systems, and confirms that: impact the future growth and operating performance: there is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, managing the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, available debt and monitoring the Groups principal risks: facilities and compliance with the financial covenants associated with the Groups borrowings, which are described in the financial the SETs assessment of the principal risks is considered to be statements: and robust and those risks that have the potential to impact liquidity have been considered in the assessment of the Groups viability: the cash generated from operations, available cash resources and committed bank facilities and their maturities, which taken the principal risks and internal control processes have been together provide confidence that the Group will be able to meet monitored by the SET throughout the year and reviewed by the their obligations as they fall due.
Board on a rolling programme throughout the year: and As at 30 June 2016 the Group had cash balances of 39.1 million no significant failings or weaknesses in internal control processes and net borrowings of 116.6 million 2015: cash balances of have been identified.
45.9 million and net cash of 13.4 million.
Further information Based on its review throughout the year, the Board is satisfied that on available resources and committed bank facilities is provided in the risk management and internal control systems in place remain notes 17 and 20 to the financial statements.
effective and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the Viability Statement Group will be successful in delivering its objectives.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has determined that a three Further information on how the business manages risk can be found year period to 30 June 2019 is an appropriate period over which to in the Strategic Report on pages 54 and 55. provide its viability statement.
This is supported by the Groups budget process which includes detailed projections for the next two financial years and broader projections from the third year of the five year strategic planning process.
The Board believes this provides a sound framework for providing reasonable assurance on the Groups viability given the inherent uncertainty associated with longer term forecasts.
70 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 70 05 09 2016 17:26:55 Governance Relations with Shareholders Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Relationships with shareholders receive high priority and a rolling programme of meetings between institutional shareholders and Executive Directors is held throughout the year.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give annual and half-yearly results presentations to institutional shareholders, analysts and the media in the UK.
These meetings are in addition to the Annual General Meeting and seek to foster a mutual understanding of the Companys and shareholders objectives.
Such meetings are conducted in a format to protect price sensitive information that has not already been made generally available to all the Companys shareholders.
Similar guidelines also apply to other communications between the Company and other parties such as financial analysts, brokers and the media.
The Company organises site visits on a periodic basis.
Feedback is collated by the Companys brokers after such presentations.
The feedback is then circulated to the Board for review and consideration.
In addition, the Board is provided with a monthly market summary report which reports on share price and share register movements.
Where material changes in respect of remuneration or governance are proposed, the Board seeks to consult with its major shareholders before implementing such changes.
During the 2016 financial year, an investor perceptions survey was undertaken by Edison Investment Research Limited which confirmed that Dechras strategy was clearly defined and understood by our shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet shareholders upon request.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All members of the Board are scheduled to attend the Annual General Meeting the Meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer shareholders questions at the Meeting.
Notice of the Meeting is dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
The information sent to shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered, with a separate resolution prepared for each substantive matter.
When a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against the resolution and any abstentions are disclosed at the Meeting.
The results of votes lodged for and against each resolution are announced to the London Stock Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
At the Meeting there will be an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communications between shareholders and Directors.
Michael Redmond Non-Executive Chairman 5 September 2016 Stock Code: DPH 71 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 71 05 09 2016 17:26:55
