58 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Letter from the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Company Secretary Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, we are pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Boards of Directors are ultimately responsible for the corporate governance of their companies, that is to say, the way in which companies are directed and controlled.
The responsibilities of the Board include: setting the companys strategic aims and its values: providing the leadership to put them into effect: supervising and constructively challenging management who are responsible for the day to day operational running of the business: and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
We continue to believe that Diageos Board has the appropriate diversity and balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable it to discharge these responsibilities effectively.
The description in this report of Diageos corporate governance structures and procedures and of the work of the Board, its committees and the Executive Committee is intended to give a sense of how this is carried out.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to Diageo as a UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2016 are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 the Code and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules, which require us to describe, in our Annual Report, our corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with our application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Throughout the year, Diageo has complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code with the exception that two directors wereunable to attend the 2015 AGM, which is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, www.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the USSarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign private issuers, is continually monitored.
As Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice, differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised in Diageos 20-F filing and on our website atwww.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Dr Franz B Humer David Harlock Chairman Company Secretary PDF Page: 56 87. p3.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
