Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN Introduction Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce DFS Furniture plcs Corporate governance report for the year, being the Groups first full financial year since the IPO in March 2015.
During this time, the Board has been fully committed to continually developing the highest standards of corporate governance for the Group and, in particular, addressing the areas of non-compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code noted last year.
In this report, we include a description of how the Group has applied the principles and provisions of the Governance Code and provide details of the Governance structure and framework, highlighting the enhancements from last year.
Board composition Our vision is to be a world class British Following the movement in Board members during the year, the company in all respects including Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman and two Executive Directors along with three independent Noncorporate governance.
The Governance Code recommends that at least half the board of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
As a result, we continue to be compliant with the Governance Code in this regard and have achieved our Key governance activities: previously stated objective regarding Board composition and independence.
The main governance issues addressed by the Board, and its Committees, during the year include: In last years Annual Report, we noted an area of ongoing non-compliance with the Governance Code due to fact that I, the managing the selection process and transition of Companys Non-Executive Chairman, am, for the purposes of our new Chief Financial Officer, Nicola Bancroft, in the Governance Code, not considered to have been independent preparation for the retirement of Bill Barnes in July on my appointment as Chairman back in 2010 due to my role as 2016.
Details of the appointment processes can be an Operating Partner at Advent.
As a consequence, this found in the Nomination Committee report on pages non-compliance continues, as indeed will the independence 48 and 49: safeguards put in place at the time of the IPO to counter any performing the first evaluation of the Board, and its potential issues.
These safeguards prohibit me from acting on various Committees, in order to ensure its behalf of Advent in respect of its investment in the business and effectiveness.
Further details on this process and its also prevent me from receiving any remuneration from Advent in outcomes can be found on page 41: respect of my role at DFS.
Furthermore, the other members of reviewing the Board composition following the the Board are unanimously of the opinion that I can continue to stepping-down of Advents Nominee Director, Andy be a valuable asset to the Group, bringing a wealth of experience Dawson, in April 2016: and in public companies and a keen understanding of retail reviewing the written Terms of Reference for all businesses, as well as being independent in character and three of the Board Committees and amending judgement.
indb 36 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK DFS Furniture plc Board Members: Non-Executive Chairman 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 Executive Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Members: 3 Independent Non-Executive Members: Members: Directors 3 Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman Directors 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors The Audit Committees role is to The Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee assist the Board with the recommends the Groups policy assists the Board in reviewing discharge of its responsibilities in on executive remuneration and the structure, size and relation to financial reporting.
determines the levels of composition of the Board.
remuneration for Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior management.
Executive Committee Our vision is to be a world class British company in all aspects including corporate governance.
As stated last year, we view measurement of performance, targeting improvement and reporting results to be as important for us as a Board as it is for our business.
Richard Baker Chairman 5 October 2016 37 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
indb 37 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Compliance with the UK Corporate The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for Governance Code 2014: Introduction its approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to its The Board is wholly committed to upholding high standards of Committees.
This schedule sets out key aspects of the affairs of the corporate governance and following a rigorous structure for the Group which the Board does not delegate, including: supervision, control and management of the Group.
approval of the annual Group budget and strategic four year The UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Code, business plan and review of performance against them, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, including approval of growth activities into new markets or applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014. countries: A copy of the Governance Code can be found at www.
approval of the interim annual report and accounts and any preliminary announcement, including approval of dividend The corporate governance report that follows, which policy payments: incorporates reports from the Audit and Nomination Committees approval of treasury policies, material guarantees, granting of on pages 43 to 49 together with the Strategic report on pages 2 security and entry into material amendment of loan facilities: to 31, the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 62 and approval and review of the management of balance sheet the Directors report on pages 34 and 35, describes and explains foreign exchange exposure: how the Company has applied the relevant provisions and approval of material finance and operating leases and principles of the Governance Code, and the Financial Conduct approval of major investments including corporate capital Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules acquisitions disposals: throughout the year.
approval of changes to the Groups capital structure including reductions of capital and share issues buybacks: Compliance statement approval of recommendations from the Audit, Remuneration The Company adopted the Governance Code since admission or Nomination committees: of the Companys shares to the main market of the London Stock ensuring satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based on a Exchange on 11 March 2015.
During the financial year ended mutual understanding of objectives: 30 July 2016, the Company has applied all of the main principles approval of changes to the structure, size and composition of of the Code with the ongoing exception of A.
3.1 The Chairman the Board and any other control structure: was not independent on appointment, the explanation for which maintenance of a sound system of internal controls and is noted in the Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance.
risk management, including approval of the Groups risk register: and The role of the Board any decision likely to have a material impact on the Group The Board currently consists of three Independent Nonfrom any financial, operational, strategic or reputational Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman and two perspective.
Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 32 to 33.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who has responsibility for ensuring The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of compliance with the Boards procedures.
All the Directors have the the Group and for leading and controlling the Group and has right to have their opposition to, or concerns over, any Board overall authority for the management and conduct of the Groups decision noted in the minutes.
During the year, no such opposition business, strategy and development.
The Board is also or concerns were noted.
The Board has adopted guidelines by responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of which Directors may take independent professional advice at the internal control and risk management including financial, Companys expense in the performance of their duties.
operational and compliance controls and for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place and for the approval of any The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met several changes to the capital, corporate and or management structure times throughout the year without the Executives present.
Board committees The Chief Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial Officer Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board has CFO sit on the Board and two levels of management sit below delegated to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration the Board: the Executive Committee and the Operating Board, Committees certain authorities.
There are written terms of each of which are led by the CEO.
The CEO and CFO therefore reference for each of these Committees, all of which have been act as a bridge between Management and the Board.
The Board reviewed and amended, where appropriate, during the year.
delegates to management the day-to-day running of the business The revised terms of reference were adopted by the Board on within defined parameters and Board meetings are scheduled to 17 June 2016 and are available on the Groups corporate coincide with key events in the corporate and trading calendar.
Separate reports for each Committee are included in this Annual Report from pages 43 to 62.
indb 38 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Board is chaired by Richard Baker, who was appointed in 2010 whilst the Group was under Advents private ownership.
The Chairman of the Company is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Ian Filby is the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for managing the profitable operation of the Group to create shareholder value by promoting the long term success of the Group.
The role is distinct and separate to that of the Chairman and clear divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing, as summarised below: ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN ROLE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER managing the business of the Board including organising managing the Groups physical, financial and and chairing regular meetings: human resources: ensuring the submission to the Board by the Chief planning the Groups strategies effectively: Executive of objectives, policies and strategies for ensuring that the Group complies with all relevant the Group, including the Group business plan and legislation and regulatory requirements: annual budget: allocating duties and responsibilities to Directors: keeping under review with the Board the general reviewing the performance of the other Executive progress and long term development of the Group and Directors and making appropriate recommendations as ensuring that effective strategic planning for the Group to their remuneration to the Remuneration committee: is undertaken: managing the Groups relations with shareholders, facilitating the contributions of Non-Executive Directors customers, suppliers, regulators, other public to the leadership of the Group: organisations, other companies and the media: and holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors keeping the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present, as appropriate: informed in respect of all relevant matters.
ensuring effective communication between the Board and the Companys shareholders: acting on the results of the Boards annual review of its and its Committees and individual Directors performances: and appraising the performance of the Chief Executive and making appropriate recommendations as to his or her remuneration to the Remuneration Committee.
ROLE OF THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR SID The Governance Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a company with a premium listing on the official list of the London Stock Exchange Official List should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels through the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors have failed to resolve, or for which such channels would be inappropriate.
Luke Mayhew was appointed as the Senior Independent Director and has served in this capacity throughout the year.
indb 39 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Board balance and independence Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Advent is entitled As mentioned in the Chairmans introduction, DFS cannot be fully to nominate for appointment to the Board one Nominee Director compliant with the recommendations of the Governance Code in who is approved as being suitable by the Nomination Committee.
this area, but will continue to mitigate any perceived risks with This entitlement will remain in force for so long as Advent holds, in appropriate safeguards.
the aggregate, at least 15% of the ordinary share capital or voting rights of the Company.
Up to 25 April 2016, the Nominee Director The Company has a relationship agreement the Relationship appointed by Advent was Andy Dawson who stepped-down from Agreement in place with its principal shareholder, Advent, and Board on that date.
At the date of this Annual Report, while with the current Chairman, Richard Baker.
Advents shareholding is still sufficient to exercise this entitlement, no further Nominee Director has been nominated.
The principal purposes of the Relationship Agreement are to ensure that: Length of appointments Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for an initial period of the Group and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their three years, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the business independently of Advent and or Richard Baker: Companys annual general meeting and to any requirements of the all transactions and arrangements between the parties are Listing Rules, and are contingent on continued satisfactory conducted at arm's length and on normal commercial terms: and performance.
neither party take any action or propose a shareholder resolution that would have the effect of preventing the Group from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules.
The Company confirms that the terms of the Relationship Agreement have been fully complied with during the year.
Information, meetings and attendance During the year, the Board met on seven occasions to review operational, trading and strategic performance, including the approval of the updated strategic four year plan and budget for the next financial year.
In addition, two telephone meetings were held to review important trading periods and market announcements.
A summary of meeting attendance for the year is as follows: Remuneration Nomination Date of appointment Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Total meetings in financial year 9 3 3 4 1 1 Richard Baker 3 February 2015 8 9 3 4 Ian Filby 3 February 2015 9 9 Bill Barnes 3 February 2015 9 9 4 2 Andy Dawson 3 February 2015 5 7 3 Luke Mayhew 3 February 2015 8 9 3 3 3 3 4 4 Gwyn Burr 3 February 2015 9 9 3 3 3 3 4 4 Julie Southern 3 February 2015 9 9 3 3 3 3 4 4 Notes: 1.
Richard Baker was unable to attend one Board meeting Nomination Committee meeting due to family illness but received the papers and provided advance input for the relevant meetings.
Andy Dawson was unable to attend one Board meeting due to illness and one telephone Board meeting due to a prior commitment but received the papers and provided advance input for the relevant meetings.
Luke Mayhew was unable to attend one telephone Board meeting due to a prior commitment but received the papers and provided advance input for the relevant meeting.
Andy Dawson stepped down from the Board on 25 April 2016 and therefore was only eligible to attend seven meetings in the year.
40 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 Members of the executive team and the Chairman attended Development committee meetings as appropriate.
Nicola Bancroft was appointed As noted in last years Annual Report, all Directors received an as CFO on 1 August 2016 and was therefore not required to attend induction briefing from the Groups legal advisers on their duties any Board meetings during the year.
However, as part of the and responsibilities as Directors of a publicly quoted company as planned handover process from Bill Barnes, she attended all of the part of the preparations for the IPO.
Furthermore, the Nonmeetings since confirmation as CFO designate.
Executive Directors have all met key members of senior management and advisors to the Group, many of whom have The Board has a full programme of Board meetings planned for given presentations to the Board and Committee members the year ahead and intends to meet seven times, with two during various Board and Committee meetings, in order to additional telephone meetings to review important trading continue the development of their understanding of the Group periods.
At these meetings, the Board will monitor the Groups and the issues it faces.
performance against the agreed strategy and business plan and review specific business areas, including health and safety and During the year, the Chairman reviewed and agreed with each regulatory matters, in order to maintain and enhance a broad and Director their individual training and development needs.
In thorough understanding of the business model.
particular, with regard to the recent appointment of Nicola Bancroft as CFO, a bespoke development programme The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Company was implemented during her time as CFO designate in order to Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive complement the existing experience acquired during her accurate, timely and clear information.
Prior to each scheduled previous 3 years as Commercial Finance Director.
Board meeting, a pack is circulated in respect of the most recent financial period which includes an update on key performance Board evaluation targets, trading performance against budget and includes As disclosed last year, an evaluation of the Board, and its various detailed financial and non-financial data and analysis.
Board Committees, was deferred until it had been working together for packs are distributed in the week prior to each meeting to a reasonable length of time to enable meaningful conclusions to provide sufficient time for Directors to review their papers in be drawn.
If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting for any reason, they nonetheless receive the relevant papers and are As a result, following the first anniversary of the IPO, the Board consulted prior to the meeting and their views are made known carried out its first review of its own effectiveness, and that of its to the other Directors.
various Committees, during the year.
This review, which covered the period from the IPO to the end of the current financial year, Conflicts of interest was facilitated by the Chairman, and the Group Company The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such Secretary, and involved: situations for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each Director.
All Directors are required to each Director completing a formal questionnaire on the ensure that they keep these duties under review and to inform performance of the Board and each of the Board committees, the Group Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any considering the balance of skills, diversity, independence change in their respective positions.
and knowledge of the Group on the Board, how the Board works together, and other factors relevant to its The Companys conflict of interest procedures are reflected in its effectiveness: and Articles of Association Articles.
In line with the Companies Act the Chairman speaking to all Directors on a one-to-one basis.
2006, the Articles allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate.
The decision to The consensus was that the Board, and its Committees, which authorise a conflict can only be made by non-conflicted were newly formed just prior to the time of the IPO, had Directors.
The Board considers conflicts or potential conflicts at performed effectively.
Nevertheless, the Board recognised areas each Board meeting.
for on-going development which should form the focus for the following year including: The Articles require the Company to indemnify its officers, including officers of wholly-owned subsidiaries, against liabilities certain aspects of talent management and succession arising from the conduct of the Groups business, to the extent planning: permitted by law.
For a number of years, the Group has the evaluation process of the CEOs performance: and purchased Directors and officers liability insurance and this is the evolution of the Boards forward agendas.
The Governance Code provides that evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
Therefore, it is envisaged such a review will take place either in the next financial year or the year after that.
The Senior Independent Director, Luke Mayhew, together with the Independent Non-Executive Directors, evaluated the performance of the Chairman and discussed the results with him.
indb 41 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Election of Directors In particular, the Company communicates with both the institutional The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a and private shareholders through the following means: vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next Interaction with all shareholders following AGM and shall then be eligible for election by The Companys corporate website www.
In accordance with the Articles, Nicola Bancroft where investor information and news is regularly updated.
will be offering herself for election, along with all the other The Annual Report, which sets out details of the Groups Directors for re-election, at the AGM to be held at DFS Head strategy, business model and performance over the past Office, 1 Rockingham Way, Redhouse Interchange, financial year and plans for future growth.
Adwick-le-Street, Doncaster, DN6 7NA, on 2 December 2016, The Annual General Meeting, where all shareholders have full details of which are set out in the notice of meeting the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed and to accompanying this Annual Report.
put questions to the Board and executive team.
Presentations of full year and interim results to analysts and As noted above, following the formal internal evaluation process shareholders, which are also available on the Companys of the effectiveness of the Board, the Board is satisfied that each corporate website.
Director remains competent to discharge his her responsibilities as a member of the Board.
Interaction with institutional shareholders The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and External appointments Director of Corporate Finance hold meetings with The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments provided institutional investors following the full-year and that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to interim results.
perform their duties as Executive Directors of the Group.
Up to The Chairman meets with institutional shareholders 21 June 2016, Ian Filby was Non-Executive Chairman of Shoezone on request.
plc and also continues to be a director of IFF Life and Business Solutions Limited and the British Retail Consortium.
The Board Interaction with private shareholders considers that these appointments do not adversely impact his Dial-in facility to live presentations of the full-year and ability to carry out his role.
Bill Barnes did not hold any outside interim results.
appointments during the year and Nicola Bancroft does not Dedicated email point of contact to answer shareholder currently hold any outside appointments.
The Non-Executive Directors appointment letters anticipate a The Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter minimum time commitment of two days per month, recognising stakeholders might wish to raise.
Investor relations activity, that there is always the possibility of an additional time analysis of the share register, views of major shareholders and commitment and ad hoc matters arising from time to time, advice from the Companys brokers are all ongoing items of particularly when the Group is undergoing a period of increased review by the Board.
The average time commitment inevitably increases where a Non-Executive Director assumes additional The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available to responsibilities such as being appointed to a Board Committee.
attend investor relations meetings or to request meetings with investors or analysts independently of the Groups management, Relations with shareholders if required.
In accordance with the Code, the Board recognises that it has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place and any major shareholders issues and concerns are communicated to the Board through the Chairman.
As part of its investor relations programme, the Executive has maintained an active dialogue with its key stakeholders, including institutional investors, during the year in order to discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group including strategy and new developments.
