Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Report of the Audit Committee DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 63 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
The purpose of this report is to describe how the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
In overview, the role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review: the integrity of the companys financial statements: internal control and risk management: audit and risk programmes: business conduct and ethics: whistleblowing: and the appointment of the external auditor.
The work of the Committee during the year included various matters referred to in last years report.
The Committee oversaw compliance with both the updated version of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code notably the requirements for a Viability Statement and increased disclosure on risk and the Financial Reporting Councils new Guidance on Risk management, Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting which replaced the Turnbull and other guidance.
In addition the Committee oversaw the transition to the new auditors,  LLP PwC.
With regard to the outcome of the UK referendum, to leave the European Union, the Committee will monitor the situation, with a view to ensuring that any resulting risks to the Company are properly managed.
In discharging its duties, the Audit Committee seeks to balance independent oversight of the matters within its remit with providing support and guidance to management.
I remain confident that the Committee, supported by members of senior management and the external auditors, has carried out its duties in the year under review, effectively and to a high standard.
Philip G Scott Chairman of the Audit Committee PDF Page: 56 87. p8.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 64 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Report of the Audit Committee Assumptions used in respect of post employment plans.
Having REPORT OF THE considered advice from external actuaries and assumptions used by companies with comparator plans, the committee agreed that AUDITCOMMITTEE the assumptions used to calculate the income statement and balance sheet assets and liabilities for post employment plans were appropriate see note 13.
Role of the Audit Committee The formal role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of Viability Statement.
The committee noted that severe but reference, which are available at www.
com en-row plausible risk scenarios had been identified: a robust risk ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Key elements of the assessment had been carried out: and the groups viability and role of the committee and work carried out during the year are set going concern consideration proved with stress testing.
into account the companys balance sheet position, the committee expected the group to be able to meet its liabilities as Financial statements they fell due over the three-year period ending 30 June 2019.
The During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and a risk that the group would become insolvent during this timeframe sub-committee met once and reviewed the annual reports and was considered remote.
The Committee recommended to the associated preliminary year end results announcement, focusing on Board that the Viability statement above be approved.
key areas of judgement and complexity, critical accounting policies, provisioning and any changes required in these areas or policies.
As part of its review of the Annual Report, the committee considered In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the interim results whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable noting the announcement, which included the interim financial statements Codes new reference to position as well as performance, business and oversaw the transition to the new auditors, PwC.
On the basis of this work, the Audit Committee The company has in place internal control and risk management recommended to the Board that it could make the required systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process statement that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and and the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
A review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by Internal control and risk management: audit and risk programme: management through the work of its filings assurance committee business conduct and ethics including whistleblowing FAC to ensure that the financial position and results of the group At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed detailed are appropriately reflected therein.
The Audit Committee reviewed reports from the heads of the Global Risk & Compliance GRC and the work of the FAC and a report on the conclusions of the FAC Global Audit & Risk GAR teams including coverage of the areas process was provided to the Audit Committee by the Chief mentioned in the title of this section and had sight of the minutes of Financial Officer.
meetings of managements Audit & Risk Committee.
A key focus for Significant issues and judgements that were considered in respect the work of both GRC and GAR during the year and their reporting of the 2016 financial statements were as follows.
These include the to the committee, continued to be a review of recent acquisitions.
matters relating to risks disclosed in the UK external auditors report.
The Committee in turn were thus able to keep under review the Disclosure on the quality of the earnings and one off tems development of the controls and compliance framework in acquired included in cash flow.
The committee agreed that sufficient companies.
The Committee also received regular updates from the disclosure was made in the financial statements.
group general counsel on significant litigation and from the head The committee determined that exceptional items are of tax on the groups tax profile and key issues.
appropriately classified considering their size and nature, and The GRC reporting included a consideration of key risks and sufficient disclosure is provided in the financial statements related mitigations, including those set out in the section of this see note 4.
Annual Report dealing with principal risks.
Based on this activity Review of carrying value of assets in particular intangible assets.
during the year, the Audit Committee made a recommendation to The committee agreed that an impairment charge of 118 million the Board covering the nature and extent of the risks it was willing excluding tax be made against the Ypica brand and related to take to achieve its strategic goals and its internal statement of risk fixed assets and goodwill allocated to the Paraguay, Uruguay appetite this was considered also by the Audit & Risk Committee.
and Brazil cash-generating unit but that, otherwise, the fair value The Board agreed this recommendation.
of the companys assets was in excess of their carrying value Through the activities of the Audit Committee described in this see notes 6 and 10. report and its related recommendations to the Board, the Board Exchange rate used to translate operations in Venezuela.
The confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys committee determined an appropriate rate used for the year systems of internal control and risk management and that there were ended 30 June 2016 for consolidation purposes, that represents no material failings identified and no significant failings identified the best estimation of the rate at which capital and dividend which require disclosure in this Annual Report.
repatriations are expected to be realised see note 1.
External auditor Disclosure on taxation.
The committee agreed that the separate During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the external audit presentation of the tax risk and the expansion of the tax note strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of disclosure appropriately addresses the significant change in the the interim results and its audit of the consolidated financial international tax environment giving sufficient and transparent statements.
information for the users see page 21 and note 7.
The Audit Committee reviews annually the appointment of the Review of legal cases.
The committee agreed that adequate auditor taking into account the auditors effectiveness and provision has been made for all material litigation and disputes, independence and all appropriate guidelines and makes a based on the currently most likely outcomes, including the recommendation to the Board accordingly.
Any decision to open the litigation summarised in note 18. external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit PDF Page: 56 87. p9.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Report of the Audit Committee DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 65 Committee.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the companys current choice of external auditor.
The company has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 CMA Order for the financial year ended 30 June 2016.
The Audit Committee assesses the ongoing effectiveness and quality of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings and a questionnaire-based internal review with the finance team and other senior executives.
Given that the year under review was PwCs first in office following a tender last year, the assessment will be carried out later in 2016.
The group has a policy on auditor independence and on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is reviewed annually, most recently in July 2016.
The review took into consideration the new regulations on non-audit services.
Under this policy, the provision of any non-audit service must be approved by the Audit Committee, unless the proposed service is both expected to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of service categories which the Audit Committee has pre-approved.
Fees paid to the auditor for audit, audit related and other services are analysed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The nature and level of all services provided by the external auditor is a factor taken into account by the Audit Committee when it reviews annually the independence of the external auditor.
Financial expert and other attendees For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under SOX, section 407, the Board has determined that Philip Scott is independent and may be regarded as an Audit Committee financial expert.
The Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the group general counsel the group financial controller, the head of GAR, the GRC director, the group chief accountant and the external auditor regularly attend meetings of the committee.
The Audit Committee met privately with the external auditor and with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
Training and deep dives During the year, the Audit Committee had a risk review and training session, presented by senior executives, on data protection.
In addition, as part of a Board meeting, Committee members had a presentation from senior management on the priorities and challenges of the Europe and GB businesses.
The Committee concluded at the time that it was satisfied with the Companys position on these matters but that they would be kept under review.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
