Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION My role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee is to ensure we have the appropriate skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and in senior management positions, both now and in the future, in order that DFS continues to compete successfully in the marketplace.
During the year, we had the challenge of replacing Bill Barnes, our Group Finance Director for the past 13 years, in preparation for his retirement in July 2016.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our sincere gratitude to Bill for his dedicated and diligent service over the years and, at the same time, following a rigorous market-wide selection process, welcome Nicola Bancroft to the Board.
Further Board movements during the year included the stepping down of Advents Nominee Director, Andy Dawson, in line with their investment strategy.
Once again, on behalf of the Board, I would like to express our sincere gratitude to Andy for his support as representative of DFSs largest shareholder since We have now achieved a 50:50 gender their initial investment in 2010. balance on the Board.
As mentioned in my introduction to the corporate governance statement, it is not possible to fully comply with the provisions of the Governance Code, because of my deemed lack of independence on appointment back in 2010.
However, with the appropriate safeguards in place, and the fact that at least half of the Boards members are now independent Non-Executive Directors, we believe any perceived risk has been satisfactorily mitigated.
As a result of the above Board changes, it is very pleasing to note that we have now achieved a 50:50 gender balance on the Board.
During the forthcoming year, it is my intention the Committee will continue to be proactive in assessing and managing an orderly evolution of the membership of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance where appropriate.
Richard Baker Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5 October 2016 48 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
indb 48 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 Composition Diversity The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard Baker and its The Group pursues diversity, including gender diversity, throughout other members are Luke Mayhew, Gwyn Burr and Julie Southern.
The Board has set specific targets for the coming year The Governance Code recommends that a majority of the in relation to the proportion of female retail colleagues which will be Nomination Committee be non-executive directors, independent in reported upon in due course.
Furthermore, following the recent character and judgement and free from any relationship or appointment of Nicola Bancroft, our Board now has three female circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, Directors and therefore a 50:50 gender split.
We will continue to give affect their judgement.
As such, the Board considers that the due consideration to Board balance and diversity when making new Company complies with the Governance Code.
appointments to the Board but will continue to apply the overarching principle of appointing talented people at every level to deliver high Only members of the Committee have the right to attend performance.
Committee meetings, but the Committee may invite others, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Head of Human Resources and external advisers, to attend all or part of any Richard Baker meeting if it thinks it is appropriate or necessary or pursuant to Chairman of the Nomination Committee the terms of any agreement with shareholders.
5 October 2016 The Nomination Committee will meet as often as it deems necessary but in any event at least once a year.
Roles and responsibilities The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees including an appraisal of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, including gender and for making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
It is also responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed, and amended where appropriate, during the year and the revised terms of reference adopted by the Board on 17 June 2016, details of which are available on the Companys corporate website at www.
Activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee formally met four times during the year and the main activities included: management of the market-wide selection process, engaging the services of Calibro who are independent of the Group, for the replacement of Bill Barnes as CFO resulting in the appointment of Nicola Bancroft including coordination of the transitional process : review of the Board size, structure and composition following the stepping-down of Advents Nominee Director, Andy Dawson: review of the talent and succession planning for the Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the business resulting in the restructuring of the Executive Board within the senior leadership team: internal review of the Committees effectiveness: and consideration of the re-election of Directors at the AGM.
