Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The principal role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review the integrity of the Groups financial results, to review the Groups internal controls and risk management systems, to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditor.
In this report, I explain how the Committee discharged these responsibilities, with specific reference to the requirements of the Governance Code, therefore assisting the Board in determining this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The composition of the Committee has remained unchanged since the last annual report, due the continuing independence of its members, and three meetings have been held during the year, in-line with its terms of reference.
During the last twelve months I have been particularly pleased with the development of the Internal Audit function which has I have been particularly pleased expanded its focus away from being a largely store based with the development of the Internal compliance team to encompass a focus on the wider business and head office functions.
The team have also started to work Audit function.
with Dwell and Sofa Workshop to ensure that consistent and appropriate internal controls are applied across the whole of the Group.
The initial expanded Internal Audit reports reflecting this wider remit have highlighted some useful areas where control improvements can be made which the business is addressing.
As always there is a need for continued change and the Committee will continue to support the Internal Audit function in line with the operational needs of the business.
The Committee has also ensured that appropriate internal policies are in place.
This covers a variety of areas including non-audit work, whistleblowing and litigation review.
I would like to thank the Company and my fellow Committee members for their engagement during the year and look forward to continued progress in the coming 12 months.
Julie Southern Chairman of the Audit Committee 5 October 2016 43 43 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
indb 43 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Composition The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the The Audit Committee is chaired by Julie Southern and its other Annual Report and Accounts and the half-yearly reports remains members are Luke Mayhew and Gwyn Burr.
The Audit Committee will give due consideration to laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Corporate The Governance Code recommends that all members of the Governance Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Audit Committee are Non-Executive Directors, independent in character and judgement and free from any relationship or The Audit Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear Accounts and advises the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they to, affect their judgement and that one such member has recent are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that, by necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and virtue of her current and former executive and non-executive performance, business model and strategy.
roles, details of which are set out on page 33, Julie Southern has recent and relevant financial experience and the Company Activities of the Audit Committee complies with the requirements of the Governance Code in this The Audit Committee of the Group met three times during the respect.
Similarly, both Luke Mayhew and Gwyn Burr have year and attendance at those meetings is shown on page 40.
At extensive relevant commercial and operational experience in each meeting, standing agenda items relating to whistleblowing large organisations which benefit the Committee.
Biographies of and litigation issues were reviewed.
the Independent Non-Executive Directors are included on pages 32 and 33.
At the October 2015 meeting, the Committee discussed and approved the full year results for 2014 15 including a review of the The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chairman full year external audit and KPMG LLPs subsequent reattend meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation, as do appointment.
It also reviewed and approved a non-audit services KPMG LLP and other members of management or the Board as policy and, following a review of the 2014 15 internal control appropriate.
The Group Company Secretary also attends by environment, reviewed and approved the internal audit scope invitation in order to maintain a record of the meetings.
Roles and responsibilities At the March 2016 meeting, the Committee reviewed a The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its summary of internal audit reports, reviewed and approved an responsibilities with regard to the oversight of: updated whistleblowing policy and considered the updated risk register and risk profile of the Group, including HMRCs annual financial reporting: risk review.
internal controls and risk management systems: compliance, whistleblowing and fraud: and At the June 2016 meeting, the Committee reviewed and internal and external audit.
approved KPMG LLPs continuing appointment, audit strategy and fees for the audit of the 2015 16 full year results.
In addition, In particular, this includes: it reviewed a further summary of internal audit reports, an updated risk profile and the results of the first evaluation of the monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Committees effectiveness.
Furthermore, it approved a policy for Group, including its annual and half-yearly reports, and any the accounting of non-underlying items and also approved other formal announcement relating to its financial updates to the Committees terms of reference following their performance including a review of any significant financial annual review.
reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups processes and procedures for ensuring The updated terms of reference were adopted by the Board on that material business risks are properly identified and 17 June 2016 and are available on the Companys corporate managed: website at www.
reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems: Following the 2015 16 year end, at the September 2016 meeting, receiving regular reports on significant litigation and the Committee reviewed and approved, for consideration by the compliance issues: Board, the financial results for the 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016 reviewing the Groups arrangements with regard to employee including a review of the full year external audit.
As part of that contractor whistleblowing, fraud detection, prevention of review process, the members of the Committee reviewed the bribery and money-laundering: Annual Report, the adequacy of the disclosure with respect to monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups going concern and whether the Annual Report taken as a whole internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk was fair, balanced and understandable.
management system: overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditor, including their appointment, remuneration, independence and the effectiveness of the audit process: and developing and implementing a policy on the supply of non-audit services.
indb 44 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 This additional review by the Audit Committee, supplemented by performance of the auditor and its ongoing independence, taking advice received from external advisors during the drafting into consideration input from management, responses to process, assisted the Board in determining that the report was questions from the Committee and the audit findings reported to fair, balanced and understandable at the time that it was the Committee.
Based on this review, the Committee concluded approved.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of that the external audit process had been run efficiently and that preparing the accounts on a going concern basis, including KPMG LLP has been effective in its role as external auditor.
consideration of forecast plans and supporting assumptions and concluded that the Groups financial position was such that it Approach to appointing the external auditor and how continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prepared on a objectivity and independence are safeguarded relative going concern basis.
to non-audit services The Audit Committee does not currently consider it necessary to Significant issues considered in relation to the have a bespoke policy for the rotation of the external audit firm financial statements other than continuing to comply with the audit tender rules The Committee, together with management and the applying to the Group.
Groups external auditor, considered the following significant matters in relation to the financial statements and how these The Audit Committee has a previously established policy were addressed.
intended to maintain the independence and integrity of the Companys auditor when acting as auditor of the Groups Impairment of intangible assets accounts.
The policy governs the provision of audit, audit-related The Group holds significant goodwill in the business following the assurance and non-audit services provided by the auditor.
In acquisition of the DFS Group in 2010 by Advent and the DFS summary, this requires approval by the Committee for all Groups subsequent acquisition of The Sofa Workshop Limited.
individual non-audit engagements: In addition, the Group has recognised the value of the respective brands of Sofa Workshop, Dwell and DFS Spain as intangible with an expected cost in excess of 50,000: and assets.
As required by accounting standards, management have where it is expected the annual cost for all non-audit completed an annual impairment review of the carrying value of engagements will be in excess of 150,000. these assets for each cash-generating unit, and in total, details of which are set out in note 9 to the financial statements.
This The policy detailed the types of non-audit services which are review highlighted that no impairment charge was required.
prohibited as they could directly threaten auditor objectivity and independence.
It also describes permissible services, which Share-based incentives would generally be acceptable subject to the monetary limits The Group has continued to implement share-based incentive above and possible services which require Audit Committee schemes for senior management and a Save As You Earn approval on a case-by-case basis.
The valuation methods and the related assumptions for these schemes are subject to management This policy has been followed during the 52 weeks ended 30 July judgement.
There is a risk that these instruments are not valued 2016.
However, following the EU Audit reforms which came into correctly and therefore an incorrect charge is recognised in the effect from 17 June 2016, the Committee notes, for future financial statements.
The Groups external auditor has financial periods, the external auditor is now prohibited from independently audited the valuation models used by undertaking certain non-audit engagements.
In particular, this management and the assumptions used in calculating the prohibits the provision of tax services to which, historically, the Groups IFRS 2 charge.
majority of recurring non-audit engagements have related.
As a result, alternative tax advisors will be appointed in due course.
Provisions and long-term accruals Several of the Groups provisions and accruals, which primarily Independence safeguards relate to the estimated cost of the retail customer guarantees The current audit firm was appointed while the Group was under provided and claims relating to historical sales of Payment private ownership and has served for a number of years.
In Protection Insurance, continue to require significant judgement in accordance with best ethical standards, external auditors are assessing their appropriateness and quantum.
Management required to adhere to a rotation policy whereby the audit have considered the rationale and basis for these provisions and engagement partner is rotated after five years but can only serve long term accruals to assess their reasonableness and adequacy for up to two years following the initial listing of the Group.
which has been reviewed and agreed by the Groups external Therefore, our current external auditor, KPMG LLP, has auditor in conjunction with their substantive testing.
introduced a new engagement partner who, as part of the transitional process, has shadowed this years audit in Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit process preparation for the handover of responsibilities next year.
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor and considers the re-appointment of the Groups auditor, The Audit Committee notes that FTSE 250 companies must put KPMG LLP, before making a recommendation to the Board to be the audit out to tender at least every ten years and therefore put to shareholders.
As part of this responsibility, the Committee KPMG LLP may remain as external auditor until the completion of approved the audit plan for the 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016 the 2025 annual audit.
However, the Committee will continue to and reviewed the auditors findings and management consider annually the need to tender the audit for audit quality or representation letters.
Prior to recommending the appointment of independence reasons.
There are no contractual obligations in KPMG LLP at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit place that restrict the choice of statutory auditor.
Committee reviewed the extended audit process, the 45 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
indb 45 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The external auditor is also required periodically to assess In particular, a reputational risk committee, comprising whether, in its professional opinion, it is independent and those management from all relevant areas of the business, meets on a views are shared with the Audit Committee.
monthly basis to review key regulatory areas including: The Committee has authority to take independent advice as it complaints management relating to legacy payment deems appropriate in order to resolve issues on auditor protection insurance issues: independence.
No such advice has been required to date.
FCA regulated credit broking activities relating to the provision of interest-free credit to customers: Independence assessment by the Audit Committee data protection in all areas of the business: and The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the external health and safety across all business activities and premises.
auditor is not impaired and notes that the audit firms engagement partner rotation policy has been complied with.
This committee places emphasis on key metrics designed to Furthermore, the level of fees paid for non-audit services, details provide oversight of performance and highlight any potential of which are set out in note 3 to the financial statements, does detriment or risk to the Group while seeking to achieve the very not jeopardise its independence.
best customer outcomes and provide a safe environment for staff, customers and data alike.
The Committee has assessed the performance and independence of the external auditor and recommended to the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of Board the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor until the AGM internal controls and risk management and discharges its duties in 2017. in this area by: Internal audit holding regular Board meetings to consider the matters Following the recommendation to the Board, the scope and reserved for its consideration: focus of the internal audit function was reviewed during the year receiving regular management reports which provide an and a programme agreed at the October 2015 meeting.
As a assessment of key risks and controls: result, guided by a biannual review of the risk register, more scheduling annual Board reviews of strategy including reviews emphasis has been placed on: of the material risks and uncertainties facing the business: ensuring there is a clear organisational structure with defined head office functions, with direct focus on regulatory responsibilities and levels of authority: compliance and perceived areas of high risk: ensuring there are documented policies and procedures in the store environment, particularly in relation to conduct risk: place: and new store CDC openings, to ensure consistent scheduling regular Board reviews of financial budgets and implementation of operational compliance procedures: and forecasts with performance reported to the Board monthly.
the subsidiary trading companies, by integrating them into the Group internal audit programme.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Committee will continue to: Appropriate resources have been put in place to support the implemented changes.
review the risk register compiled and maintained by senior managers within the Group and question and challenge Internal audit reports continue to be issued to key management where necessary: highlighting significant issues and making relevant regularly review the system of financial and accounting recommendations.
High level reporting is made to the Operating controls: and Board on a monthly basis, and to the Audit Committee on a report to the Board on the risk and control culture within the biannual basis, ensuring that appropriate remedial actions are in Group.
place to address unsatisfactory performance.
In respect of the Groups financial reporting, the Finance Internal control and risk management Department is responsible for preparing the Group financial The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal controls statements using a well-established process and ensuring that for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with accounting policies are in accordance with International Financial FRC guidance, it carries out such a review at least annually, Reporting Standards.
All financial information published by the covering all material controls including financial, operational and Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
compliance controls and risk management systems.
There have been no changes in the Companys internal control The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than during the financial year under review that have materially eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against control over financial reporting.
The Group has operating policies and controls in place covering a range of issues including financial reporting, capital expenditure, business continuity and information technology and appropriate employee policies.
These policies are designed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and govern the preparation of financial statements.
indb 46 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, is satisfied that an effective system of internal controls and risk management is in place which enable the Group to identify, evaluate and manage key risks and which accord with the guidance published by the FRC.
These processes have been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
Further details of specific material risks and uncertainties facing the business can be found on pages 16 to 19.
Whistleblowing The Group is committed to the highest standards of openness, honesty, integrity and accountability and, as a result, has a whistleblowing policy in place.
This policy is intended to make employees or third parties aware that they should report any serious concerns or suspicions about any wrongdoing or malpractice on the part of any employee of the Group.
Examples include fraud, breakdown in internal controls, misleading customers, bribery, dishonesty, corruption and breaches of data protection or health and safety.
This facility was reviewed during the year and it was agreed that appropriate arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation of such matters.
During the year, there were two instances of whistleblowing both of which were fully investigated and addressed in accordance with the policy.
Control environment The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral values and professionalism in all its activities.
The Group has policies in place for: anti-bribery: equal opportunities: and gifts and entertainment.
Accountability The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
The responsibilities of the Directors and external auditor are set out on page 63.
As set out in the Directors report, the Directors consider the Groups business to be a going concern.
Julie Southern Chairman of the Audit Committee 5 October 2016 47 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
