Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:17 Page 52 Dignity plc 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Nomination Committee report The Committee successfully recruited a new Non-Executive Director.
Peter Hindley, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, All the Non-Executive Directors are appointed for two year On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2016 terms which may then be renewed up to maximum of nine Nomination Committee report.
years service in accordance with the independence guidelines in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During 2016 the Nomination Committee the Committee consisted of me as Chairman, Alan McWalter Senior Tenure Length of tenure at 30 December 2016 years Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft, David Blackwood and Name 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Martin Pexton who subsequently resigned from the Board on David Blackwood 3 February 2017 and was replaced by Mary McNamara who joined on 1 March 2017.
Each of whom are independent Alan McWalter Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary, Richard Jane Ashcroft Portman, acted as Secretary to the Committee when requested by me to do so.
All members are considered to be independent Mary McNamara by the Group having no day to day involvement with the Group.
The Committee, and by extension the full Board, continue to During the year the Committee carried out the following tasks.
support the spirit of Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
In 2011 we set a goal of 20 per cent of Board positions to be Kept under review the structure, size and composition of the filled by women by 2015.
This objective was achieved in 2012.
Board including ensuring that it has the necessary skills, However, following the resignation of Ishbel Macpherson in knowledge and experience: 2015 and the appointment of David Blackwood that percentage fell to 11 per cent.
However we remained fully committed to Considered succession planning in respect of all the Directors increasing the proportion of women serving on the Board and senior managers: of Dignity back to 20 per cent or higher whilst continuing to Identified and nominated for approval by the full Board a remain mindful of the overall need to recruit the very best suitable candidate to fill the vacancy arising upon the candidates regardless of gender.
With the appointment of resignation from the Board of Martin Pexton: Mary McNamara I am pleased to advise that percentage is Kept under review the leadership needs of the Group, both once again 22 per cent.
The Group will continue to encourage executive and non-executive: similar diversity in senior management positions and throughout the workforce.
Diversity is outlined in more detail Reviewed the time required from the Non-Executive Directors: in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages and 33 and 34.
Reviewed the results of the Board performance evaluation that relate to the composition of the Board.
I am also pleased to confirm that the Group will continue to publish the details on corporate diversity suggested in The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Recommendation 2 of the Davies Report and report on our Groups corporate website at www.
compliance Recommendation 4 and appointment process Recommendation 5 in our Annual Report.
The Committee met twice in 2016.
At these meetings the principal duties of the Committee were formally considered During the period, the Board completed an external performance and no issues or concerns were identified.
The members of the evaluation of itself and its Committees.
The results of this are Committees attendance record is set out on page 43.
I report discussed on page 42. on the Committees proceedings at the next full Board meeting and the minutes of those meetings are made available to all Finally, the Companys Articles provide that all Directors retire members of the Board.
by rotation with one third being subject to re-election each year.
However we continue to adopt the provisions of the UK Subsequent to my letter in the 2015 Annual Report Martin Corporate Governance Code such that all Directors offer Pexton indicated that he intended to step down from the themselves for re-election annually.
The Nomination Committee therefore retained the executive search agency Norman Broadbent to This Nomination Committee report was reviewed and approved provide a list of both male and female high calibre candidates by the Board on 8 March 2017. with the appropriate skills and experience to not only be a Non-Executive Director of Dignity but also have the ability to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in the future.
Peter Hindley I am pleased to advise that at the end of a rigorous recruitment Chairman of the Nomination Committee process we appointed Mary McNamara, her biographical details are on page 41 of this Annual Report.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
