Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:17 Page 49 Dignity plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Audit Committee report The Committee works with the full Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
David Blackwood, Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Consider the financial statements and recommend to the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my second Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken report as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the Membership and Process performance, business model and strategy of the Group: The following Directors served on the Audit Committee Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements the Committee during 2016: me as Chairman, Alan contained in the financial statements: McWalter Senior Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft and Review the systems of accounting, internal control and Martin Pexton each of whom are independent Non-Executive risk management: Directors.
Martin Pexton resigned from the Board and this Committee on 3 February 2017 and was replaced by Mary Monitor and review the significant risks identified by the McNamara who was appointed to the Board and this Group as well as the management and mitigation of Committee on 1 March 2017.
All other Committee members those risks: served through to the date of this report.
Oversee and maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditors and review the effectiveness, The Board is satisfied that I have, as Chairman of the independence and objectivity of the external audit process: Committee, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit I report the Committees deliberations at the next Board function: review the internal audit plan: all internal audit meeting and the minutes of each meeting are made available reports: review and monitor managements responses to the to all members of the Board.
findings and recommendations of the internal audit function: and maintain an effective relationship with the Head of The Committee met three times during 2016: in February prior Internal Audit: and to the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2015: prior Monitor and review the arrangements by which employees to the release of the Interim Announcement for 2016 in July: can, in confidence, raise concerns about any possible and again in December 2016 immediately prior to the end of improprieties in financial and other matters such as the financial period.
The Committee also met in March 2017 compliance with the Bribery Act.
prior to the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2016.
The attendance records of the members is shown on page 43.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups corporate The external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, the Chairman, website at www.
the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, Operations Director, the Corporate Services Director, the Head of Internal Audit and Activities in the period the Financial Controller have attended meetings by invitation.
The key activities of the Committee during the period were: The Committee holds a private session with the Lead Partner It reviewed the financial statements in the 2015 and 2016 from our external auditors without management present at Annual Report and Accounts and the 2016 Interim Report.
In addition, I, as Chairman of the Audit As part of this review the Committee received reports from Committee, met with the Lead Partner a total of two times the external auditors on their audit of that Annual Report through the year to provide the opportunity for open and their review of the interim results.
It also reviewed the communication and the free flow of any concerns relating both Preliminary and Interim Announcements made to the to the openness, transparency and general engagement of London Stock Exchange: management with the audit process as well as to understand EYs assessment of key judgements as they arise.
At all meetings it reviewed reports made by Internal Audit which included the review of progress against the plan for Role the period, the results of principal audits and other significant The Committee works with the full Board to fulfil its oversight findings, adequacy of managements responses and the responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: timeliness of resolution of actions arising: Review and agreement of the three year rolling plan for Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other Internal audit: information provided to shareholders to ensure they represent a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups position, performance, strategy and prospects: PDF Page: 1-49 Dignity.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:17 Page 50 Dignity plc 47 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 A six month review and recommendation of formal adoption The Audit Committee, on an annual basis, formally considers to the full Board of the Risk Register.
This is part of a formal the performance and independence of the external auditors.
ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing The formal annual review has been completed in the first the significant risks faced by the Group.
The principal risks quarter of 2017.
The Committee was, based on that review, facing the Group are considered on pages 29 to 31 of the fully satisfied with EYs performance in 2016 and a resolution Annual Report: to re-appoint them as external auditors will be tabled at the AGM on 8 June 2017.
Formally review the going concern assumptions adopted in the preparation of the 2015 and 2016 financial statements: The Committee confirms that during the year the Group has Completion of a comprehensive review of Dignitys risk complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services control framework and its linkage to the Risk Register and for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use Viability Statement included in the Strategic Report on of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee page 31: Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
The Committee discussed the annual external audit plan in advance of the period end with the external auditors, which Policy on non-audit fees addressed the planned audit approach to key accounting The Group has a rigorous and comprehensive policy on the use areas: and of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The policy states The Committee discussed the auditors views on key that non-audit fees are limited to no more than 50 per cent judgement areas and audit findings relating to key accounting of the annual audit fee unless there are exceptional matters at the conclusion of the audit.
circumstances, which are defined as: Areas that have been discussed and considered by the The work necessitates the use of the auditor for regulatory Committee in relation to the 2016 Annual Report are: reasons: and Their use represents a material time cost benefit to the Pensions We examined the assumptions used in the Group in conducting a transaction.
actuarial valuation for the defined benefit pension scheme which include the discount rate, the inflation rate and The policy also precludes the use of the external auditors for mortality.
We considered the consistency of the basis of certain types of work.
All such work will be fully analysed in calculation of the assumptions used with 2015, and agreed the Annual Report between tax compliance and advisory, non with the judgements reached by management and confirmed statutory acquisition related services and statutory services.
we had fully complied with IAS19.
Audit Committee approval is required prior to the work being commenced and further disclosure of the works and the Acquisition of five crematoria from Funeral Services Limited.
reasons for it being performed by the external auditors will be We considered the appropriateness of the accounting included in the following Annual Report.
The Audit Committee treatment of the acquisition, including the fair value of assets does not envisage that non-audit fees payable to the external acquired and the consequential allocation of goodwill.
auditors will exceed 50 per cent in the future, other than in exceptional circumstances.
Pre-arranged funeral plans trusts The Committee considered the on-going treatment of the Trusts under IFRS 10 along with In the period, EY undertook no non-audit work on behalf the additional disclosure requirements of IFRS 12. of the Group except for their review of the Interim Report for 2016, completion of turnover certificates, a financial covenants External audit compliance certificate and certifications required as part of the The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, Groups membership renewal of the FPA.
Total fees of 42,000 implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on were charged for the non-audit services compared to 288,000 external audit.
This policy assigns responsibility for monitoring for audit services.
objectivity, independence and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee with day to The Committee is confident that the objectivity and day responsibility assigned to the Finance Director, Steve independence of the external auditors is not compromised Whittern.
The Committee also retains responsibility for the by reason of non-audit work, not least because such work will appointment and removal of the external auditors, who are generally be undertaken by other professional firms.
statement of independence from EY has been received in respect of 2016.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:17 Page 51 Dignity plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Audit Committee report continued Audit partner rotation Consistent with the Auditing Practices Board requirements, EY audit partners serve for a maximum of five years on listed clients.
This is the third year that Simon ONeill is Dignitys audit partner.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and is satisfied with their effectiveness.
The Audit Committee has also kept under review the independence of EY and has been satisfied at all times that any threats arising to their independence have been subject to appropriate safeguards.
Internal Audit The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Chief Executive and the Audit Committee.
It coordinates the completion of self-assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the Head Office function and any area where a Director or the Audit Committee requests a review.
During 2016 as in 2015, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors formally to review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors, EY, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee at every full meeting and met on a one to one basis with me, as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on two occasions in the period.
Whistleblowing A formal process, established via the Committee, exists by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
This ensures arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action.
Whistleblowing reports are formally reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee or more frequently should the need arise.
This Audit Committee report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 8 March 2017.
David Blackwood Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 March 2017 PDF Page: 1-49 Dignity.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
