Executive Committee Paul Geddes chairs the Executive Committee.
In addition to Paul Geddes, Mike Holliday-Williams and John Reizenstein, the committee comprises the following: Jonathan Greenwood, Humphrey Tomlinson, Managing Director of Commercial General Counsel joined 2000 joined 2011 Experience and qualifications Experience and qualifications Jonathan has previously held roles at HBOS, MBNA and Pinnacle Humphrey was previously Group Legal Director at RSA and is a and has over 30 years insurance and financial services industry solicitor with over 25 years experience.
He joined the Group as Product and Pricing Director for advising on corporate and commercial matters, steering corporate UK partnerships.
After the Group acquired Churchill, Jonathan became transactions in the UK and internationally, managing legal risk, and Commercial Director and then Managing Director of the Groups dealing with corporate governance issues.
Before joining RSA, he household and life businesses.
Jonathan was appointed Managing worked at the City law firm, Ashurst Morris Crisp.
He is a graduate Director of Commercial in 2009. of the University of Oxford.
Simon Linares, Jos Vazquez, Group Human Resources Director Chief Risk Officer joined 2014 joined 2012 C Experience and qualifications Experience and qualifications Simon was previously Group HR Director for O2, and responsible for Jos was previously Global Chief Risk Officer and Group Chief all of Telefonica global digital businesses.
Before this, he held various Actuary at HSBC Insurance.
Before joining HSBC, Jos worked for senior global HR roles at Diageo, including responsibility for Spain, Zurich Insurance, first in its London Market Operations, then as Chief Africa and several UK-based leadership positions.
Before moving into Actuary International Business Division Asia, Latin America and Africa HR, Simon held several commercial business roles in the fast-moving and lastly as Chief Actuary in the UK.
Jos is a Mathematics graduate consumer goods and financial services sectors.
from Brunel University and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Steve Maddock, Chief Operating Officer joined 2010 Experience and qualifications Steve was previously Director of Strategic and Technical Claims at RSA.
He has over 20 years insurance industry experience, including roles as Director of Claims and Customer Service at Capita, and as Director of Operations at AMP.
He became Chief Operating Officer in 2016, having previously been the Managing Director of Claims, Business Services and Technology Services.
Steve holds an MBA from the University of Reading, and is Chairman of the Motor Insurers Bureau and Insurance Database Services Limited.
52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 V9.2 52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016
