30 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Internal Control and Risk Management The Board is committed to protecting and enhancing Diplomas The detailed risk evaluation process begins in the operating reputation and assets, while safeguarding the interests of businesses with an annual exercise undertaken by management shareholders.
It has overall responsibility for the Groups system to identify and document the significant strategic, operational, of risk management and internal control.
financial and accounting risks facing the businesses.
This process is both robust and challenging and ensures risks are Diplomas businesses are affected by a number of risks and identified and monitored and management controls are uncertainties.
These may be impacted by internal and external embedded in the business operations.
factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of the risks are similar to those found by comparable companies in terms of The Group uses a quantitative method to determine a Risk Score scale and operations.
for each risk which is based on both the likelihood of each identified risk occurring and the consequence of an adverse Our approach outcome and its impact on the business.
Each business will then Risk management and maintenance of appropriate systems identify processes established to control each risk and minimise of control to manage risk is the responsibility of the Board and its potential impact.
is integral to the ability of the Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The Board has developed a framework of risk The risk assessments from each of the operating businesses management which is used to establish the culture of effective are then considered by the Board who evaluate the principal risk management throughout the business by identifying risks of the Group with reference to the Groups strategy and and monitoring the material risks, setting risk appetite and operating environment.
determining the overall risk tolerance of the Group.
This framework of risk management has been further enhanced Our principal risks and uncertainties this year and additional processes have been developed which Set out in this section of the Strategic Report are the principal will assist the Board to monitor and assess the principal risks risks and uncertainties affecting the Group which have been throughout the year.
determined by the Board, based on a robust risk evaluation process described above, to have the potential to have the The Groups risk management systems are monitored by greatest impact on the Groups future viability.
These risks are the Audit Committee, under delegation from the Board.
similar to those reported last year, although with some The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the movement on the relative ranking of these risks.
effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group.
An internal audit function has been established for many The risks are each classified as strategic, operational and years to provide independent assurance that the Groups risk financial or accounting.
The Groups decentralised operations management, governance and internal control processes with different Sectors and geographical spread reduces the are operating effectively.
impact of these principal risks.
Identifying and monitoring material risks The Board has also considered the risks associated with the UKs Material risks are identified through a detailed analysis of Brexit vote to leave the European Union and this is explained individual processes and procedures bottom up approach further on page 29 in the Finance Review.
and a consideration of the strategy and operating environment of the Group top down approach.
Viability Statement Diploma PLC The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable businesses and about the acceptable performance of existing expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet businesses.
A robust financial model of the Group is built on a its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years to business-by-business basis and the metrics for the Groups KPIs September 2019.
The Directors assessment has been made are reviewed for the assessment period.
These metrics are also with reference to the resilience of the Group and its strong subject to sensitivity analysis which includes flexing a number financial position, the Groups current strategy, the Boards of the main assumptions, namely, future revenue growth, gross risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are margins, operating costs and working capital management.
managed, as described in the Strategic Report.
The results of flexing these assumptions, both individually and in aggregate, are used to determine whether additional bank The Group has a broad spread of customers and suppliers facilities will be required during this period.
across different geographic areas and independent market sectors, often secured with longer term agreements.
The The Directors confirm that this review and analysis also Group is supported by a robust balance sheet and strong considers the principal risks facing the Group, as described on operational cash flows.
pages 31 to 33 and the potential impacts these risks would have on the Groups business model, future performance, solvency The assessment period of three years has been chosen as it is or liquidity over the assessment period.
The Board considers consistent with the Boards triennial review of the Groups that the diverse nature of the Sectors and geographies in which strategy at which the prospects of each business are discussed: the Group operates acts significantly to mitigate the impact any assumptions are made regarding entering into new markets of these risks might have on the Group.
and geographies, about future growth rates of the existing Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 31 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Key Increase No change Strategic risk Downturn in major markets Decrease Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses The businesses identify key market drivers and operate can have a significant impact on performance.
This year, monitor the trends and forecasts, as well as a number of geopolitical and economic factors have caused maintaining close relationships with key customers uncertainty in our principal markets and caused volatility in the who may give an early warning of slowing demand.
The effects of these changes can be seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, due to reduced Changes to cost levels and inventories can then be or delayed demand for products and services, or margin made in a measured way to mitigate the effects.
pressures due to increased competition.
Significant global events are closely monitored to A number of characteristics of the Groups businesses moderate determine any potential impact on key markets.
the impact of economic and business cycles on the Group as a whole: The Groups businesses operate in three differing Sectors with different cyclical characteristics and across a number of geographic markets.
The businesses offer specialised products and services, which are often specific to their application: this offers a degree of protection against customers quickly switching business to achieve a better price.
A high proportion of the Groups revenues comprises consumable products which are purchased as part of the customers operating expenditure, rather than through capital budgets.
In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance and refurbishment applications, rather than original equipment manufacture.
Strategic risk Loss of key suppliers Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed business if a major supplier decides to cancel a distribution with suppliers with change of control clauses, agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a company which has where possible, included in contracts for protection its own distribution channels in the relevant market.
There is or compensation in the event of acquisition.
also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with individuals at many levels of the supplier Currently no single supplier represents more than 10% of Group organisation, together with regular review meetings revenue and only six single suppliers represent more than 2% and adherence to contractual terms.
Regular review of inventory levels.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over many years and a strong degree of interdependence has been Bundling and kitting of products and provision of established.
The average length of the principal supplier added value services.
relationships in each of the Sectors is over ten years.
Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the contingency planning.
volume of activity generally ensures continuity of supply, when there is shortage of product.
Strategic risk Supplier strategy change Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change The success of the businesses depends significantly on The businesses work very closely with each of representing suppliers whose products are recognised in the their suppliers and regularly attend industry marketplace as the leading competitive brand.
If suppliers exhibitions to keep abreast of the latest technology fail to support these products with new development and and market requirements trends.
The businesses technologies, then our businesses will suffer from reduced also meet with key customers on a regular basis demand for their products and services.
to gain insight into their product requirements and market developments.
Each of the Groups businesses supply established and leading products and related services to customers operating in specialised markets.
For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 32 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Internal Control and Risk Management continued Strategic risk Loss of key customer s Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change The loss of one or more major customers can be a material risk.
Specific large customers are important to individual operating businesses and a high level of effort is The nature of the Groups businesses is such that there is not a invested in ensuring that these customers are high level of dependence on any individual customer and no retained and encouraged not to switch to single customer represents more than 5% of Sector revenue or another supplier.
more than 2% of Group revenue.
In addition to providing high levels of customer service and value added activities, close integration is established where possible with customers systems and processes.
Operational risk Product liability Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may Technically qualified personnel and control systems fail in service, which could lead to a claim under product liability.
are in place to ensure products meet quality The businesses, in their terms and conditions of sale with requirements.
The Groups businesses are required customers, will typically mirror the terms and conditions of to undertake Product Risk assessments and purchase from the suppliers.
In this way the liability can be comprehensive Supplier Quality Assurance limited and subrogated to the supplier.
The Group has also established Group-wide product liability insurance which However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our provides worldwide umbrella insurance cover of business as a party to the claim and the business may be 20m across all Sectors.
exposed to legal costs and potential damages if the claim succeeds and the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for whatever The Groups businesses may also elect not to reason.
Product liability insurance can be limited in terms of its supply products if they are not fully confident that scope of insurable events, such as product recall.
the products will meet the demands of the operating environment.
The Groups businesses have undergone further product liability training during the year and are continually reviewed to demonstrate compliance with Group policies and procedures relating to product liability.
Operational risk Loss of key personnel Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing Contractual terms such as notice periods and management teams in the operating businesses, committed to non-compete clauses can mitigate the risk in the the success of their respective businesses.
As a result, the loss short term.
However, more successful initiatives focus on ensuring a challenging work environment of key personnel can have an impact on performance, for a limited time period.
The Group places very high importance on planning the development, The average length of service of the ca.
90 senior managers in motivation and reward for key managers in the the Group is 11 years and for all personnel in the Group is operating businesses including: consistently over six years.
Ensuring a challenging working environment where managers feel they have control over, and responsibility for their businesses.
Establishing management development programmes to ensure a broad base of talented managers.
Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term cash incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources and strategic support for managers to pursue ambitious growth plans.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 33 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Key Increase No change Financial risk Foreign currency Translational exposure Decrease Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency rates will The Group operates across a number of affect the Groups results.
The Group operates internationally diverse geographies but does not hedge and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various translational exposure.
currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro.
The net assets of the Groups operations outside the UK are also exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
During the year ended 30 September 2016, ca.
75% of the Groups revenue and adjusted operating profits were earned in currencies other than UK sterling.
In comparison to the prior year, the net effect of currency translation was to increase revenue by 13.8m and increase adjusted operating profit by 2.7m.
It is estimated that a strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the currencies in which the Group does business, would reduce adjusted operating profit before tax by approximately 4.5m 7%, due to currency translation.
Currency exposures also arise from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations.
At 30 September 2016, the Groups non-UK sterling trading capital employed in overseas businesses was 199.0m 2015: 171.4m, which represented 77% of the Groups trading capital employed.
It is estimated that a strengthening of UK sterling of 10% against all the non-UK sterling capital employed would reduce shareholders funds by18.1m.
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of overseas earnings and of year-end exchange rates used in the translation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by the Group, are shown in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Financial risk Foreign currency Transactional exposure Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change The Groups UK businesses are exposed to foreign currency risk The Groups businesses may hedge up to 80% on those purchases that are denominated in a currency other of forecast being a maximum of 18 months than their local currency, principally US dollars, Euros and foreign currency exposures using forward foreign Japanese yen.
The Groups Canadian and Australian businesses exchange contracts.
are also exposed to a similar risk as the majority of their purchases are denominated in US dollars and Euros.
The Groups The Group finance department monitors rolling US businesses do not have any material foreign currency monthly forecasts of currency exposures.
The Group classifies its forward foreign exchange contracts, which hedge forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges and state them at fair value at each reporting period.
Accounting risk Inventory obsolescence Risk description & assessment Mitigation Change Working capital management is critical to success in specialised Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised industrial businesses as this has a major impact on cash flow.
by active management of inventory levels based on The principal risk to working capital is in inventory obsolescence sales forecasts and regular cycle counts.
Where necessary, a provision is made to cover both The charge against operating profit in respect of old or surplus excess inventory and potential obsolescence.
inventory in the year was 1.1m but inventories are generally not subject to technological obsolescence.
