38 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance John Nicholas Chairman We have an ongoing objective to ensure that the Board has an We made good progress this year opportunity to meet with management and employees of our businesses by holding at least one scheduled Board meeting with delivering a number of the each year at one of the Groups operating companies.
In March objectives we identified at our we visited the Clarendon facility in Leicester during which we received presentations from management of the Clarendon Strategy Meeting held in 2015. specialty fasteners businesses and had an opportunity to talk with employees who work at this facility.
Further visits to our businesses have been planned for the next financial year.
Members of Board Attendance Succession planning continues to be a principal focus of the Board.
Following Iain Hendersons retirement from the Board Chairman earlier this year, good progress has been made by the Chief John Nicholas 7 7 Executive Officer in setting up a formal Executive Management Independent nonExecutive Directors Group comprising a small group of senior managers drawn from across the businesses.
The Board is encouraged by the breadth Marie-Louise Clayton retired on 16 November 2015 1 1 of experience and challenge this team has brought to the Andy Smith 7 7 Groups operations and look forward to continuing this Charles Packshaw 7 7 development in the future.
Anne Thorburn 7 7 Executive Directors The coming financial year brings a busy work load to the Board with Anne Thorburn leading the Audit Committees audit tender Iain Henderson retired on 20 January 2016 2 2 process as we approach the tenth year with Deloitte LLP as Nigel Lingwood 7 7 Company auditor and with Andy Smith commencing the formal Bruce Thompson 7 7 triennial review of the Boards policies governing Directors remuneration.
The result of the audit tender is likely to be Dear Shareholder announced later in 2017 and the proposed policies on Directors This year has been a much quieter and more stable year in terms Remuneration will be put to shareholders for approval at the of Governance activities after the past two years during which the AGM in January 2018.
Board was substantially refreshed and more formal Governance policies and processes developed and implemented.
Finally, as ever I do hope that as shareholders in the Company you will be able to find time to attend our AGM on Wednesday, This period of stability has provided an opportunity for me 18 January 2017.
It provides an excellent opportunity to meet the to focus on both the principal tasks and objectives that arose Board of Directors and challenge them on any matters you feel from the Boards Strategic Review held in June last year and the are important to the development of the Company.
recommendations that arose from the external evaluation of the Board carried out in September last year.
Similarly, both John Nicholas Anne Thorburn and Andy Smith have this year settled into their 21 November 2016 new roles as Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committee respectively, following their appointments last year.
In June this year, the scheduled Board meeting was largely devoted to reviewing the progress achieved to date in addressing the key objectives and actions agreed at our Strategy Meeting held the previous year.
One of these tasks related to the greater emphasis to be focused on finding high quality acquisitions and it was therefore very encouraging to have completed three new acquisitions this year which have both broadened the Groups activities into new geographies and market sectors.
Overall I am satisfied that we have made good progress this year with delivering a number of the objectives we identified at our Strategy Meeting and we hope to continue with this next year.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 39 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Compliance with the Code Diploma PLC is required to state whether it has complied with The Companys auditor Deloitte LLP, is required to review the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the whether the above statement reflects the Companys Code.
The previous Code published in September 2014 was compliance with the Provisions of the Code specified for their revised with minor amendments and reissued by the Financial review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to Reporting Council in April 2016.
Set out on pages 39 to 61 is an report if it does not reflect such compliance.
explanation of how the Company has complied with the Main Principles of the Code.
The Board confirms that throughout the financial year, the Company applied all of the Principles set out in sections A to E of the Code for the period under review.
The Board also confirms that it complies with all of the Provisions of the Code as at the date of this Report.
Framework of Corporate Governance The Board Audit Committee The Diploma PLC Board is accountable to the Companys Chaired by Anne Thorburn Number of meetings in the year: six shareholders for standards of Governance across the Groups businesses.
Certain strategic decision-making powers and authorities of the Company are reserved as Role of the Committee matters for the Board.
The principal matters reserved The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting for the Board are set out below.
Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
processes, audit internal and external, internal control systems and risk management procedures and also monitors issues Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of the relating to fraud, anti-bribery and corruption, sanctions and whistleblowing.
Nomination Committee Chaired by John Nicholas Approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
Number of meetings in the year: two All new bank facilities, or significant changes to Role of the Committee existing facilities.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identifies Assessment and approval of the principal risks facing and nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board the Group and how they are being managed.
subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Approval of the Viability Statement.
Remuneration Committee Chaired by Andy Smith Maintaining sound internal control and risk Number of meetings in the year: four management systems.
Role of the Committee Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments.
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board, the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and Succession planning and appointments to the Board.
The remuneration of the non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Review of the Groups overall corporate governance Directors.
The Committee takes into account the business arrangements and reviewing the performance of the Board strategy of the Group and how remuneration policy should and its Committees annually.
reflect and support that strategy.
Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and the terms of reference of all Committees of the Board.
Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committee which will consider them in accordance with its terms of reference.
Details of each Committees terms of reference are available on the Diploma PLC website at www.
For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 40 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance continued Leadership To ensure that non-Executive Directors can constructively Board composition challenge and support proposals on strategy, the Board has The Board currently comprises a Chairman, two Executive adopted a process of reviewing and approving the agreed Directors and three independent non-Executive Directors.
The strategy for the Company on a three-yearly basis.
The Board non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and met for a formal review of the Companys strategy at the end of the details of their respective appointments are set out in the June 2015 in Zurich, Switzerland.
The Board received a number Remuneration Committee Report on page 53.
The biographical of presentations and had thorough and challenging reviews with details of the Board members are set out on pages 36 and 37.
In 2016, the Board reviewed progress against the objectives set at the Group strategy session and will John Nicholas is Chairman of the Board and the Nomination undertake the next formal review in late 2017 or early 2018.
Each of the three independent non-Executive Directors performs additional roles: Charles Packshaw serves Meetings of the Board as Senior Independent Director, Andy Smith is Chairman of the The Board has this year increased its scheduled meetings in the Remuneration Committee and Anne Thorburn is Chairman financial year to seven, largely to provide more time to address of the Audit Committee.
the substantial additional regulatory matters that it is now required to consider on a more formal basis.
The Board will meet Activities of the Board more frequently if required.
The Companys governance framework is set out on page 39 together with a summary of the formal terms of reference.
The The Board ensures that at least one of the scheduled meetings core activities of the Board and its Committees are planned on is held on site at one of the Groups facilities, where the Board an annual basis and this framework forms the basic structure has an opportunity to both receive presentations from local within which the Board operates.
management and meet employees of that business.
In June 2016 the Boards scheduled meeting reviewed the Groups The Boards terms of reference also set out the separate and strategic objectives identified at the strategy session held in distinct roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
2015 and the Chief Executive Officer provided an update on the progress achieved in implementing these objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership and governance of the Board and ensures that the Directors have Each Director is expected to attend all meetings of the Board or an understanding of the views of the Companys major Committees of which they are a member.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and management from across the Group and advisors attend certain meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
ensures that there is a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board and Committee meetings.
This exposure to the members of senior management The Board appoints the Chief Executive Officer and monitors his from across the businesses helps enhance the Boards understanding of the businesses, the implementation of performance in leading the Company and providing operational and performance management in delivering the agreed strategy.
strategy and the changing dynamics of the markets in which The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing, for the the businesses operate.
Boards approval, appropriate values, culture and standards Effectiveness to guide all activities undertaken by the Company and for maintaining good relationships and communications Independent nonExecutive Directors with investors.
The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief affect, a Directors judgement.
The Chairman, John Nicholas Executive Officer the responsibility for such activities to a was considered independent by the Board both at the time of specified level of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels his appointment as Director on 1 June 2013 and as Chairman on 21 January 2015.
In accordance with the Code, the ongoing test covering capital expenditure which can be exercised by the Chief Executive Officer.
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are of independence for the Chairman is not relevant.
referred to the Board for approval.
All non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments at appointment.
The ability of individual Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, internal control and risk management.
Directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of their responsibilities is considered as part of the Directors annual The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors evaluation process, overseen by the Chairman.
Any issues concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with and Officers against the costs of defending themselves in legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect by the Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by the of any damages resulting from those proceedings.
Each non-Executive Director is required to inform the Board of The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to the extent permitted by law.
Neither the insurance nor the any changes to their other appointments.
indemnity provides cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
During the year, the Chairman has also held meetings with the non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
The appointments of non-Executive Directors are subject to formal, rigorous and transparent procedures which are described more fully in the Nomination Committee Report which is set out on page 47.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 41 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Diversity Following the externally led evaluation of the effectiveness of The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains the Board carried out in 2015, the Board this year completed its talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further annual evaluation of the Boards effectiveness using internal enhance the success of the Group.
In that culture, diversity resources.
The exercise encompassed an evaluation of the Board across a range of criteria is valued, primarily in relation to skills, as a whole, the Board Committees and of individual Directors.
knowledge and experience and also in other criteria such as gender and ethnicity.
The Board has considered setting The externally led evaluation of the Board carried out in 2015 objectives in relation to diversity, but does not believe that such covered seven topics: Board role and responsibilities: oversight: objectives are appropriate at this juncture, given the relatively arrangements for Board meetings: support of the Board: Board small Board.
The Board will however keep this matter under composition: working together and outcome and achievements.
review, particularly in light of Board succession and development.
The facilitator of this evaluation concluded last year that the Information and professional development Boards effectiveness was strong with an average score of 73% An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed across each of the seven topics assessed.
The facilitator also at ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding recommended a small number of items that the Board should and awareness of the Groups core processes, its people and address with the aim of strengthening the Boards effectiveness.
The non-Executive Directors awareness of the The principal matters were: businesses is further developed through periodic visits to the the Board should formally review the Groups controls over principal business locations and presentations to the Board by senior management of the businesses.
In 2016, the Board cyber-risk on a more regular basis.
During the year, the Board received presentations from senior management of the received a Paper which set out both the risks that existed Clarendon specialty fasteners business.
across the Groups businesses in connection with cybercrime and the controls that had been set up at the larger Following the new appointments to the Board last year, a business clusters to mitigate this risk.
The Board also agreed managed induction programme was set up which included a to appoint a member of senior management who would have visit by each of the new non-Executive Directors to the major responsibility for monitoring and reporting to the Board any significant potential cyber-attacks on the Groups businesses.
business units in each of the Groups Sectors where they have an opportunity to meet with senior management in these the Board should target a timetable for circulating businesses.
Meetings were also held individually between each Board papers and minutes to all members of the Board.
of the non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors and A revised timetable has now been agreed and has been put into operation.
with some of the principal advisors to the Company.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Officer The internal Board evaluation which was carried out in August and the Group Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring 2016 was less rigorous than the externally led evaluation carried out last year.
The results of the review were satisfactory and that Directors are supplied with information in a timely manner that is in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to there were no negative performance issues identified from the discharge their duties.
In the normal course of business, the evaluation that related to individual Directors or the Chief Executive Officer gives an oral report to the Board at each performance of the Board Committees.
meeting and information is provided and reported through formal Board reports that include information on operational The issues identified in this evaluation were more broadly matters and strategic developments.
There are also reports focused on matters that the Board believed should be further on the performance of the Groups businesses, financial developed for discussion at meetings of the Board.
These matters included: performance relative to the budget, risk management, business development and investor relations.
competitive factors facing the principal businesses in each The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at of the Sectors: potential impact of innovative or disruptive technologies Board meetings and where appropriate, briefings as necessary are provided on various elements of corporate governance and on the Groups activities: and other regulatory issues.
strategies to manage the Group in a post Brexit and potentially lower growth environment.
The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and The Board will report on progress made with implementing ensures compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have these recommendations in next years Annual Report access to his advice and a procedure also exists for Directors &Accounts.
to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The The Senior Independent Director, together with the nonappointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary Executive Directors also carried out a performance evaluation and his remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
of the Chairman, having taken account of the views of all of theDirectors.
Board evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of effectiveness Reelection using specially designed evaluation forms and under the All Directors of the Board are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment direction of the Chairman.
This exercise encompasses an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, as well by the Board and in accordance with the Code, all Directors as of each of the Committees and individuals.
Feedback on will also stand for re-election annually at the AGM.
Board performances is presented by the Chairman to the Board and actions and objectives are agreed for the following year.
aspx 42 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance continued Conflicts of interest Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer and Directors are subject to a statutory duty under the Companies Group Finance Director through presentations made twice a Act 2006 the Act to avoid a situation where they have, or year on the operating and financial performance of the Group could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly and its longer term strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer and could conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Act allows Group Finance Director generally deal with questions from directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and individual shareholders.
potential conflicts where appropriate, where the Articles of Association the Articles contain a provision to this effect.
The Groups website contains up-to-date information for TheAct also allows the Articles to contain other provisions for shareholders which includes the Annual Report & Accounts dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of the past seven years, current and historic share price ofduty.
information, news releases, and presentations to analysts and key shareholders.
The website also contains factual data on the Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest continue Groups businesses, products and services.
to operate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers are being exercised properly in accordance with the The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the Companys Articles.
views of institutional shareholders and an independent insight is sought through research carried out twice a year by the Charles Packshaw, the Companys Senior Independent Director, Companys advisors, focused on both investors and analysts.
is also Head of UK Advisory and Managing Director in HSBCs global banking businesses which is one of the principal banks Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key that provide bank facilities and ancillary banking services to the issues and the opportunity is available on request for Group and its businesses.
The Board remains satisfied that this shareholders to meet the Chairman or Senior Independent Director, separately from the Executive Directors.
relationship does not provide a conflict of interest.
Accountability Electronic communications to shareholders include the Notice The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report of the AGM which is sent at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on each & Accounts taken as a whole present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group and provides the separate issue and for each resolution, proxy appointment information necessary to shareholders to assess the Groups forms provide shareholders with the option to vote in advance position and performance, business model and strategy.
is achieved through this Annual Report & Accounts, the Annual Review and through other periodic financial statements and All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the announcements.
Companys AGM, when the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Groups performance during the year, together with a statement on current trading conditions.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic The Chairman of the Board and of the Remuneration and Audit objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and Committees are available to answer questions at the meeting.
The Board is also responsible for The Board has resolved, in line with best practice, to conduct a monitoring the Groups risk management and internal control systems and it reviews the effectiveness of these systems poll on each resolution proposed at the AGM.
The results of the through the work of the Audit Committee.
AGM resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on the Companys website.
The principal risks which the Board has identified this year are set out in the section on Internal Control and Risk Management With regard to other shareholder meetings, other than AGMs, on pages 30 to 33 of the Strategic Report.
the Board will continue, in ordinary circumstances, to provide as much notice as possible and certainly no less than 14 working days.
However, the Board considers that it should still retain the Relations with shareholders The Company has a well-developed investor relations flexibility to reduce the timescale to 14 clear days in the case of programme managed by the Chief Executive Officer and Group non-routine business and where it is merited by the business of Finance Director.
Through this programme, the Company the meeting.
For this reason, the Board has again proposed a resolution at the AGM to reduce the notice period for General maintains regular contact with major shareholders to communicate clearly the Groups objectives and monitors Meetings from 21 to no less than 14 clear days.
During the past several years, these communications have been enhanced by the introduction of Investor Days, both in the UK and in Canada which were well attended.
In addition, Investor Roadshows are now held each year in the US and Canada as well as in the UK and formal investor presentations are made twice a year to groups of private client fund managers.
