Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 43 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Report Anne Thorburn Chairman of the Audit Committee There is a strong culture across the Key Duties Group of maintaining robust and Full terms of reference are available on the Companys effective systems of internal control.
Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to external financial reporting and similar announcements, including Half Year and Annual financial Members of Committee: Attendance statements and quarterly trading updates.
Anne Thorburn Chairman, appointed on Reviews key accounting and auditing issues.
17 November 2015 6 6 Marie-Louise Clayton retired on 16 November 2015 1 1 Reviews the Groups internal control systems and risk Charles Packshaw 6 6 management procedures.
Andy Smith 6 6 Recommends appointment and or reappointment of the Dear Shareholder external auditor and approves their terms of engagement.
I was appointed to the Board in September last year and became Chairman of the Audit Committee in November.
I completed a Reviews and monitors independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
detailed induction process with excellent input from the executives and finance staff, particularly the Group Internal Audit Manager.
I also visited a number of the larger business Monitors policy on external auditor supplying units and had discussions with senior operational management.
I observed a strong culture across the Group of maintaining robust and effective systems of internal control over both Monitors fraud reports and operation of the Companys financial and operational processes.
I also noted a particular Whistleblowing and anti-Bribery and Corruption policies.
focus on rapid integration of new acquisitions to achieve the Reviews effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and required Group standards.
makes recommendations to the Board.
While there were no significant new regulatory requirements to address this year, the Committees agenda was very full Approves the Internal Audit work programme and reviews the results of the work undertaken.
and is described in detail on page 44.
The Groups financial and operational policies and processes are well established and no significant control weaknesses were noted from the issues Reviews the basis on which the Company and its principal reviewed by the Committee during this year.
However, it is subsidiaries continue to prepare their financial statements on a going concern basis.
important to continuously review and develop the risk management and control systems to support the ongoing growth of the Group.
During 2016 we introduced an improved Reports to the Board on how it has discharged its whistleblowing process and approved plans to increase the responsibilities.
The Committee remains satisfied that the external auditor carries out a robust and effective audit with appropriate challenge of executive management.
However, in 2017 we will be initiating an external audit tender process as Deloitte LLP approaches its ten year anniversary as Group auditor.
Finally, I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM on 18 January 2017 and will be happy to respond to any questions relating to the activities of the Audit Committee.
Anne Thorburn 21 November 2016 For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 44 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee The Committee is chaired by Anne Thorburn and comprises Audit Committee Agenda 2016 three independent non-Executive Directors.
The Chair of the Committee is a qualified accountant, who has recent and Reviewed and agreed the scope of work to be undertaken relevant financial experience.
by the external auditor and agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid for the external audit.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that as a whole, the Committee has sufficient knowledge and competence in the Reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts and received Sectors in which the Group operates in order to provide reports from the Group Finance Director and the external appropriate challenge to management.
auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Executive Directors also attend Committee Reviewed the processes necessary to ensure that the meetings and the Internal Audit Manager also attended two Board was able to confirm that the Annual Report & Committee meetings.
The Committee met with the external Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
auditor and Internal Audit Manager during the year, without the Executive Directors being present.
Reviewed the report from the Group Finance Director on the controls in place to mitigate fraud risk.
Engagement of the external auditor The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Reviewed the Half Year Announcement and received financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
The reports from the Group Finance Director and the external audit includes the review and testing of the systems of internal auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of financial control and the data contained in the financial significant judgement.
statements, to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management procedures and, where Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditor since its appropriate, made recommendations to the Board on appointment in 2008.
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with areas for improvement.
relevant reports, reviews and advice throughout the year, as set out in their terms of engagement.
Reviewed the Groups policy on anti-Bribery and Corruption and the procedures in place to ensure In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys auditor compliance across the Group.
adheres to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead engagement partner was appointed in 2013 in place Reviewed the Trading Updates at meetings held in of the previous lead engagement partner who had completed a January, March and August.
term of five years in that role.
Invited the Internal Audit Manager to attend meetings During the year, the Committee carried out an assessment of the in September and January to review the results of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The assessment was Internal Audit work for the current year and to agree the led by the Chair of the Committee, assisted by the Group Finance scope and focus of Internal Audit work to be carried out Director and focused on certain criteria which the Committee in the following year.
considered to be important factors in demonstrating an effective audit process.
These factors included the quality of audit Reviewed the scope of sanctions issued by the European staff, the planning and execution of the audit, and the role of Union and the US and the procedures being followed by management in the audit process.
Following this assessment, the the Groups businesses to monitor compliance.
Committee concluded that the external audit process remained effective and that it provides an appropriate independent Reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process challenge of the Groups senior management.
and recommended the reappointment of the Groups external auditor.
The Committee remains satisfied that Deloitte continues to provide a robust and effective audit, and supports the work of Reviewed the Groups policy on whistleblowing and the the Committee through clear and objective communication on introduction of a dedicated external telephone hotline developments in financial reporting and governance.
service for all employees to raise concerns.
In 2016, the Committee commenced its review of the Reviewed the Groups policy on non-audit services which Companys audit tender timetable and processes in preparation may be provided by the auditor.
for the audit tender which is likely to carried out during the Spring Summer of 2017.
As part of this process, the Committee Reviewed the ESMA guidance on Alternative Performance Chair arranged initial meetings with potential engagement Measures to ensure that the Groups adjusted measures partners from the audit firms that are likely to be asked to tender remained compliant.
This timing will ensure that there is sufficient opportunity, if necessary to transition the audit of the Group Reviewed the implications of FRS 101 that will impact the from the incumbent auditor to the auditor-elect.
It is currently Groups UK statutory reporting companies, including the anticipated that the auditor-elect will shadow the audit of Parent Company, Diploma PLC.
30 September 2017 results, before taking on sole responsibility as auditor of the Company following the AGM in 2018.
Reviewed terms and implications of the Competition & Markets Authority Order and the EU Audit Directive and The Audit Committee confirms that the Company has complied Audit Regulation.
with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authority Order throughout its financial year ended 30 September 2016 Reviewed the Audit Committee terms of reference.
and up to the date of this report.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 45 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial reporting and significant judgements Risk management and internal control As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable to have the most significant impact on the Groups long term accounting policies have been adopted and whether performance are set out in a separate section of the Strategic management has made appropriate estimates and judgements Report on Internal Control and Risk Management on pages 30 and seeks support from the external auditor to assess them.
The main issues reviewed in the year ended 30 September 2016 The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness are set out below: of the Groups system of internal control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Impairment of goodwill of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and the assumptions underlying the impairment review.
The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment largely relate to the assumptions underlying the calculations of the The Board has established a clear organisational structure value in use of the Sector being tested for impairment.
These with defined authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the judgements are primarily the calculation of the discount rate, Groups business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the the achievability of strategic business plans and macroeconomic Company.
The Executive Directors visit each operating unit on assumptions underlying the valuation process.
This area is a regular basis and meet with both operational and finance a prime source of audit focus and accordingly the external management and staff.
auditor provided detailed reporting to the Committee.
Key financial and operational measures relating to revenues, cash and receivables are reported on a weekly basis.
Detailed Accounting for acquisitions The Committee reviewed the accounting for acquisitions management accounts and KPIs are prepared monthly using completed during the year and the assumptions underlying the a robust proprietary reporting system to collect and analyse valuation of intangible assets.
They discussed the nature of the financial data in a consistent format.
Monthly results are measured against both budget and half year reforecasts which intangible assets with the Group Finance Director and the period over which these assets are to be amortised.
The Committee have been approved and reviewed by the Board.
All capital also discussed the fair value adjustments and the value expenditure above pre-defined amounts must be supported attributed to deferred consideration.
The Committee also by a paper prepared by business management.
discussed with the external auditor the work they had carried out to satisfy themselves that the valuation assumptions All financial data is taken directly from the trial balances of were appropriate.
each business held in their local ERP systems and re-analysed and formatted into a separate Group management reporting system, operated by the Group finance department.
There is Valuation of inventory The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance no re-keying of financial data and very limited use is made Director that set out the gross balances by business, together of spreadsheets by the Group businesses to report monthly with any related provision against the carrying value.
The Group finance department continues to develop the functionality of this management reporting system Committee reviewed the bases used to value and confirm existence of inventory held across the Group: they also to provide greater insights into the activities of the Groups considered the appropriateness of provisions held against the businesses.
The Groups internal auditor regularly audits the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age and base data at each business to ensure it is collected by the management reporting system.
volumes of inventory, relative to expected usage.
This matter was also discussed with the external auditor.
As part of the year end close process each business is required The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out to complete a self-assessment which evaluates their financial control environment in the business designed to identify above had been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Directors, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external weaknesses in controls.
These assessments are critically auditor and that the disclosures made in the Annual Report & reviewed by the Groups Internal Audit Manager and a summary Accounts were appropriate.
for each business is prepared for the Audit Committee.
In addition, senior management of each business are required In addition to the main issues reviewed above, the Committee to confirm their adherence with Group accounting policies, also seeks confirmation from the auditor that the Groups processes and systems of internal control by means of a businesses follow appropriate policies to recognise material representation letter addressed to the Audit Committee.
streams of revenue and that the audit work carried out more generally has assessed any instances where management may The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups be able to override key internal controls designed to guard risk management and internal control systems for the period against fraud or material misstatement.
The auditor also reports from 1 October 2015 to the date of this Report.
Taking into account the matters set out on pages 30 to 33 relating to to the Committee on other less material matters relating to the calculation of, and accounting for the gain on sale of assets in principal risks and uncertainties and the reports from the 2016, the Groups two pension scheme arrangements, Internal Audit Manager, the Board, with the advice of the accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Revised and the Committee, is satisfied that the Group has in place effective risk management and internal control systems.
For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 46 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Report continued Internal Audit The Regulations substantially curtail those non-audit services The Groups finance department includes a separate Internal which can be provided by the auditor to the Company and in Audit function.
This function is managed by a qualified internal particular, prohibits all tax related services, including compliance auditor who is based in one of the Groups businesses in services as well as general advice, and all consultancy and Minneapolis in the US.
The internal auditor remains a member of advisory services.
The Regulations require that Board approval is the Group management team in Diploma PLC and reports directly required if eligible non-audit services, such as due diligence and to both the Group Finance Director and Chair of the Audit similar assurance services exceed 30% of the prior year Group Committee.
The Audit Committee has approved the recruitment audit fee and the Company may not allow eligible non-audit of an additional internal audit resource, to commence in the services to exceed 70% of the Group audit fee, calculated on New Year and be based from the United Kingdom.
A full programme of internal audit visits has been completed In Diploma PLC, taxation services are not provided by the during the year.
The scope of work carried out by internal audit Groups audit firm: a separate firm is retained to provide tax generally focuses on the internal financial controls and risk advice and any assistance with tax compliance matters generally.
In addition, due diligence exercises on acquisitions management procedures operating within each business.
In January, the Internal Audit Manager presents his audit plan for and similar transactions are not provided by the auditor, but are the year to the Committee for their approval.
Written reports are placed with other firms.
prepared on the results of each visit which set out weaknesses The Group auditor is retained to carry out assurance services identified during the work, together with recommendations to improve the control environment.
These reports are reviewed to the Committee in connection with carrying out agreed and discussed with the Executive Directors.
upon procedures on the Groups Half Year consolidated financial statements.
At the conclusion of the financial year, the Internal Audit Manager reports to the Committee on the results of the audit The Group Finance Director does not have delegated authority work carried out in the year.
The Committee reviews to engage the auditor to carry out any non-audit work, but must managements response to matters raised, including the time seek approval from the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
taken to resolve such matters.
There were no significant matters identified in the internal audits undertaken during the current The Committee assures itself of the auditors independence by year, with the exception of concerns reported in connection with receiving regular reports from the external auditor which provide weak systems of internal control in the recently acquired WCIS details of any assignments and related fees carried out by the auditor in addition to their normal audit work, and these are businesses.
These weaknesses were quickly addressed by local management with the assistance of resources in Group Finance reviewed against the above guidelines.
and the control environment has now been stabilised.
More generally, recommendations were made on other internal audits Details of the external auditors total fees, including non-audit fees of 13,000 paid to Deloitte LLP during the year are set out this year relating to inadequate inventory reconciliations, weak user access controls in some ERP systems and more timely and in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Sanctions The Audit Committee continued to work with senior As well as carrying out Internal Audit on financial transactions, work was also targeted this year to ensure high level controls management of the Company, in conjunction with local were in place to mitigate the risk of cyber-attacks and management of Kenteks Russian operations, to ensure ongoing on processes and documentation supporting foreign compliance with EU and US led sanctions.
The Committee has received reports on compliance with these sanctions and will currency hedging.
continue to monitor developments until the sanctions are The Internal Audit Manager also continues to assist the suspended or revoked.
Committee in its oversight of the Groups controls designed to AntiBribery and Whistleblowing ensure compliance with the policy on anti-Bribery and Corruption.
Diploma has a Group-wide anti-Bribery and Corruption policy The Internal Audit Manager reported to the Committee that to comply with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews good progress had been made by the Groups businesses in its procedures to ensure continued effective compliance in its businesses around the world.
During the year, the Group rolled implementing recommendations communicated last year and in particular in improving procedures operating over formalising out an e-learning training programme to all its businesses.
This month end close procedures, policies for inventory provisioning training has been undertaken by all senior management and and controls over supplier master file data.
employees in customer or supplier facing roles.
These training programmes are regularly carried out and the e-learning training The Committee continues to keep under review the need programme is being extended to encompass other regulatory for a more independent Internal Audit function in the Group.
and compliance based topics, including Code of Conduct.
The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups system of During the year, the Committee updated the Groups internal control is appropriate for a group of the size and nature of Diploma PLC and the Committees current view is that a Whistleblowing Policy, which provides the framework to separate formal independent Internal Audit function is not encourage and give employees confidence to blow the whistle required at this time.
The Committee approved the roll out of a dedicated 24 7 Whistleblowing Hotline across the Group.
Nonaudit services The Policy, together with Hotline posters are placed on site The Committee has reviewed its internal guidelines covering the noticeboards across the Group.
Employees are encouraged to type of non-audit work that can be carried out by the external raise concerns via the Hotline which is managed by an independent external company.
Reports to the Hotline are auditor of the Company, in light of the new regulation set out in the EU Audit Directive and Audit Regulation 2014.
These investigated and reported to the Committee, together with Regulations came into force on 17 June 2016 and apply to the details of corrective action taken.
The Groups Whistleblowing Company from 1 October 2017.
Policy is monitored by the Committee and no Whistleblowing matters were reported to the Committee under this policy during the year.
