Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 47 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Nomination Committee Report Members of Committee Attendance Key Duties John Nicholas Chairman 2 2 Marie-Louise Clayton retired on 16 November 2015 Full terms of reference are available on the Companys Charles Packshaw 2 2 website.
Andy Smith 2 2 Anne Thorburn 2 2 Reviews the size, composition and structure of the Board and the Board Committees.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Nicholas, the Ensures the right balance of skills, knowledge, experience Chairman of the Company.
The Committee is chaired by the and diversity on the Board.
Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of the Company.
The Committee comprises the Identifies, evaluates and nominates candidates to fill Board non-Executive Directors.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Reviews succession planning for the Board and senior executives, taking account of experience, knowledge, Appointment of Directors skills and diversity.
As part of any appointment process for new Directors, the Committee determines the selection criteria for each Director Reviews the Group policy on conflicts of interest and which takes account of diversity, including gender and sets out register and ensures there are no material conflicts a detailed description of the requirements for the role.
Committee works with external search agencies as appropriate, who draw up a long list of candidates from a range of industries Reviews, as part of the annual evaluation exercise, the and backgrounds for initial appraisal by the Committee.
From time commitment of non-Executive Directors to the role this, a shortlist is prepared of suitable candidates that most and externally.
closely meet the selection criteria and these candidates are interviewed by members of the Committee.
Following these interviews, the Committee recommends to the Board the appointment of a Director.
As part of this process the Agenda 2016 Committee ensures that it follows the Boards policy on diversity, described on page 41.
Completed the initial managed induction programmes of non-Executive Directors appointed in 2015.
Andy Smith and Anne Thorburn, the two non-Executive Directors appointed in 2015, completed their tailored induction Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience programmes during 2016, having visited the larger facilities on the Board and its diversity, including gender.
The Chairman has reviewed and agreed the training and development needs of individual Directors Considered succession planning in relation to the and encourages them to continually update their skills, together Executive Directors and senior management.
with knowledge and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their role on the Board and Board Committees.
Reviewed Board members register of conflicts of interest.
Succession planning At the strategy meeting held in June 2015, the Board reviewed succession planning for the Executive Directors and for the senior management cadre comprising ca.
90 senior managers across the Groups businesses.
At this meeting the Board agreed with the Chief Executive Officer to establish an Executive Management Group EMG of key senior managers who will have the potential to provide leadership in the future.
This initiative forms a key part of the Boards succession planning activities.
Members of the EMG were confirmed in the early part of the year and formal meetings over two days were held in March and September at which members of the EMG discussed key issues relating to both the shorter term challenges facing the Group and longer term development of strategy and operational initiatives.
The Committee also carries out a review of the Boards succession plans for management and their direct reports at a formal meeting of the Committee and the Board in January each year.
This exercise also sets out development plans to target potential successor senior management in the Group over the next five years.
The Committee has also reviewed succession planning for the non-Executive Directors.
While the Board has been recently refreshed, the Chairmans intention is to stagger retirement among the non-Executive Directors in order to maintain continuity and to preserve Board balance.
For more information, please visit: www.
