Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report This report explains the Boards role and activities, and Board composition how corporate governance operates throughout the Group.
As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, who was independent when appointed to the The UK Corporate Governance Code Board: the CEO: CFO: the Managing Director of Personal Direct Line Insurance Group plc the Company has complied Lines: and six independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs, with all of the principles and provisions of the 2014 UK including the SID.
The current Directors served throughout Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the all of 2016, except for Richard Ward, who was appointed financial year.
on 18 January 2016 and Danuta Gray and Mike HollidayWilliams who were appointed on 1 February 2017.
The only exception is the recommendation contained in Priscilla Vacassin retired from the Board on 1 March 2016.
Provision E. 1.1 of the Code that the Senior Independent Director SID should attend sufficient meetings with major You can find the names of the current Directors of the shareholders to listen to their views.
Throughout 2016, the Company as at the date of this report and their biographical Board received regular updates from the Companys corporate information on pages 50 and 51. brokers on the views of its institutional shareholders and, in addition, the Investor Relations team provided regular updates Meetings to the Board.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer CEO The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2016. and the Chief Financial Officer CFO met with key The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings.
shareholders following announcements of results and reported At its discretion, the Board invited senior executives and shareholders views back to the Board.
On this basis the external advisers to attend Board meetings, and to present Board is satisfied that it understands the views of shareholders, on business developments and governance matters.
and major shareholders have been invited to meet with the SID should they wish to do so.
It is open to all shareholders to The table below sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings raise any issues they wish with the Chairman, the SID and the in 2016: Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has therefore Scheduled Percentage concluded that it has complied with the main and supporting 1 meetings attendance principles under section E. 1 of the Code regarding dialogue Chairman with shareholders.
Mike Biggs 9 of 9 100% Further details of how the Company applied the Codes Senior Independent Director principles and complied with its provisions can be found Richard Ward 9 of 9 100% on the following pages of this report and the Directors Non-Executive Directors remuneration report: Jane Hanson 9 of 9 100% Leadership page 53 Sebastian James 9 of 9 100% Andrew Palmer 9 of 9 100% Effectiveness page 56 Clare Thompson 9 of 9 100% Accountability page 61 1 Priscilla Vacassin 2 of 2 100% Remuneration page 63 Executive Directors Relations with shareholders page 63 Paul Geddes 9 of 9 100% John Reizenstein 9 of 9 100% For more information about the Code, visit the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend Leadership The Board The Board also held seven additional meetings.
The additional meetings were ad hoc or Board sub-committee meetings, The Board has a collective objective of promoting the long-term including meetings to receive recommendations from the success of the Company for its shareholders and provides Nomination Committee on Board and Committee changes, leadership of the Company.
The main role of the Board is to and strategic matters.
The Board also held an annual strategy organise and direct the Groups affairs in a way that is most day in June 2016. likely to help it succeed in the long-term for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
The Board supervises the Groups Structure of the Board operations, with the objectives of ensuring that they are The diagrams on the following page summarise the effectively managed, that prudent controls are in place, responsibilities of the Chairman, the CEO, the Board and the and that risks are assessed and managed appropriately.
The Board has established six Committees In addition, it also sets the Groups strategy, and monitors to help discharge its responsibilities.
Each Committee plays managements performance and progress against the a vital role in helping to ensure the Board operates efficiently strategic aims and objectives.
The Board also develops and and considers matters appropriately.
Further details on the roles promotes the collective vision of the Groups purpose, culture, and responsibilities of the Board Committees, along with the values and behaviours.
activities undertaken during the period, are contained in the Committee reports on pages 64 to 81. www.
com 53 Corporate governance report continued Board Mike Biggs, Chairman Organises and directs the Groups affairs in a way that is believed most likely to help it succeed in the long-term for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
Supervises the Groups operations, helping to ensure it is effectively managed, that prudent controls are in place, and that risks are assessed and managed appropriately.
Sets the Groups strategy, and monitors managements performance and progress against the strategic aims and objectives.
Approves the terms of reference for the Board Committees and, where appropriate, reviews and agrees their recommendations.
Audit Committee Board Risk Committee CSR Committee Investment Committee Nomination Remuneration Andrew Palmer, Jane Hanson, Sebastian James, Andrew Palmer, Committee Committee Chair Chair Chair Chair Mike Biggs, Chair Clare Thompson, Chair Maintains the Oversees and Provides oversight Provides oversight Reviews the Boards Sets and oversees integrity of the advises the Board and advice on how of how the Group structure, size, how the Group Groups financial on the Groups the Group conducts develops its composition, and implements its statements.
current and potential its business investment strategy.
balance of skills, remuneration policy.
future risk exposures, responsibly, experience, Oversees and Oversees the Oversees the level and its strategic including matters independence and challenges the management and and structure of approach to relating to expertise.
effectiveness of the performance of the remuneration managing risk.
environmental, Groups systems of Groups investment Leads the process arrangements for employee financial and other Recommends risk portfolio.
for Board senior executives, engagement and controls.
appetite and appointments and approves share wellbeing, tolerance levels to makes incentive plans, and Monitors the work community the Board and recommendations to recommends them and effectiveness of involvement, and supports the Board the Board.
to the Board and the Groups internal ethics.
and external Provides guidance aware culture across auditors and to management on the Group.
More details can be More details can be More details can be More details can be More details can be More details can be found on pages found on pages found on pages found on pages found on pages found on pages 64 to 67.
The diagram below outlines the executive management structure.
Executive Committee Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer Sets performance targets.
Implements the Board-determined Group strategy and direction.
Monitors key objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Groups targets.
Evaluates new business initiatives and opportunities.
Considers reports on operational matters that are material to the Group or have cross business implications.
Managing Director Managing Chief Operating Chief Risk Officer Chief Financial Officer General Counsel Group Human Commercial Director Personal Officer Resources Director Jose Vazquez John Reizenstein Humphrey Tomlinson Lines Jon Greenwood Steve Maddock Simon Linares Mike Holliday-Williams Biographical details of the Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are shown on pages 50 to 52.
54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Chief Executive Officer The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys success.
The Board has, however, authorised Paul Geddes, the CEO, to manage the Groups day-to-day operations and deliver its strategic objectives.
In turn, Paul Geddes has delegated certain elements of his authority to Executive Committee members.
This helps ensure that senior executives are accountable and responsible for managing their businesses and functions.
Such delegation also involves ensuring the senior executives have the appropriate financial and other authorities needed to manage those business areas.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is the principal management committee that helps the CEO manage the Groups operations.
It helps him: set performance targets: implement the Board-determined Group strategy and direction: and monitor key objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Groups targets.
It also helps him evaluate new business initiatives and opportunities, and considers reports on operational matters that are material to the Group or have cross business implications.
Non-Executive Directors Each Director brings different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, with the NEDs bringing additional independent thought and judgement.
All NEDs must be able to spend sufficient time in their roles to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The letters of appointment for the Chairman and NEDs set out the time the Group anticipates that they will commit to their roles.
This is at least three days a week for the Chairman and an average of three days a month for the other NEDs depending on business needs.
The Nomination Committee reviews this time commitment, and each NEDs other commitments, annually.
An overview of the role and responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO, SID and the NEDs is set out in the table below: Role Responsibilities Chairman: Responsible for maintaining, developing and leading an effective Board.
Planning and managing the Boards business, presiding at Board meetings and The Board has agreed individual role acting as figurehead for the Board.
profiles for the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and the CEO, Paul Geddes.
These clearly define Chief Executive Responsible for managing the Group, and delivering their roles and responsibilities.
This is to Officer: the Groups strategy and financial results.
Certain } ensure no one person has unlimited powers elements of his authority have been delegated to of decision making.
Executive Committee members to help ensure that senior executives are accountable and responsible for managing their businesses and functions.
Senior Independent Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Director: Available to shareholders if they have any concerns they cannot resolve through normal channels.
Leads the Chairmans performance evaluation annually.
Non-Executive Responsible for objectively and constructively challenging management.
Use their wider business Directors: experience to help develop the Groups strategy.
NEDs are initially appointed for a term of three years.
The Nomination Committee recommends potential new NEDs to the Board for appointment.
The Board then considers and approves each appointment.
All Directors are subject to election or re-election annually at the Companys AGM.
You can find the standard terms and conditions of the NED appointments at www.
Further details of NEDs letters of appointment are on page 108 of the Directors remuneration report.
Information and support All Directors can access assistance and advice from the Company Secretary.
The Board is satisfied that it receives information of appropriate quality and in a timely manner, to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
Directors may seek external independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if they need it to discharge their duties.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and he or his nominated deputy attends all Board Committee meetings.
com 55 Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness Matters Reserved for the Board The Board recognises that to ensure the long-term success of the Company, certain specific matters should be reserved for the consideration and decision of the Board either alone or following review and recommendation by its Committees.
Other matters are delegated by the Board to its Committees and to the Executive Directors.
In addition to the Schedule of Matters Reserved, each Board Committee has written terms of reference defining its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The decisions specifically reserved for approval by the Board are set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, and are summarised in the diagram below.
Strategy and management Communication Corporate governance Ensuring satisfactory dialogue with matters Overall leadership of the Group and shareholders.
setting the Companys values and The Groups corporate governance standards.
Arrangements for Annual and other and regulatory compliance General Meetings.
Oversight of the Groups operations.
The Groups strategic aims and Structure and capital objectives.
Changes to the Companys capital Annual operating and capital structure and debt securities structure.
Major changes to the Groups Material extension of the Groups corporate structure, including material activities into new business or acquisitions and disposals of shares.
Changes to the Companys listing or Decisions to cease operation of any plc status.
material part of the Groups business.
Matters Reserved Contracts for the Board Delegation of authority Major capital projects, investments Division of responsibilities between and contracts that are either the Chairman and Chief Executive.
materially strategic or above the CEOs delegated authority.
Delegated levels of authority to Executive Directors.
Financial reporting and controls Results announcements.
Board membership and other Remuneration Dividend policy.
appointments Chairman and NED remuneration.
Appointment and removal of Directors, Remuneration policy.
SID, CEO, Company Secretary and Introduction of new share incentive Chief Risk Officer.
plans or major changes to existing Selection of the Chairman.
plans, for approval by shareholders.
Internal controls & risk Succession planning for the Board and management senior executives.
The internal controls and risk management system, including the Groups Risk Appetite Statements.
56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The chart below details some of the specific topics discussed Board activities during 2016 during 2016: The activities undertaken by the Board in 2016 to promote the long-term success of the Company are focused on its role January February March as the leadership and decision forum for the Group.
Review of Groups Review of Group Review of Motor Scheduled Board meeting discussions are focused on four response to recent strategy strategy flooding main themes: Review of year-end Reviewed progress Consideration of reserves of IMAP application results of employee Strategy & execution, including: setting the Groups key ORSA Discussed talent opinion survey strategic targets and monitoring the Groups performance management and Dividend policy 2015 Board succession planning against those targets: reviewing customer experience and Effectiveness Review monitoring the Group performance against external brand metrics: reviewing and approving key projects aimed at developing the business or rationalising costs: reviewing the approach to mergers and acquisitions: and reviewing the April June July individual strategy of key business lines.
Review of Outputs from Board Compliance with Commercial strategy day Market Abuse Financial performance and investor relations, including: strategy Regulation Review of Solvency II setting financial plans, annual budgets and key performance Approval of Risk Appetite People strategy indicators KPIs, and monitoring the Groups results against catastrophe update Investor Relations reinsurance them: considering the Groups reserving position: approving update Solvency II capital arrangements generation financial results for publication: agreeing the Groups dividend Update on Groups policy: and reviewing broker reports on the Group alongside Half Year report investment portfolio feedback from investor meetings.
Risk management, regulatory and other related September November December governance, including: reviewing and agreeing the Groups Update on Preliminary financial Personal Lines Policies: setting risk appetites: approving the Own Risk & implementation of plan 2016-2020 strategy update Solvency Assessment ORSA : approving major changes the next generation Approval of of customer systems to the Groups internal model and seeking to ensure that the Strategic Plan Group complies with all regulatory requirements.
Update on CSR Motor reinsurance initiative regarding renewal young drivers Board & Board Committee governance, including: receiving Shotgun reports from the Boards Committees: updating terms of Modern Slavery Act references for the Committees: and implementing an annual review of Board and Committees effectiveness.
The co-ordination of the Board meeting content is managed The CEO and CFO spend a considerable amount of time by the Chairman, supported by the CEO and Company with the different business units ensuring that the Boards aims Secretary, primarily using a forward agenda planner.
are being correctly disseminated throughout the Group, and that colleagues views and opinions are reported back to the In addition to routine business the Board considers and Board.
In addition the NEDs meet with key management discusses key issues that impact on the business as they arise.
outside of the Board and Committee fora to get a wider view of the Groups activities.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued A similar programme has been put together for Mike HollidayBoard induction, resources and training Williams, MD Personal Lines, who has recently been The Board is committed to training and developing all Directors appointed as an Executive Director.
This programme will focus and employees.
The Company Secretary is responsible for on his duties and responsibilities as a Director of the Company helping the Chairman regularly review and organise training and corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary also maintains an annual training agenda for the Board and its Committees.
The main Board training and development activities in the year under review included: In order for our Directors, particularly the NEDs, to discharge their responsibilities, it is essential that they understand our Training on topics including: Solvency II matters: the business.
The diagram below illustrates the various ways Groups investment risk appetite: cyber risk and security: in which the Directors understanding and knowledge of the PPOs, complaints handling: and marketing and branding.
business and the regulatory environment in which it operates NED visits to operational business units to meet the is enhanced.
management teams and better understand how the business operates.
These included visits to Claims, Fraud and Legal Services teams in Leeds and Bromley, the Groups UK Assistance Accident and Repair Centres in Manchester, Tailored Meeting to the offices of The Floow in Sheffield and the offices induction our people of EXL the Groups principal offshore business processing services provider.
Divisional Internal training workshops on: the Senior Insurance Site visits and functional Managers Regime: anti-bribery and corruption and reviews competition law: the Groups IECM: and the application Getting of the pricing actuarial basis for Personal Lines Motor.
to know Deep dive Investor Regular updates from the Company Secretary on sessions and roadshow the business corporate governance.
management feedback presentations Quarterly industry and market updates from the Groups brokers and financial advisers.
Regular briengs Regular reports from the Investor Relations team regarding Strategy on governance, institutional investors and analysts.
days legal and Board regulatory and Committee matters meetings Richard Ward undertook a tailored induction programme during 2016 which was disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
A tailored induction programme has been prepared for Danuta Gray, a recently appointed NED.
The programme will focus on the Groups businesses, strategic and transformational priorities, regulatory and governance frameworks, capital and financial management, and risk framework.
58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board effectiveness review In accordance with the principles and provisions of the Code, the Boards intended practice is to conduct a thorough review of the effectiveness of the performance of the Directors, the Board as a whole and its Committees on an annual basis, with the input of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
The 2016 Board effectiveness review was facilitated by an external consultant, Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School, who is independent and has no other connection with the Company.
The 2016 process commenced with the Nomination Committee planning the scope of the evaluation.
The Committee considered a shortlist of external evaluators for approval by the Board.
The selected evaluator discussed the process with the Chairman and the Company Secretary and agreed the questions to be put to Board members and a number of executives who regularly attend Board and or Committee meetings.
All of the Companys Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the other respondents completed a questionnaire and then held one-to-one interviews with the facilitator.
Professor Goffee discussed his report initially with the Chairman and Company Secretary and presented it to the Board in January 2017.
The review focused on: Role & organisation The role of the Board, including Board and Committee structure and composition: the number and frequency of meetings: and Directors responsibilities.
Agenda The relevance of agenda items: Directors ability to influence agenda content: and how much time is allocated to strategic issues and corporate performance.
Corporate Governance Corporate governance matters relating to: Director appointments: the operation of the Board: and the guidance provided to Directors.
Non-Executive & Directors expertise and experience: training: the behaviour of, and interaction between, the Executive Directors Non-Executive and Executive Directors: Non-Executive Directors time commitment: and access to key executives below Board level.
Information The flow of information, including: the quality and sufficiency of reports: access to external advice: induction and understanding of the Groups businesses: and volume and timeliness of paper submission.
Group performance The Boards contribution to the Groups strategic direction: and the procedures for approving, and monitoring the Groups performance against, the approved strategic objectives.
Leadership & culture The Boards environment and culture, including: working relationships: succession planning: and leadership of the Board, including Board meeting management.
The findings of the effectiveness review were discussed by the Board as a whole in January 2017.
Based on the responses to the questionnaire and resulting reports, the Directors are satisfied that the Board and its Committees operated effectively in 2016.
The Directors are also satisfied that they made significant progress in areas for potential improvement identified in 2015.
Whilst the findings of Professor Goffees report were positive, the Board will focus during 2017 on a number of areas with the objective of improving its, and its Committees, effectiveness.
These include: making better use of Non-Executive Directors expertise in the strategic planning cycle: refreshing the Boards skills and experience through Board succession planning: and enhancing the Boards approach to monitoring major business initiatives.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued Regulatory Governance Map.
Governance framework and structure Risk Appetite Statements.
The Board is responsible for ensuring there is an appropriate system of governance in operation throughout the Group.
Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework.
This This includes a robust system of internal controls and a sound sets out the Groups approach to setting risk strategy and for risk management framework.
The Board has established managing risks to the strategic objectives and day-to-day a risk management model that separates the Groups risk operations of the business.
management responsibilities into three lines of defence.
Executive Governance Framework, which outlines how The Groups governance framework is detailed in the each business function is governed and details the authority High Level Control and System of Governance Framework delegated to Executive Committee members.
The Board reviews this document annually.
The core elements of the Governance Framework are the: Minimum Standards, which interpret the Group Policies into a set of operational requirements that can be implemented Matters Reserved for the Board and the Board Committees throughout the Group.
The diagram below summarises the split of responsibilities for the different parts of the Groups governance framework.
Board approves Matters Reserved for High Level Control and System of the Board and Board Governance document High level governance framework, Committees Risk Appetite, Group Policies and Terms of Reference Regulatory Governance Map are Regulatory set by the Board, following review Risk Appetite Governance Map by the Board Risk Committee.
Group Policies and certain Minimum Standards Board Risk ERM Strategy and Framework Committee approves Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework is approved by the Board Risk Committee, following review by the Risk Management Committee a committee comprised of Executives.
Risk Management Executive Governance Framework Committee approves The Executive Governance Framework is developed by Executives and approved by the Risk Management Committee.
Policy owner approves Minimum standards are approved by policy owners subject to non-objection from the Risk Minimum Standards Management Committee.
Business unit and operational area implementation 60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Conflicts of interest Nomination Committee The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assesses to authorise matters where there is, or may be, a conflict the NEDs independence, skills, knowledge and experience between the Groups interests and the direct or indirect as part of its annual review of each Directors performance.
interests of a Director, or between a Directors duties to The Board concluded that every current NED was the Group and another person.
This is in accordance with independent, continued to contribute effectively, and the Companies Act 2006. demonstrated they were committed to the role.
Andrew Palmer has served on the Board since March 2011.
At the Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
They Chairmans request, he has agreed to continue to serve as must declare any conflict of interest that could interfere with a Director and a resolution for his re-election as a Director their ability to act in the Groups best interests.
will be proposed to the 2017 AGM.
In accordance with the Code, the extension of Mr Palmers term of appointment The Board has authorised certain potential conflicts of interest beyond six years has been the subject of a particularly rigorous in this way.
However, the Board still ensures that it will review.
The Board is satisfied that he remains independent, appropriately deal with any actual conflict of interest or duty that that he continues to make a significant contribution to the might arise.
This usually would involve making sure a Director proceedings of the Board and its Committees and that the does not participate in a relevant Board or Committee discussion extension of his term of appointment will provide valuable or decision.
continuity as work on refreshing the Board progresses.
To do this, the Company Secretary maintains a register of The Nomination Committees work during the year led to conflicts, and any conflicts that the Board has authorised.
The the appointment of Danuta Gray as an additional NED, and Board reviews this register at each scheduled Board meeting.
Mike Holliday Williams, MD Personal Lines, as an Executive Director, both with effect from 1 February 2017.
You can Approach to diversity find out more about these activities and the Nomination The Board carefully considers the diversity of its members Committees work during the year on pages 76 to 78. from various perspectives.
It also seeks to ensure that Directors have the relevant knowledge, skills, experience and, where Accountability necessary, independence to help the Group deliver its strategy.
An explanation of how the Board meets its responsibilities under the Code is set out below, except for the following The Company believes in the benefits of diversity.
At the date matters, which are covered elsewhere in the Annual Report of this report, of the Boards ten members, three are women.
& Accounts: However, while the Board will strive to consider diversity when choosing new members, it is committed to appointing the most How the Company seeks to generate value over the longappropriate candidates.
term is explained in the business model on pages 8 and 9, and the strategy for delivering Company objectives is on The Nomination Committees terms of reference state that it pages 14 to 17. should duly regard the benefits of diversity, including gender How the Board has assessed the Groups longer-term diversity, when choosing Board candidates.
You can find viability and the adoption of the going concern basis in more information about the Boards diversity policy in the the financial statements is set out in the Directors report Nomination Committee report on page 78. on pages 112 and 113.
The CSR Committee considers diversity as part of its Proud The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit to be here work stream.
This is to ensure the Groups talent Committee to oversee the management of the relationship pipeline remains diverse to meet future requirements.
The with the Companys External Auditor.
You can find details Group provides mentoring schemes and associated training of the Audit Committees role, activities and relationship and development programmes for high-potential candidates.
with the External Auditor in the Committee report on pages You can find numerical data relating to the gender diversity of 64 to 67. the Board, senior managers and employees in the CSR report on page 33.
Responsibility for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts During the year, the Group signed up to the Women in The Board is responsible for giving shareholders a fair, Finance Charter.
This Charter reflects the Governments, as balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys well as the Groups aspiration, to see gender balance at all position and prospects.
The Board is also responsible for levels across financial services firms.
maintaining adequate accounting records and ensuring compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
You can find an explanation from the Directors about their responsibility for preparing the financial statements in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 113.
The Companys External Auditor explains its responsibilities on page 121. www.
com 61 Corporate governance report continued The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report The BRC regularly reviews significant risks and how they might & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and affect the Groups financial position: comparisons to agreed understandable, and provides the information that shareholders risk appetites: and what the Group does to manage risks and stakeholders need to assess the Groups position and outside its appetite.
performance, business model and strategy.
In arriving at this The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an conclusion, the Board was supported by a number of processes, independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and including the following: effectiveness of the Groups controls.
It brings a systematic Management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts to and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the ensure consistency across sections, and a steering group effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance comprising a team of cross-functional senior management frameworks, and processes.
provided overall governance and co-ordination.
The Directors acknowledge that any internal control system A verification process, to ensure the content was can manage, but not eliminate, the risk of not achieving business factually accurate.
It can only provide reasonable, not absolute, Members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts assurance against material misstatement or financial loss.
of the Annual Report & Accounts.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews The Companys Disclosure Committee reviewed an the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Its advanced draft of the Annual Report & Accounts.
monitoring covers all material controls.
Principally, it reviews The Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit draft of the Annual Report & Accounts, before consideration function and the External Auditor.
This enables it to consider by the Board.
how to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Groups risk strategy.
Risk management and internal control systems Assessing principal risks The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
It has complied with the Code by The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating of the risks that it is willing to take to achieve its strategic and managing the principal risks the Group faces.
The Directors confirm that they robustly assessed the principal risks facing the Company, including risks that would The Board has established a management structure with threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
You can find a description of these risks, and their This control framework cascades through the divisions and management or mitigation, on pages 27 to 29. central functions, detailing clear responsibilities to ensure the Groups operations have appropriate controls.
This includes This confirmation is based on the Directors twice-yearly review controls relating to the financial reporting process.
and challenge of the Groups Material Risk Assessment MRA, and their review and approval of the Groups risk appetite The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model.
The MRA identifies risks quantified as having a You can find out more about this in the Risk management residual risk impact of 40 million or more based on a 1-in-200- section on pages 26 to 29. years likelihood period.
The quantifications are produced through stress and scenario analysis, and the IECM.
Each directorates The Board, with the assistance of the BRC and the Audit bottom-up risk identification and assessment supplements the Committee as appropriate, monitored the Companys risk MRA.
The MRA also plays a key role in developing the ORSA management and internal control systems that have been in and assessing the Groups strategic plan.
place throughout the year under review, and reviewed their effectiveness.
The monitoring and review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board and its Committees are overseeing the ongoing work intended to improve the performance across the board of the Groups IT systems, including focusing on risks relating to IT systems stability, cyber security and the internal control environment.
The Board was also supported in its review of the annual Control Environment Certification process.
As part of this, each directorate self-assessed its risks and whether its key controls were adequate and effective.
The Risk and Group Audit functions reviewed and challenged these findings.
The Group then combined the overall findings into a Group-level assessment, which the CEO approved.
The system reported on the controls nature and effectiveness, and other management processes that manage these risks.
62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting Remuneration The Board sees the Companys AGM as a good opportunity The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration for private shareholders to talk directly with the Board.
All Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Groups shareholders can attend the AGM if they wish.
All Directors Executive Directors and Chairman.
It recommends and attended the AGM in 2016. monitors the remuneration level and structure for senior executives.
You can find out more about this in the Directors At the AGM, the CEO presents the Groups financial results.
remuneration report starting on page 82.
The Chairman then invites shareholders to ask questions about the meetings business, before proposing the AGMs formal Relations with shareholders business.
All Directors will be put forward for re-election at the Engagement with shareholders AGM.
The Chairman, the Committee Chairs and the remaining Directors and members of the Executive Committee are also The Board believes that engaging regularly with the available to talk with shareholders at the end of the meeting.
Companys shareholders is vital to the Groups business.
Communicating and engaging with investors means the Board The outcome of the resolutions put to the AGM, including poll can stay up to date on opinions.
It also gives the Company results detailing votes for, against and withheld, are published the opportunity to answer questions and concerns.
on the Companys website once the AGM has concluded.
During 2016, the Board received regular updates from the Companys corporate brokers on the views of its institutional shareholders and, in addition, the Investor Relations team provided regular updates to the Board.
During the reporting period, the Company Secretary wrote to the Companys major shareholders, to offer them opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or the SID.
As part of the development of a revised remuneration policy for Executive Directors, to be put before shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee led a wide ranging consultation with key stakeholders.
Further details of this process can be reviewed on page 80 of this document and the resultant remuneration policy proposed is detailed on pages 100 to 109.
The Executive Directors meet frequently with investors and inform the Board about shareholder views.
This gives Directors the opportunity to discuss governance and strategy with shareholders.
The Chairman, SID and NEDs are available to attend meetings with major shareholders at their request.
The Investor Relations team helps Directors continue communicating with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
The Board receives regular updates on investor relations, including feedback from analysts.
The Companys corporate brokers also regularly attend Board meetings to inform the Board of shareholder views.
