Board of Directors Mike Biggs, External appointments Chairman of the Board Danuta is interim Chairman of Aldermore Group plc, a Non-Executive appointed April 2012 Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of PageGroup plc, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Old Mutual plc, a Non-Executive Director of PaddyPower N R Betfair plc and a Non-Executive Member of the Defence Board of the UK Ministry of Defence.
Jane Hanson, Independent NED Biography appointed December 2011 Mike is also Chair of the Nomination Committee.
He has over 40 years experience of the UK and international financial services sector.
A B C I He is a respected figure in the insurance industry and well regarded by City investors.
Mike was previously Chairman of Resolution, then a FTSE 100 UK life assurance business, and has acted as Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director of Resolution plc.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Aviva plc.
He is an Associate of the Institute of Biography Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Jane is Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
She has extensive experience of risk management, corporate governance and internal External appointments control.
She also has wide experience in developing and monitoring None.
customer and conduct risk frameworks.
She spent her early career with KPMG, working in the financial sector, Paul Geddes, later becoming responsible for delivering corporate governance, Chief Executive Officer internal audit and risk-management services in the north of England.
appointed August 2009 Jane has also held a number of executive roles, including Director of Audit, and Risk and Governance Director at Avivas UK Life business.
C She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments Jane is Chair of Reclaim Fund Ltd and an Independent Member of the Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd. She has her own financial sector Biography consulting business and is also a magistrate.
Paul is Chief Executive Officer.
He led one of the UKs largest retail banking businesses during a challenging period, improving its Mike Holliday-Williams, customer and financial performance against peers.
In 2009, this Managing Director, Personal Lines experience singled him out as a Chief Executive who could turn appointed February 2017 around Direct Line Group and lead its divestment from RBS Group.
After joining RBS Group in 2004 as Managing Director responsible for products and marketing, he became the Chief Executive Officer of RBS Groups mainland UK retail banking business.
Before joining RBS Group, Paul held various senior multi-channel retailing roles in the GUS and Kingfisher groups.
Paul started his career in marketing, with UK and European roles at Procter & Gamble.
Experience and qualifications External appointments Mike is Managing Director, Personal Lines.
He joined Direct Line Paul is the Deputy Chairman of the Association of British Insurers Board in 2014 and has over 10 years insurance industry experience.
He and a Non-Executive Director of Channel Four Television Corporation.
was previously Chief Executive Officer of RSA Groups Scandinavian businesses, Codan A S and Trygg-Hansa, and before that UK Danuta Gray, Managing Director of Personal Lines at RSA, responsible for the Independent NED MORETH N, Partnerships and the Broker businesses.
Before joining appointed February 2017 RSA, Mike had many general management, marketing and customer growth roles across several industries including the energy, telecoms and retail sectors.
He started his career at WHSmith plc, before R moving to various Centrica-owned businesses, including British Gas and Onetel.
External appointments Mike is a member of the Association of British Insurers General Insurance Council.
Biography Danuta was Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland until December 2012, having previously been its Chief Executive from 2001 to 2010.
During her nine year tenure as Chief Executive, she increased the customer base from just under 1 million to over 1.7 million.
Prior to Telefnica O2, Danuta held various senior positions within BT Group Key for Committee membership: from 1984 to 2001.
Audit Committee Investment Committee A I Board Risk Committee Nomination Committee B N CSR Committee Remuneration Committee C R 50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Sebastian James, Clare Thompson, Independent NED Independent NED appointed August 2014 appointed September 2012 C R A R Biography Biography Sebastian is Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Clare is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
She has extensive He has extensive experience in retail and consumer practice at large experience and knowledge of people and remuneration gained groups: and has a detailed understanding of the UK consumer markets, from her roles at PwC.
These included People Partner for Assurance products and brands.
Sebastian was previously Chief Executive Officer which focused on talent management and career development of Synergy Insurance Services Limited and subsequently gained wide planning, as well as involvement in the design and operation of retail experience as Strategy Director responsible for developing and remuneration structures across PwC UK.
She also has significant implementing the turnaround strategy at Mothercare.
External appointments Clare was a partner at PwC from 1988 to 2011.
During her 23 Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and years as a partner, she held several senior and high-profile roles, is also a trustee of the charities Save the Children and The DSG particularly in the insurance sector.
She is a Fellow of the Institute International Foundation.
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments Clare is a Non-Executive Director of British United Provident Andrew Palmer, Association Bupa and Retail Charity Bonds plc.
She is also a Independent NED Non-Executive member of the partnership board of Miller Insurance appointed March 2011 Services LLP, and Treasurer of the Disasters Emergency Committee.
A B I N R Dr Richard Ward, Independent NED and SID appointed January 2016 B N Biography Andrew is Chair of the Audit Committee and Investment Committee and was Senior Independent Director until 18 January 2016.
He has performed various senior roles in the financial services and insurance industries.
Additionally, he has insight into corporate governance developments and best practice in financial reporting.
In 2009, Biography Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, where he was the Dr Richard Ward is Senior Independent Director.
He was Chief Group Finance Director.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Executive of Lloyds of London, from 2006 to 2013.
Richard Accountants in England and Wales.
previously worked for over ten years at the London-based International External appointments Petroleum Exchange, the second largest energy trading exchange, Andrew is a Non-Executive Director of Royal London Mutual Insurance re-branded ICE Futures, as both Chief Executive Officer and ViceSociety Limited and Royal London Asset Management Limited.
He has extensive insurance industry experience and insight He is also a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel of into prudential regulation.
the Financial Reporting Council, a Trustee of the Royal School of Prior to the International Petroleum Exchange, Richard held a range Needlework and a Trustee and Treasurer of Cancer Research UK.
of senior positions at British Petroleum and was Head of Marketing & Business Development for energy derivatives worldwide at Tradition Financial Services.
John Reizenstein, Chief Financial Officer External appointments appointed December 2010 Richard is Executive Chairman of Cunningham Lindsey and Non-Executive Chairman of Brit Syndicates Ltd.
He also serves as a member of the PRA Practitioner Panel, Bank of England.
Biography Gender diversity of Board of Directors John is Chief Financial Officer.
He has extensive City and financial services experience, spending more than 20 years in investment Male 7 banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
Female 3 John was previously an Executive Director at the Co-operative Insurance Society, CIS General Insurance and The Co-operative Bank.
He was Chief Financial Officer of these organisations between 2003 and 2007, and subsequently Managing Director, Corporate and Markets.
External appointments John is a Trustee and Director of Farm Africa.
He is also an alternate representative of the Association of British Insurers on the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
