CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report MEMBERS o Stephen Hemsley Chair o Ebbe Jacobsen o Helen Keays The Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary Chairmans overview of the Nomination Committee and the Chief Executive is expected to The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that attend whenever necessary.
the Company has the right leadership, both on the Board and in the ranks of senior management.
This is a combination of continual review The majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent and monitoring of, and also responding to, specific situations as needed.
While the Chairman of the Board chairs the Nomination Committee in normal circumstances, he would abstain in Activities in 2016 matters relating to the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
During the year the Committee met to consider the following key matters: The number of meetings held in the year and attendance at those o the review of the performance of all the non-executive Directors meetings is shown on page 36. seeking re-election at the 2016 AGM: Purpose o the nomination of one of the independent non-executive Directors as The Nomination Committee has four principal duties: the Boards Senior Independent Director, following which Helen Keays was nominated to the Board and was appointed as the Senior o to ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments Independent Director with effect from 20 April 2016: and to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within theCompany and on the Board o the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer.
A brief was developed and to ensure progressive refreshing ofthe Board: and the Nomination Committee engaged Russell Reynolds, an executive search firm with no other connections to the Company, tomanage the o to lead the process for Board and Committee appointments and make selection process.
In addition, members of the Nomination Committee recommendations to the Board: received direct approaches from candidates wishing to be considered o where external recruitment is required, to evaluate the balance for the role and these candidates were considered alongside candidates ofskills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board identified through the executive search process.
Given the short tenure and, in light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and of previous CFOs, the Committee deliberated carefully over the pool capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Nomination of available candidates to ensure that the appointee had the right Committee would then oversee the selection process with the aim balance of skills and personal attributes to be successful in the role.
ofensuring that this results in an appointment made on merit, against Following this process, RachelOsbornes appointment was announced objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on on 11July 2016 andshe joined the Board on 10 October 2016. the Board, including gender: and Policy on diversity o to undertake formal performance evaluation of non-executive Directors It is important that the Directors have the appropriate balance who are standing for re-election and to ascertain whether the individuals ofskills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate sufficient toenable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities commitment to the role.
They play a key governance role in protecting shareholders The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee were reviewed by interests by ensuring that the Board and management are challenged, the Board and updated in February 2017.
These terms of reference are constructively and effectively, and it is important that they do so from available on the Companys investor relations website.
An important factor in achieving this effectiveness is drawing members from a range of backgrounds, which has been shown to help avoid group-think.
We are proud of the diversity in our business and we recruit and develop people regardless of their gender, race or any other characteristic.
We are of the view that it is in the interests of the Company to recruit and develop the very best people, drawn from the widest pool of talent.
The policy of the Board on recruitment is always to seek to appoint the best candidate to each role.
However, the Board seeks to achieve an appropriate balance of male and female members.
38 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
