STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Audit Committee MEMBERS o Steve Barber Chairman o Kevin Higgins o Helen Keays Steve Barber is a chartered accountant with considerable experience and o acquisition of interests in Iceland, Norway and Sweden the the Board has determined he has recent and relevant financial experience accounting forthese acquisitions was reviewed and approved and the which qualifies him to chair the Audit Committee.
Both Kevin Higgins Committee concurred with managements judgement that these represent and Helen Keays have considerable business experience which enables investments in associates as the Group does not have control under them to make a positive contribution to the Audit Committee.
the terms of the agreement.
Meetings of the Audit Committee have been attended by the Chairman These issues were discussed with the external auditor at both the planning ofthe Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and execution stages of the external audit and there were nosignificant theexternal auditor, the Company Secretary as Secretary to the Audit differences between managements and the external auditors conclusions.
Committee and other Directors and members of management by invitation.
New accounting standards The number of meetings held in the year and attendance at those meetings is shown on page 36.
As mentioned last year, the impact on the financial statements of the new accounting standard for leasing IFRS 16, which will be effective The Audit Committee has direct access to members of management for the year ending in December 2020, will have no net cash flow and the external auditor.
It is able to seek further professional advice impact but could significantly change the composition of the consolidated attheCompanys cost if deemed necessary.
balance sheet and phasing of the charges in the Income Statement, however the full impact assessment has yet to be completed.
In view Significant accounting issues ofthe back-to-back nature of the majority of the Groups leases from The Audit Committees reviews of the half and full year financial landlords and then to franchisees, the Audit Committee is advised that statements focused on the following areas of significance: the impact may not be as great asinitially anticipated.
The company has o consideration of the need to provide for a potentially significant yet to determine whether to adopt the new standard on a full retrospective employment tax liability that could arise from historic employee or modified retrospective basis and theAudit Committee will report next share schemes see note 1 to the accounts certain of the Groups year on the expected method ofadoption together with the anticipated historic share-based remuneration arrangements have been the subject impact of the standard on thefinancial statements.
of protective assessments from HMRC in relation to the employment The impact of the new accounting standard for statutory revenue recognition tax treatment.
The Group has received professional advice confirming IFRS 15, effective 1 January 2018, is not expected to have a significant that no provision is considered necessary and therefore no provision impact on the Groups revenues.
The majority of the Groups statutory has been made: revenues are derived from sales to and fees from franchisees and the o the appropriateness of assumptions in respect of material new standard isnot expected to impact the recording of these.
The Group accounting judgements this covered provisions for onerous leases has yet to determine whether the new standard would require the national and expenditure charged to the national advertising fund.
The Audit advertising fund to be consolidated in the profit and loss account, but if Committee, following confirmations from management and the external this were required the impact would only be to increase turnover and cost auditor, satisfied itself as to the reasonableness and consistency of of sales by 41.5m, with no impact on profit.
these assumptions when compared to prior years: IFRS 9, the new financial instruments standard will be applicable o the valuation of the Market Access Fee arising from last years from1January 2018.
An assessment of the impact of this standard transaction in Germany together with the accounting treatment isinprogress but initial estimates are that the overall impact is not forconversion costs in the German investment the Committee expected to be material.
received a third-party valuation of the market access fee and Presentations from management managements assessment ofthe quantum and treatment of the  conversion costs.
The Committee considered the underlying assumptions in the valuation to be reasonable: The Audit Committee received a number of presentations from management and professional advisers, including: o distributions made other than in compliance with the Companies Act following the failure to file interim parent company financial statements o IT and cyber security the Groups system sales are highly dependent at Companies House during the year, a thorough review of distributable onits e-commerce IT systems, particularly apps for mobile devices.
reserves was performed by management which identified that certain Although there can be no guarantee as to the resilience of the Groups distributions had been made otherwise than in accordance with the Act.
systems to outside attack, the Audit Committee was assured as to the This resulted in the circular to shareholders dated 1 December 2016 structure of the systems to minimise such impact: and approval by the shareholders of the resolutions to restore all parties to the position originally intended.
Strict procedures have been put in place to ensure that this omission will not be repeated: and Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee continued andconsiders that EY continues to possess the skills and experience Presentations from management required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently.
The Audit Committees  continued review of the effectiveness of EY as the external auditor is based on o risks and controls in view of the Groups rapid growth over the discussions with the senior finance team, the robustness of the audit, pastfew years, it does not have a formalised internal audit function.
the quality of reporting to the Audit Committee and reports published  PwC was engaged in 2015 to ensure that bythe FRC.
the Group complied with the new requirements of the UK Corporate EY has confirmed that in its professional judgement it is independent Governance Code in relation to internal controls and risk management.
within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the The results of its work highlighted that the Groups internal control objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
environment was informal and often undocumented.
PwC was therefore engaged to improve documentation, working in collaboration with The Audit Committee has held meetings with the external auditor without management.
Its work was completed by the 2015 year end and initial management and there is regular dialogue with the audit partner.
In view of the implementation of the Groups EY has been the Groups auditor since 1997 and no competitive tender new Enterprise Resource Planning system ERP during the year has been conducted during that time.
The lead audit partner is rotated see below, which has required a wholesale change in the processes every five years, with the last change being after the 2013 audit.
In and controls across the Group, the focus in the year has been on the compliance with the CMA Statutory Audit Services Order, the Group ERP implementation rather than reviewing individual aspects of control.
intends to put the audit out for tender during the 2017 financial year Documentation and processes to support the Boards assessment of soas to at least coincide with the rotation of the current audit partner.
principal risks have been in place throughout the year although work Accordingly, the Audit Committee has recommended the re-appointment continues to embed risk management processes into the Groups ofEY as external auditor to the Board, which has agreed to recommend operations and this will be a major focus during 2017: this at the 2017 AGM.
o enterprise resource planning system during the year, management The Audit Committee agrees the fees for the external auditor and has implemented a new ERP system which went live in September 2016. strict policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external The new systems are designed to assist in delivering operational auditor which can be found on the Companys website.
These include efficiency gains, improve controls and accommodate the continued specific pre-approvals for proposed work and fees, a prohibition on certain growth of the business.
Implementation of major changes to operating services and a restriction on total non-audit fees as a percentage of the systems will always entail a degree of uncertainty.
Early indications total audit and audit-related services, except in exceptional circumstances.
are that the systems are working satisfactorily.
Management will continue to evaluate operation of the new systems and modify the During the year, the level of non-audit fees payable to EY for 2016 are processes and controls based on experience gained from using as set out below: thesystems in a live environment: and 000 o taxation the Group engaged FTI to assist in the management Total estimated audit and audit-related fees 434 ofitstax affairs in 2016 and believes that there has been a significant Non-audit fees: improvement in the processes necessary to ensure compliance with local legislation.
Market survey 160 Due diligence for German investment 20 Brexit Assurance services 6 The impact of the UKs vote to leave the European Union is at present Total non-audit services 186 difficult to quantify but the majority of the raw materials purchased by the Group are inevitably impacted by world prices and exchange rates.
The market survey was performed by an affiliate of EY which was best As a result, it is likely that raw material prices will increase.
It is anticipated placed to perform that work as it had provided similar services in 2015 that such increases would be passed to franchisees, although it is not and was able to undertake the assignment cost effectively by building possible to determine what the effect of such price rises might be on on work undertaken during the previous assignment.
The Audit Committee believes that the non-audit fees were appropriate Internal audit inthe circumstances, particularly as EY has considerable knowledge The Group does not have a formal internal audit department.
This is a ofthe Groups business.
reflection of the small number of Group personnel and the rapid growth Fair, balanced, understandable of the Group in recent years.
However, the Groups operational auditors regularly audit franchisees to support compliance with franchise agreements  and brand standards.
During the year the Committee considered the The Audit Committee has provided advice to the Board on whether the Groups use of internal audit services and what structure would be most Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and appropriate for the Groups operations.
The Committee concluded that understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders an outsourced model would be most appropriate and the management to assess the Companys position and performance, business model team will be progressing engagement of a third-party provider in 2017. and strategy.
Each Director was also asked to provide this confirmation.
When doing so, both the Committee and the individual Directors were Going concern and viability statement provided with a set of questions designed to test the quality of reporting On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups and asked to satisfy themselves that the levels of disclosure were appropriate.
projected cash flows, facilities and covenants as well as reviewing the assumptions underlying the viability statement and concluded that Terms of reference itcould recommend to the Board that it should be able to make the The terms of reference for the Audit Committee were reviewed by the relevant statements.
Board during the year and revised in February 2017.
These terms of reference are available on the Companys investor relations website.
External auditor The Audit Committee has reviewed the independence, objectivity andeffectiveness of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, 40 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
