CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am pleased to introduce this section of theAnnual Report.
The Board is committed The Board plays a vital role in toensuring the Groups corporate governance arrangements are effective, as this is how the developing and maintaining the Board is able to direct and control the Group, provide strategic leadership and effective oversight Groups culture and values by and maintain a framework within which the setting the tone from the top Executive leadership team can conduct its day-to-day operational management of and determining the behaviours thebusiness.
expected by the Board and The Board plays a vital role in developing and maintaining the Groups culture and values by ensuring that ethical standards setting the tone from the top and determining the behaviours expected by the Board and are maintained.
ensuring that ethical standards are maintained.
In so doing, the Board aims to strike the right balance between entrepreneurial leadership and the prudent and effective management of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code risk, both of which are essential to maintaining Dominos Pizza Group plc the Company is incorporated and has apremium listing in the UK.
As a result, it is required to report on a sustainable business and creating value itscompliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code forshareholders.
orexplain why it has chosen not to comply.
For the year ended 25December 2016, it was subject to the edition of the Code published Our corporate governance framework continues bythe Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, which is to evolve and improve.
The following report available from www.
setsout the how the Board has applied the The Code contains 18 main principles, which are expanded on in principles of good governance during the year.
supporting principles and detailed provisions.
Together, these set out the key components of effective Board practice, and we explain in this report how we have applied these during the year.
Where appropriate, Stephen Hemsley some explanations are contained in the Nomination Committee report, Non-executive Chairman the Audit Committee report, the Directors remuneration report and the 8 March 2017 Directors report.
The Company did not comply fully with Code provision A.
In last years report we stated our intent to nominate one of the independent non-executive Directors as the Senior Independent Director and Helen Keays was appointed as the SID on 20 April 2016.
The Board does not believe that this non-compliance created risk for shareholders.
All other provisions of the Code were met in full throughout the year.
32 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leadership our governance framework The Company is led by the Board, whose members are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to management, led by the Chief Executive Officer.
The role of the Board can be summarised as follows: Decide on the longer-term aims Decide on the short-term goals o Agree the Companys businessmodel o Review and approve strategy, providing constructive challengeasnecessary o Agree an appetite for risk o Ensure the necessary financial and human resources o Set values and standards fortheCompany areinplace o Provide entrepreneurial leadership o Agree business plans andbudgets o Appoint the CEO o Review the risk management process and internal controlenvironment Report to, and engage with, shareholders Monitor and manage performance o Monitor the integrity offinancial information andthe reporting o Monitor managements performance in delivering thestrategy, ofperformance generally and challenge orsupport as necessary o Report to shareholders onbusiness performance o Approve major expenditure andother commitments o Ensure other external obligations are met, including reporting o Monitor the risk environment in which the Company operates tootherstakeholders and review internal controls o Understand shareholders views and act as necessary o Determine the remuneration ofExecutive Directors andseniormanagement o Oversee the governance of the Company and Group to ensure shareholders interests are protected Within the delegation framework described above, the Board retains The Board is supported in its work by three Committees: certain key decision-making responsibilities: o setting and approving overall Group strategy: THE BOARD o setting a risk appetite, within which management is required tooperate: o reviewing and approving business plans and budgets: o reviewing and approving major business decisions: o reviewing major risks and the implementation of mitigation strategies: AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE o reviewing the functioning of the internal control environment: o monitoring operational and trading results against previously approved plans: Terms of reference for these Committees, which are regularly reviewed by the Board, are available on the Companys investor relations website o reviewing and approving significant contractual and other investors.
co. uk as is the formal schedule of matters reserved commitments, including capital expenditure: for the Boards decision.
o reviewing corporate governance arrangements: o reviewing succession plans for Board, Executive Director and senior management positions: and o exercising its control by an annual review of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
As noted above, the Board is responsible for determining the nature andextent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It also retains oversight of the risk management and internal control systems with the aim that these are sound and protect shareholders interests.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Leadership our governance framework continued Chairman The role of the Chairman is: Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities o providing leadership to and ensuring the effectiveness of the Board: for the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the internal control o ensuring that agendas emphasise strategic, rather than routine, issues environment and risk management systems, managing the relationship and that the Directors receive accurate and clear information well with the external auditor and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity ahead of the time when a decision is required: of the external and internal auditors.
o promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate, and Nomination Committee facilitating an effective contribution by the non-executive Directors: The Nomination Committee oversees the recruitment of the Directors o arranging informal meetings of the Directors, including meetings and senior management and advises on matters relating to the Boards ofthe non-executive Directors: membership and Committee appointments, including reviewing succession plans.
The Nomination Committee also regularly reviews and monitors o ensuring effective communication by the Group with its shareholders: the overall skills and experience of the Board.
o arranging for the Chairs of the Committees to be available to answer questions at the AGM and for all Directors to attend: and Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines the terms and conditions o taking the lead in providing a properly constructed, full, formal ofemployment, remuneration and rewards of the Executive Directors, andtailored induction programme and ongoing development for the Chairman and the leadership teams.
aims to offer an appropriate balance of fixed and performance-related, Chief Executive Officer immediate and deferred remuneration, but without overpaying or creating the risk of rewards for failure.
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is: o leading the development of the Groups strategic direction Board composition andobjectives: The Boards preferred structure is to be led by a non-executive Chairman, to have high calibre Executive Directors to drive the performance of the o identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals and leading business under the leadership of a Chief Executive Officer, and to have geographic diversification initiatives: a number of non-executive Directors drawn from arange of backgrounds, o reviewing the Groups organisational structure and recommending whose role is to provide constructive challenge.
Our aim isthat the changes as appropriate: independent non-executive Directors always constitute at least half of the Board.
This structure and the integrity of the individual Directors should o identifying and executing new business opportunities: ensure that no single individual or group dominates thedecision-making o overseeing risk management and internal control: process.
There is a common purpose of promoting the overall success of the Group with a unified vision of the definition of success, the core strategic o managing the Groups risk profile, including the health and safety principles, and the understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk.
performance of the Group: Non-executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms subject o implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees: toannual re-election by shareholders and the offer of any further o building and maintaining an effective Group leadership team: and termof appointment after year six would be weighed carefully by the Nomination Committee, which keeps the need for progressive refreshing o ensuring the Chairman and the Board are alerted to forthcoming of the Board particularly to maintain an appropriate balance of skills complex, contentious or sensitive issues affecting the Group.
and experience and orderly succession to key appointments under Senior Independent Director continual review.
The SID focuses on: Independence o meeting regularly with the independent non-executive Directors: The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive Directors annually.
In assessing the independence of each Director, the Board o providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an considers whether each is independent in character and judgement intermediary for other Directors: andwhether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely o being available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact toaffect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Officer has failed to address or would be inappropriate: and Board roles and responsibilities There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and the o holding annual meetings with non-executive Directors without the Chief Executive Officer, which is recorded in a document approved by Chairman present.
the Board in September 2015 and summarised below.
In essence, the Non-executive Director Chairman manages the Board and the CEO manages the business.
Importantly, no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The role of a non-executive Director is: The Chairman meets with the Chief Executive Officer at least once a o providing creative contribution to the Board by way month, including visits to pizza stores, and they are in contact between : these occasions as required.
The Chairman also has separate discussions o bringing independence, impartiality, experience, specialist with the non-executive Directors.
knowledgeand a different perspective to the Board: o providing guidance on matters of concern and strategy: 34 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS o overseeing risk management and internal control: The current non-executive Directors tenure reflects our approach ofprogressively refreshing the Board: o protecting shareholder and stakeholder interests: o constructively challenging the Executive Directors and monitoring CURRENT YEAR OF NON-EXECUTIVE Executive performance: TENURE, AT 25 DECEMBER 2016 o supporting the Executive team in shaping and delivering the strategic 9 goals of the business: o optimising shareholder return and protection of shareholder assets: and 7 o ensuring the Board is able to work together effectively and make 5 maximum use of its time.
3 3 Diversity 2 The Boards policy on diversity is explained in the Nomination Committee report on page 38.
Steve Kevin Ebbe Helen Stephen Colin 1 2 Barber Higgins Jacobsen Keays Hemsley Halpern Leadership in action This section of the corporate governance report explains how the Board 1 Stephen Hemsley was appointed as non-executive Chairman in March 2010.
However, he was first appointed to an Executive Director role in 1998 and as a has fulfilled its duties and obligations during the year under review.
Director of the Company on incorporation in 1999.
Full details of Stephens history Board membership with the Company can be found in the Directors biographies on page 31.
2 Colin Halpern acquired the Dominos Pizza master franchise for the UK and The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Ireland in 1993 and has held a variety of senior Executive roles within the Group.
ChiefExecutive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, a non-executive He became a non-executive Director in December 2007.
Full details of Colins Vice-Chairman and four independent non-executive Directors, one history with the Company can be found in the Directors biographies on page 31. ofwhom acts as the Senior Independent Director.
The names and biographical details of the serving Directors, and the offices held Independence bythem, can be found on page 31.
The Board has considered the independence of the current non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman.
It does not believe that Colin Halpern We believe that the Board is of sufficient size that the requirements of is independent in view of his long service with the Company including his the business and good governance can be met and normal succession former Executive responsibilities and the contractual relationship with challenges managed, but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
the Group in which he is involved.
Board composition Board balance The eight continuing members of the Board on 25 December 2016 The Board composition creates a majority of independent non-executive weredrawn from a range of backgrounds and gained their experience Directors excluding the Chairman, with the current position being: ina range of relevant industry sectors: PROFESSIONAL SKILLS BOARD BALANCE Non-independent Directors 3 Accounting 3 Colin Halpern Retail management 4 David Wild Rachel Osborne Marketing 1 Chairman 1 38 12 50 z38 50 12 z Stephen Hemsley Independent non-executive Directors 4 PRIMARY EXPERIENCE Steve Barber Kevin Higgins Consumer retail 4 Ebbe Jacobsen Food retail 3 Helen Keays Professional services 1 50 38 12 z GENDER BALANCE Male 6 Female 2 75 25 z Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Leadership in action continued Board effectiveness We believe that there are five key steps in creating an effective Board: Board Committees Membership of the three Board Committees during the year ended 1.
Recruit the right people 25December 2016 was as follows: We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment Audit Nomination Remuneration of new Directors to the Board, overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Committee Committee Committee For each appointment, we develop an objective brief summarising the Stephen Hemsley Chairman role and the skills and experience required and use an appropriate Colin Halpern head-hunting firm with proven expertise in the relevant field.
As noted above, we take care to ensure that we recruit on merit, from the widest David Wild possible range of backgrounds, recognising the benefits of diversity, Rachel Osborne andthe search firms weuse are signatories to the Code of Conduct for Kevin Higgins Member Chairman executive search firms.
Before confirming an appointment, we check Steve Barber Chairman Member whether the preferred individual can commit to the time expected Ebbe Jacobsen Member including, in the case of an appointment to the chairmanship, the Helen Keays Member Member Member needtobe available in the event of a crisis.
Make sure Directors have the right tools Senior Independent Director All Directors go through a tailored, formal induction process on Helen Keays was appointed the Senior Independent Director on joiningthe Board, including the opportunity to meet major shareholders.
The aim of this is to ensure that they understand the Company and its Attendance at Board and Committee meetings business model, our strategy, the drivers of value in the business and the key risks we face, and that they understand the legal and regulatory The Board is scheduled to meet seven times in each year.
Additional environment in which we operate and their own personal obligations.
meetings are arranged as necessary which do not necessarily require Directors are expected to update and refresh their skills and knowledge the full participation of all Directors.
Committees meet as necessary on an ongoing basis, and to continue to build their familiarity with the todischarge their duties.
Attendance of individual Directors at meetings Company and its business throughout their tenure.
The Company will of the Board including additional meetings and its Committees during provide the necessary resources for developing and updating its the year ended 25 December 2016 was as follows: Directors knowledge and capabilities, including access to our Audit Nomination Remuneration operations, staff and franchisees.
Board Committee Committee Committee All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, Stephen Hemsley 14 of 14 3 of 3 1 andthe opportunity to seek independent professional advice at the Colin Halpern 13 of 14 Companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their David Wild 14 of 14 responsibilities as Directors or as members of Board Committees.
Rachel Osborne 3 of 3 IfDirectors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running 1 Kevin Higgins 11 of 14 3 of 3 5 of 5 ofthe Company or a proposed action, they can require that their 1 Steve Barber 12 of 14 3 of 3 5 of 5 concerns are recorded in the Board minutes, or provide a written 1 Ebbe Jacobsen 12 of 14 3 of 3 statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
1, 2 Helen Keays 12 of 14 3 of 3 2 of 3 5 of 5 The Board is supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties effectively.
This is 1 All Directors attended the scheduled Board meetings.
There were seven unscheduled provided in good time ahead of all meetings and decisions, and Board meetings held during the year and some of the Directors were not available non-executive Directors are encouraged to seek clarification from for all of these unscheduled meetings due to other diary commitments.
management whenever they feel appropriate.
2 Helen Keays did not attend the Nomination Committee meeting at which her appointment as Senior Independent Director was discussed and recommended 3.
Identify and manage any conflicts of interest to the Board.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts Each non-executive Director has committed to the Company that ofinterest.
However, the Companys Articles of Association allow the theyare able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge Board to authorise conflicts, where felt appropriate.
Any Director who their responsibilities effectively.
Any additional appointments they are becomes aware that he or she is in a situation which does or could contemplating taking on are discussed with the Chairman in advance, create a conflict of interest, or has an interest in an existing or proposed including the likely time commitment and whether these could in any transaction in which the Company also has an interest, is required to way constitute a conflict of interest.
These matters are formally reviewed notify the Board in writing as soon as possible.
The interests of new by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised ifappropriate by the Board at the time of their appointment.
Meetings of non-executive Directors The non-executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet without No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in theExecutive Directors being present.
In addition, the independent relation to the Companys business at any time during the year or to non-executive Directors, led by the SID, meet during the year as thedate of this report.
needed, including to review the performance of the Chairman.
Executive Directors are permitted, and where felt appropriate even encouraged, to hold non-executive directorships outside the Group.
However, the Board would not agree to a full-time Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
36 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board considers that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as 4.
Formally check on effectiveness a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance in each year.
It also reviews the performance of the Board performance, business model and strategy.
Details of how we do this Committees and the Nomination Committee reviews the performance of are also explained in the Audit Committees report.
Board and Committee evaluation considers the balance of skills, experience including familiarity with the Company and its business Remuneration and independence of the Group taken as a whole, and also the diversity, There are formal and transparent procedures for developing policy including gender, of the Directors.
The process also examines how the onExecutive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of Directors work together as a unit, and explores other factors relevant to individual Directors, which are overseen by the Remuneration Committee effectiveness.
The Chairman acts on the results of the performance and are explained in its report from page 41 onwards.
Thisreport explains evaluations as necessary including, where appropriate, proposing new how Executive Directors remuneration is designedto promote the long-term members be appointed to the Board or seeking the resignation of Directors.
success of the Company and showshow the performance-related Individual evaluation aims to determine whether each Director continues elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role Relations with shareholders including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings andany other duties.
We maintain a dialogue with shareholders throughout the year, whichweintend to be based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
In 2016 the Board evaluation process was facilitated by an independent The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, third party.
Three potential service providers were approached for and the Company Secretary all variously and routinely engage with proposals to conduct the evaluation exercise, and Independent Audit analysts, institutional and retail shareholders and potential investors.
Limited IAL was selected for the assignment.
IAL reviewed the Board Our aim is toensure that there are strong relationships, through which and Committee papers over an annual cycle and then conducted an we can understand those parties views on material issues.
Feedback is interview with each of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
They provided to the Board, particularly where there are issues or concerns compiled a report summarising their findings relating to the performance and the Companys brokers also provides independent feedback from of the Board, the Chairman and the Committees, and they made a number investors.
All brokers notes are circulated to the entire Board in order of recommendations.
The report was discussed with the Chairman and that the Board maintains an understanding of market perceptions of Senior Independent Director and then presented to the Board by IAL.
In addition, the Chairman, the Chair of the Remuneration The findings were discussed and the Board agreed a number of areas Committee and the Company Secretary meet with major shareholders, offocus for 2017, several of which reflect an ongoing process of enhancing principally relating to remuneration and governance issues.
These include: non-executive Directors are available for meetings with shareholders o making changes to the strategic development process: onrequest to the Company Secretary.
o improving the content of Board packs and the dissemination The AGM is treated as an opportunity to communicate with all of ofinformation to the Board: ourshareholders, and their participation is encouraged.
The Chairs ofallBoard Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer o arranging greater interaction of the non-executive Directors with the questions.
An explanatory circular containing the notice of meeting is wider management team and employee community: sent to shareholders at least 20 working days beforehand, with separate o increasing focus on Executive succession planning votes being offered on each substantive issue.
All proxy votes received are andtalentmanagement: counted with the balance for and against and any votes withheld announced at the meeting and published on the Companys investor relations website o ensuring that management continues to embed the risk framework after the meeting.
co. uk, also contains throughout the organisation: ahost of up-to-date information on the Group.
o increasing oversight of the internal control framework: and o making changes to the Boards meeting calendar to make the most effective use of Board time during both formal and informal Board meetings and non-executive Directors meetings.
The Chairman reviewed the performance of the individual Directors, informed by observations made by IAL, and the Senior Independent Director undertook a review of the Chairmans performance, providing feedback to him.
Ask shareholders to confirm appointments Ultimately, the Directors main responsibility is to promote the long-term success of the Company, acting in shareholders best interests.
All of our Directors submit themselves for re-election at each AGM and we provide shareholders with sufficient information in the meeting papers for them to decide whether their commitment and performance warrant a further year in office.
At the 2016 AGM, each serving Director was re-elected, with votes in favour exceeding 97% of those cast in all cases.
Accountability to shareholders The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they apply the principles of sound corporate reporting, risk management and internal control and how the Company and Board maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditor.
These responsibilities are overseen by the Audit Committee and are explained in its report from page 39 onwards.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 37
