CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN First-class governance along withfirst-class management remain key to delivering Draxs new strategy of creating sustainable value across theGroups activities.
Dear Shareholder We also continue to work hard to ensure that the Board is diverse I am delighted to have completed my first full year as Chairman of the in its widest sense, including gender diversity.
Currently, 14% of your Board of your Company during 2016, and to be making my report on directors are female.
This will remain one of the factors that the Board governance during that period.
takes into consideration in making appointments in the future.
Directorate changes Succession planning and diversity The past year has been an important year of change in the Board.
Andy Maintaining and improving the effectiveness of the Groups succession Koss, Chief Executive of Drax Power our power generation business planning process will be key to the success of the business in the was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016, and Will Gardiner who future.
Selecting and supporting the right individuals to lead the was appointed Chief Financial Officer in November 2015, has delivery of the Groups new strategy, together with ensuring that the completed his first full year of Board membership.
Board is constantly refreshed, are essential parts of this process.
I am delighted to say that both Will and Andy have made a strong, The Board and I are confident that many of our future leaders are dynamic and positive contribution to the Companys leadership in already working within the Group.
That is one of the reasons why 2016, along with playing a significant role in the development of our during 2017, in order to ensure that we identify and support our next new strategy.
generation of leaders, we will be implementing a new people strategy.
Lastly, Melanie Gee resigned from the Board following the Annual Along with the continued work of the Nominations Committee, this will General Meeting AGM in April 2016.
I thank her once again for the help us to make the most of our human capital and continue to create many valuable contributions she made during her three years as opportunities for talented individuals with the right skills to take the adirector.
Company forward over the years to come.
Non-executive directors The current Board is performing strongly, and has the right expertise The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sees one of the and experience to provide excellent leadership.
However, as our new significant roles of non-executive directors as providing constructive strategy comes into place and the Group grows, we may find that we challenge and help in developing proposals on strategy.
In this regard, one of the important elements of my role as Chairman The Board and I are completely committed to ensuring that the Group is to ensure that the Board benefits from the skills and experience of has access to the brightest talents and the best leaders to deliver our non-executive directors who can strengthen its ability to deliver the strategy, whether those individuals come from within the Drax family leadership that your Company needs.
One of the ways we ensure this happens is through linking the leadership team who helped develop the new strategy directly to We therefore seek to appoint forward-looking non-executive the senior executives responsible for its day-to-day delivery.
directors from a diverse range of relevant backgrounds, who can bring experience and good judgement to the Board discussions.
To complement and widen our non-executive skills, we will look to recruit two non-executive directors in 2017 who can support the Board.
62 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The UK Corporate Governance Code and governance at Drax Board and committee evaluation Drax reports against the 2014 version of the Code.
In 2016, we ran a In order to continue to make the Board more effective, I commissioned tender process for the appointment of auditors as discussed in the in 2016 an externally facilitated evaluation of the performance of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
I am pleased to inform you that we Board and its committees.
This will help ensure that the Company is were fully compliant with all of the Codes provisions through the entire even better placed to meet the challenges it will face in the years to period of the reporting year and until the date of approval of this report.
You can find details of this process and its conclusions in the report of the Nominations Committee on page 74.
One of its As well as ensuring that we maintain the correct blend of skills and conclusions was for the Board to invite advisers and external experts knowledge on the Board, we also continue to strive to improve the way to selectively attend Board meetings to share their perspective on we work together to overcome the challenges the business faces, and thebusiness and the markets in which we operate.
to develop and deliver strategies for future success.
Key areas of focus This means that we are constantly reviewing our governance Following the completion of our project to become a predominantly structures and processes to ensure that they are fit for purpose, and biomass-fuelled generator, and the approval of our Contract for that good governance remains at the heart of the Group.
This is not Difference CfD, the Board in 2016 was firmly focused on developing a only about doing the right thing, but also about doing it the right new corporate strategy designed to deliver success for the long-term.
Over a number of years, we have established a strong set of values within the Group.
We express these as the acronym HEAT, At the heart of this strategy is the creation of a long-term, higher standing for honest, energised, achieving and together.
They provide quality, diversified earnings base, strongly linked to the Companys aclear behavioural and ethical compass for everyone within the continued commitment to a lower-carbon future for UK energy.
The Groupin our daily working lives.
Board identified two major opportunities to realise that strategy in 2016.
The first, the acquisition of Opus Energy Opus, gives us access The following section concerns the structure and processes that to a successful, established and profitable retail trading base providing support our corporate governance and the ways in which they have electricity and gas to small to medium-sized businesses across the UK, operated during the year ended 31 December 2016. which will complement our existing offering through Haven Power Haven.
The second comprises four projects to build rapid-response My role as Chairman Open Cycle Gas Turbines OCGT on sites in England and Wales, As Chairman, my brief is to make sure that your Company always has providing the flexible supply of electricity that the growth of aBoard which works effectively, efficiently and collectively under my intermittent renewables requires, ensuring that the UK system remains leadership.
One key part in achieving this is ensuring that the Board stable.
As ever, we will remain committed to advocating the benefits of benefits from the right dynamics and good, open communication.
sustainable biomass in the shape of compressed wood pellets.
This depends on every director playing his or her part to contribute After a full year in post, I am even more confident that Drax Group has fully to discussions and debates, and to provide constructive challenge the right team in place to lead today, and is identifying the talented to their colleagues.
Thanks to the diverse range of expertise and men and women who will lead tomorrow.
experience represented on our Board, I am pleased to report that it isfunctioning very effectively.
The relationship between Chairman and Chief Executive is crucial for the successful management of any company.
In my role as Chairman, Ispeak frequently with Dorothy Thompson, our Group Chief Executive.
We regularly discuss the issues being dealt with by the executive team, Philip Cox CBE and any that need to be discussed by the Board.
I set the agenda for Chairman the Board, and make sure that sufficient time is allowed to cover any matters we need to consider including the discussion, formulation and execution of strategy.
It is also part of my remit to understand how shareholders view the performance of the business.
The Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and our brokers keep the Board very closely appraised of shareholders views.
In addition, I do personally engage with shareholders whenever I, the Board, or individual shareholders feel thiswould be helpful.
63 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
