CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee is crucial to ensuring that the Board has the right blend of expertise and experience and that it is ready to face the challenges ofthe future.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Chairman keep under review the Boards structure, size and composition Philip Cox CBE including requisite skills, knowledge and experience it requires : Committee members ensure a rigorous succession planning process is in place for the directors and other senior managers, including the identification of Tim Cobbold, David Lindsell, Tony Thorne candidates from both within and outside the Group.
Attending by invitation Group Chief Executive, Head of Corporate HR Number of meetings held in 2016 3 Terms of reference The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
Attendance in 2016 The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committees Maximum Number of % of proceedings to the following Board meeting.
possible meetings meetings Date appointed a member meetings attended attended The Committee has an annual programme of work which is designed Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 3 3 100% to fulfil its principal duties.
This programme reviews: Philip Cox 22 April 2015 3 3 100% 1 Melanie Gee 1 January 2013 2 2 100% Re-election and appointment of directors The Committee met on 14 February 2017, following the completion of the 2016 Board David Lindsell 1 December 2008 3 3 100% evaluation and performance review process, described at the end Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 3 3 100% of this report and determined that all of the directors who are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, Note: being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Board evaluation 1 Melanie Gee retired as a director and Committee member on 20 April 2016. and performance review concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and to perform effectively.
Size, structure and composition of the Board At its meeting in February 2016, the Committee concluded that the Board, constituted with three executive directors, four independent non-executive directors and a chairman who was independent on appointment, was appropriate for the Company at the time.
The Board further considered the composition of the Board at its meeting in April 2016 following Melanie Gees retirement from the 74 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Board at the close of the AGM.
Search processes are in progress for In 2016, two of our non-executive directors, Tim Cobbold and Tony two new non-executive directors with specific backgrounds in Thorne, were both appointed for a third term in addition to David retail and sustainability.
At the Executive Committee level, the Lindsell who was appointed for a third term in 2014.
The Board has Committee reviewed the position of Chief Executive Officer of made this decision mindful of the Code which states that: Haven following Peter Bennells intention to retire.
The Committee put in place a specific appraisal process to assess the suitability of Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified terms Jonathan Kini to succeed Peter and this ultimately led to the subject to re-election and to statutory provisions relating to the appointment of Jonathan Kini as Havens CEO in September.
Any term beyond six years for a non-executive director should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and should Membership of Board committees It is the Boards policy to invite take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
all independent non-executive directors to join the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration committees.
The Committee The reason why the Board has taken the step to appoint the nonreviewed this policy, and also the composition of the Board executive directors named above for a third term is because the Group committees in light of Melanie Gees retirement following the AGM.
is at a key stage between the formulation of a new corporate strategy It was noted that the committees remained compliant with the and its delivery.
The Board feels that their continued service is vital to provisions of the Code and thus no changes to the committees ensure that the Group benefits from the right blend of expertise and were recommended.
continuity of experience in its senior leadership as it makes and delivers these strategic moves.
Succession planning The Committee reviews the succession plan at least annually.
The Group has a well-established and robust Renewal and re-election succession planning process, which covers all Executive Committee The Articles provide that one-third of directors shall retire by rotation members and their direct reports, as well as other individuals within each year and are eligible for re-election by shareholders at the the Group who have been identified as having longer-term potential AGM.
In accordance with the Code, the Company will continue to for senior roles.
In the Committees opinion, the plan is well prepared propose all directors for annual re-election.
Accordingly, each of Tim and appropriate for the size of the Groups business and Cobbold, Philip Cox, Will Gardiner, Andy Koss, David Lindsell, Dorothy management structure, and there is a range of good candidates for Thompson and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, senior roles.
Any potential gaps are the subject of both internal being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
development plans and or selected external recruitment.
Following the evaluation and review of the Board described below, Board diversity In addition to the regular programme of work and Iconcluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election the externally facilitated evaluation mentioned below, the continue to demonstrate commitment, management and industry Committee also considered the question of Board diversity in its expertise in their particular role and continue to perform effectively.
widest sense, and gender diversity in particular.
The Company has The re-election of each director is recommended by the Board.
Details actively engaged with initiatives promoted by the Department for of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy to improve gender appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table diversity at Board level.
The Committee recognises the strength on page 103. that can be achieved through diversity in the Groups management.
In particular, the Boards policy is to ensure that the proportion of The executive directors service contracts and non-executive women is one of the considerations for Board and senior directorsletters of appointment are available for inspection by prior management appointments.
That policy is implemented as part of arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys the recruitment and selection process.
Further details of gender registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue diversity in the Group are included in the Employees section of the of the AGM, prior to the meeting, details of which are contained in the Sustainability review on page 44.
Non-executive directors It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment, and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
The Board will not normally extend the aggregate period of service of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years, and any proposal made to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond six years is subject to review.
75 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Board evaluation and performance reviews During the year, the Chairman held a meeting with the nonThe continued effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, Group.
Drax is committed to continually improving the effectiveness of and the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the Board and its Committees.
This Committee took forward two key the non-executive directors without the Chairman being initiatives to further improve that effectiveness in 2016. present, as required by provision A.
The first of these followed on from the internal Board evaluation Directors development initiated by the Committee during 2015.
In 2016 we conducted an The Board is committed to the development of all employees externally facilitated valuation of the Board.
and directors and has reviewed, and will periodically continue to review, each directors development requirements and Boardroom Review Limited was chosen to facilitate and conduct the make appropriate arrangements to address them.
Boardroom Review Limited does not provide any other directors receive a full induction programme including wider services to the Board.
The recommended format was a facilitated background briefings on the Groups activities, meetings workshop where all the directors and the company secretary took with key managers and visits to the Groups sites.
Ahead of this, each of the directors and the company secretary completed a detailed questionnaire providing information about In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites howthey viewed the role of the Board and how it functions.
In 2016 the Board visited operational and administrative sites in the US, and over a three-day period The workshop took place in November and helped identify current carried out visits to Drax Biomasss operations and reviewed strengths, future challenges, and provided valuable insights to the wider sustainability programme and activities.
Periodically, enhance the Boards overall effectiveness.
It was preceded and the non-executive directors also meet with senior management informed by conversations between Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom to be briefed on the Groups business and specific Board Review Limited and individual directors.
training days are arranged covering key relevant topics.
Following the workshop session, the Board reviewed the strengths This report was reviewed and approved by the Nominations ofand challenges for the Board as well as the key themes that arose Committee on 15 February 2017. during the discussions.
Recommendations for the future included selective invitations to advisers and outside experts to periodically present to the Board on key business and governance issues, and allowing more time on Board agendas for non-executive directors to discuss key issues without executive management present.
The Committee also initiated a review of the effectiveness of the Philip Cox CBE Board, its committees and individual directors during 2016.
The review Chairman of the Nominations Committee concluded that all directors have a positive view of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and that all directors continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
There is clear alignment of the directors views of the Groups priorities and agreement that the key decisions of the Board focus on those priorities.
Steps have been identified to improve processes and operation of meetings to facilitate greater focus on priorities and strategic matters.
Measures have also been identified that will improve the quality of information provided to the Board to enhance its consideration of risk impacts and mitigation measures.
76 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016
