GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Sound risk management and internal control systems are essential to enable the Group toachieve its objectives, whileproper accountability to shareholders requires fair and balanced performance reporting.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
Chairman Its primary functions are to: David Lindsell monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other Committee members information provided to shareholders: review significant financial reporting issues and judgements Tim Cobbold and Tony Thorne, both of whom are independent contained in the financial statements: non-executive directors.
advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: The Board is satisfied that the Committees membership has the maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups external recent and relevant financial experience required by the Code.
auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit process: Attending by invitation review the systems of internal control and risk management: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function, Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial review the internal audit plan and all internal audit reports and Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Finance Manager, review and monitor managements responses to the findings and Head ofGroup Risk and Internal Audit, External auditor Deloitte.
recommendations of the internal audit function.
Number of meetings held in 2016 4 Terms of reference The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
Attendance in 2016 The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees deliberations Maximum Number of % of to the following Board meeting.
The minutes of each Committee possible meetings meetings Date appointed a member meetings attended attended meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 4 4 100% In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of 1 Melanie Gee 1 January 2013 2 2 100% the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Company Secretary and their David Lindsell 1 December 2008 4 4 100% resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 4 4 100% Note 1 Melanie Gee retired as a director and Committee member on 20 April 2016.
77 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Main activities during the year During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an annual work plan, which is agreed in November for the following calendar year and reviewed at each meeting.
The main areas of work undertaken by the Committee at each of its meetings during 2016 are set out in the table below.
Meeting February April July November Item under Year-end review of Review of Senior Review of accounting Review of accounting issues review accounting issues and Accounting Officer issues and judgements and judgements affecting judgements 2015 reporting affecting the 2016 interim the 2016 financial Consideration of the 2015 Review of management financial statements statements annual report, financial update on year-end Consideration of the Review of Deloitte planning statements and accounting issues and half-yearly financial report report on the 2016 audit, preliminary results judgements and of the Review of a report from their terms of engagement announcement potential impact of new Deloitte on their interim and proposed audit fees Review of the accounting standards review findings Review of the composition effectiveness of internal Review of the auditor Review of a report and qualifications of the controls and consideration independence policy covering biomass Groups finance teams of fraud Review of the sustainability assurance Received a business update Review of 2016 internal whistleblowing reporting Review of the Audit from Drax Power, covering audit strategy and risk policy Committees terms key financial risks and mapping Review of an activity ofreference controls Review of final report from report from the Ethics and Review of the Groups Review of the internal audit Deloitte on their audit Business Conduct proposed accounting plan for 201718 findings Steering Committee policy for the CfD Review and approval of the Assessment of the Received an update Received a business external auditors terms of effectiveness of the regarding the tender update presentation from engagement external audit process process for the external Haven, covering key risks Review of the effectiveness Review of the Audit audit engagement and controls of the Groups internal Committees effectiveness Approved the Internal Review of audit tender controls and risk Audit Charter conclusions and management systems and recommendation to the effectiveness of its theBoard procedures for detecting fraud and preventing bribery Review of the response to a letter from the Financial Reporting Council FRC regarding the Groups 2015 Annual report In addition, there are a number of routine items which are put to each meeting as follows: a review of the minutes and actions from previous meetings: reports from the internal audit function on its progress with the programme for the year, including fee analysis and new internal audit reports: and the Committees rolling annual plan review.
Between the year-end date and the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts, the Committee met in January 2017 to review the contents of the shareholder circular in relation to the Opus acquisition and recommend the Board approve the circular, and in February 2017 principally to review the draft 2016 Annual report and accounts and the external auditors findings.
The Committee continues to focus on strategic risk areas, such as biomass sustainability reporting, as well as ensuring the provision of a core compliance assurance service.
No significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit reports, although improvements in processes and procedures were made as a result of reviews.
At its meeting in July 2016 the Committee received and reviewed an independent report concerning biomass sustainability controls.
The report raised no material weaknesses in policy or approach but did highlight the key areas of judgement and risk within the process.
Similar to routine internal audit reviews, certain improvements in processes and procedures were implemented as a result of the reports recommendations.
During 2016, the Committee also received updates on financial risks and controls from each of the Groups primary business units.
Drax Power and Haven Power attended Committee meetings and Drax Biomass presented to the Committee as part of a Board visit to the US in October.
78 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE In July 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved managements proposed accounting policy for the CfD contract, which is described on page127.
The Groups principal accounting policies and the judgements and assumptions made in the process of applying them are set out in the notes to the accounts.
In respect of all such matters, including the accounting treatment of the CfD, the external auditor concurred with the judgements made by management and the Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies were applied appropriately, and that the accounting estimates and judgements made were appropriate.
In addition, the Committee satisfied itself as to the independence and objectivity of the external auditor on the basis set out below under Independence of the external audit.
In October 2016, the Group received a letter from the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team, requesting information about certain matters arising from their review of the 2015 Annual report and accounts.
As a result of correspondence and discussions with the Review team some additional information, relating in particular to the effectiveness of power generation using biomass in reducing carbon emissions and to asset impairment testing, has been included in the 2016 Annual report and accounts.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups responses to the FRCs enquiries.
The Committee has a forward programme of specific review areas, with a focus on risk management processes, internal control systems, and financial reporting aspects.
In addition, the Committee monitors the Groups general internal control environment on an annual basis, including risk management structures, policies and processes, the overall financial control framework, key operational controls including production integrity, IT and environmental controls, and procedures in relation to bribery, fraud and any non-compliance.
During 2016, the Committee reviewed the Groups preliminary results announcement, annual report and accounts, and half-year results announcement.
At these meetings, the Committee received reports from management and the external auditor on the application of accounting policies on significant estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements, and on the methods used to account for any significant or unusual transactions.
Reviewing the 2016 annual report and accounts At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee reviewed the content of the 2016 Annual report and accounts, alongside a paper on accounting issues and judgements affecting the accounts and a report from Deloitte LLP setting out their audit findings.
The significant issues and judgements considered were as follows: Matter Issue and nature of judgement Factors considered and conclusions reached Carrying value In 2015 the market capitalisation of the Group fell materially below the Management presented an overview of the methodology and most critical and useful carrying value of the Groups net assets.
Whilst the shortfall has reduced assumptions to the Committee meeting in November 2016. lives of fixed considerably during 2016, this remains the case at the balance sheet date.
assets In addition, commodity markets are weak and the substantial weakening The Committee reviewed an updated report at its meeting in February 2017 that of Sterling against both the Euro and US dollar in the second half of 2016 considered refinements in assumptions and key judgements up to the present indicated a potentially material increase in the long-term costs of fuel for our time, as described in note 2.4. generation business, which are predominantly priced in these currencies.
It was noted that the cash flows that underpin the value in use calculation for As a result, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS, management the Drax Power CGU were derived from the Groups five-year business plan, conducted an impairment review in respect of the Drax Power cash-generating which was subject to review by the Board in January 2017.
This review included unit CGU.
They did so by comparing the present value of future cash flows the challenge of the key assumptions, including commodity and currency forward CGU with the carrying value of its tangible and intangible assets.
curves, the expected useful life of the coal generating units see note 3.1 andpost-2027 revenue sources.
The assumptions that underpin such calculations are, by their nature, dependent upon application of judgement and are thus subject to uncertainty.
After challenging management, regarding these longer-term assumptions, the In particular this is because observable market information is only available for a Committee concluded that a reasonable, supportable and consistent approach limited proportion of the remaining lives of the Groups power generation assets.
had been taken in preparing the review and that there was no current indication of impairment.
Derivative The Group makes extensive use of derivative financial instruments in order The Committee reviewed the Groups derivative position in February, July and financial to manage key risks facing the business and its balance sheet includes November 2016 having regard in particular to the critical judgemental areas instruments significant assets and liabilities arising from derivatives which are stated at described in note 7.2 and considered the position as at 31 December 2016 at their fair value.
In particular, the asset values of forward foreign currency its meeting in February 2017. purchase contracts increased substantially in the period following the weakening of Sterling.
At each meeting, management explained the trends in market prices that underpinned changes in the fair value of the derivative portfolio and highlighted Changes in the fair value of such instruments are recognised in the income any new types of derivative instrument for the Committees consideration.
statement or when the specific criteria for hedge accounting are met, in the hedge reserve.
The Committee concluded that the fair value calculations had been performed in a reasonable and consistent manner based on quoted market prices as The fair values for derivative financial instruments are determined using explained in note 7.2 and that the system of controls in place was fit for purpose.
forward price curves and, where an instrument incorporates an element Accordingly, it was concluded that the amounts included in the financial ofoptionality, an option pricing model.
The inputs to these calculations include assumptions regarding futuretransactions and market movements, as well as credit risk, andaretherefore subjective.
79 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Matter Issue and nature of judgement Factors considered and conclusions reached Valuation of The Group receives ROCs for generating electricity from sustainable biomass.
The Committee reviewed papers presented by management at its meetings in ROC assets The Groups balance sheet contains a material amount of such assets at the February, July and November, which set out the current balance sheet valuation end of December 2016. and the key underlying assumptions that drive the carrying value, including the assessment of likely future sales prices of ROCs.
ROC assets are initially valued at fair value and subsequently written down to net realisable value where appropriate.
At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee reviewed the specific assumptions that directly impact the amounts recognised in the 2016 financial statements, These calculations require an element of judgement in considering probable as explained in note 3.2. future sales prices in the market.
The Committee concluded that the judgements made in valuing ROC assets were reasonable, supportable and consistent and that, accordingly, the values included in the financial statements were appropriate.
Existence and The Group carries a material amount of fuel inventories predominantly coal The Committee reviewed the processes, including judgements, estimates valuation of and biomass in the form of compressed wood pellets which are measured and assumptions made, in respect of fuel inventory valuation at its meetings fuel at the lower of their weighted average cost and net realisable value.
in February, July and November in 2016. inventories Whilst value is largely based on observable costs, the nature and At its meeting in February 2017, the Committee reviewed the position and specific characteristics of the inventories mean that determining the volume of judgements made in respect of the 2016 financial statements.
inventory at any given time is subject to a degree of estimation.
Accordingly, while both coal and biomass stocks are measured using equipment regularly Having challenged management on the appropriateness of the measurements calibrated to industry standard levels of tolerance, as explained in note 3.3 used in determining inventory volumes, the Committee concluded that the the potential for actual results to vary from initial calculations remains.
process and approach followed by management had been performed in a reasonable and prudent manner.
Stocks are surveyed at the balance sheet date by either an independent third party or electronic scanning equipment and provisions made where appropriate.
However, both methods rely on assumptions regarding density of the fuel surveyed.
Explanations of the critical accounting judgements, estimates Review of Audit Committee effectiveness by members and assumptions are set out in detail throughout the notes to the In line with the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee consolidated financial statements, with a summary on pages 117 reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that the composition of and118.
its membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews that it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the continued The Committee also reviewed the underlying process, internal controls, effective functioning of the Committee.
forecasts and relevant assumptions made in preparing the Viability Statement, disclosed on page 54 of this Annual report.
Having Fair, balanced and understandable view challenged the assumptions made in this process and considered The Committee reviewed the content of this annual report and the appropriateness of the three-year period of assessment, the accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, Committee concluded that the process supporting the Viability it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Statement was robust.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In addition, other matters relating to the application of accounting policies or accounting treatment were considered during the year External auditor effectiveness atthe February, July and November 2016 meetings, and again The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor, attheFebruary 2017 meeting in relation to our financial Deloitte LLP, who have performed the role continuously since the statements.
These included: Companys listing in 2005.
This process incorporated feedback from management and key individuals across the Group, as well as the the accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in relation Committees own experience.
The assessment considered the to revenue recognition, retirement benefit obligations and taxation.
independence and objectivity of Deloitte, the robustness of the Further information on these areas can be found in the audit process, the quality of delivery of the audit plan, the quality of consolidated financial statements: and reporting on findings and recommendations to the Committee and other accounting issues, relating to application of accounting management, and the experience and expertise of the audit team policies or accounting treatment.
Where applicable, our accounting and the quality of service provided.
policies are set out in the relevant note to the consolidated financialstatements.
Independence of the external audit The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy the Policy, in The Committee met twice in the absence of management with accordance with which the Committee annually reviews the quality each of the external auditor February and July and Head of and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence Group Risk and Internal Audit April and November.
No matters of and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Policy can be found on the concern were drawn to the Committees attention at any of these Companys website at www.
The Committees understanding with both the external and internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become aware of any matters giving them material concern, they will immediately draw it to the Committees attention via the Chairman of the Committee.
Nothing was reported in this way during the year.
80 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The provisions of the Policy include: Under the new model, the internal team conducts core financial control reviews.
Reviews of specialist technical areas are outsourced seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional to firms with appropriate experience and qualifications.
judgement, independent of the Group, and obtaining from it an account of all relationships which may affect the firms The Committee receive reports at each meeting regarding the internal independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and staff: audit programme and reviews undertaken.
Recommendations are a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct made to management for control improvements as appropriate.
non-audit work, under which: Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain categories of during 2016 included: work, including those where they may be required to audit their own work or make management decisions, or where the auditor retail pricing model and advanced metering roll-out: would act in an advocacy role for the Group: ROC process controls self-assessment: there is a clear approval process for engaging the auditor physical fuel trade settlement: toconduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to key financial controls over expenditure and payroll in the Retail financial limits: business: and all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work are generation stores and non-spares stock.
reported to the next meeting of the Committee: and the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor for In addition, at the April and November meetings the Committee audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee.
received reports detailing progress with implementing recommendations previously raised by internal audit.
Following the The Committee receives reports from the external auditor on its own most recent of these updates, in November 2016, the Committee was processes and procedures, to ensure its independence and objectivity satisfied that management is taking appropriate steps to deal with the and to ensure compliance with the relevant standards.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, audit and other services are set out in note 2.2 to the consolidated maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and financial statements on page 127. external auditor.
No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Groups choice of This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee on external auditor.
Audit tendering and rotation The Group has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
David Lindsell In accordance with the requirements of Regulation 537 2014 of the Chairman of the Audit Committee European Parliament and Council, we conducted a tender process for the external audit of the 2017 financial statements during the year.
This process was led by the Chair of the Audit Committee and involved a tender committee comprised of management from across the Groups finance and risk functions.
At its meeting in July 2016 the Committee reviewed an update on the tender process.
In November 2016 the Chair presented a report outlining the tender committees findings and recommendations.
The Audit Committee debated these findings, before agreeing to recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP should be reappointed as external auditor for the 2017 financial statements.
The recommendation will be put to shareholders at the AGM in April2017.
Internal audit From 2016, the Groups internal audit function moved to a co-sourced model led by the Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit, having previously been undertaken by Grant Thornton UK LLP.
As part of the transition, the Committee reviewed and approved the Groups Internal Audit Charter strategy and initial plan for areas of review in 2016 and 2017.
81 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
