70 Governance Audit Committee report Overseeing effective controls.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS SIGNIFICANT MATTERS CONSIDERED IN 2015 16 The Audit Committees work in the current year reflects both In 2015 16, the Audit Committees work on other significant developments within the Group, including the continued accounting and financial reporting issues included a focus on acquisition and divestment activities, and the increased the key areas outlined as follows: corporate reporting requirements.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee has continued to conduct its usual oversight of A number of key activities had been undertaken to take account financial results, internal audit reviews and the management of of the updated FRC guidance on risk management, internal control risk across the Group, taking into account the enlarging footprint and related financial and business reporting including a refresh of the Group and the new requirements.
Meetings are scheduled of the process of managing risk across the Group.
around the end of the half and full year, as well as before the publication of the associated half and full-year financial reports, The Audit Committee reviewed the process updates, Risk Review so as to ensure the Committee is able to review and debate, on update and Group-level Risk Assurance Map.
a timely basis, areas of significant risk and judgement.
The Audit Committee has supported the Board in responding The Committee has continued to monitor the evolution of the to the amendments to the Code published in September 2014.
Groups financial reporting and control framework as well as The Audit Committee considered the requirements for, and overseeing the risk management programme, with particular the processes and assumptions underlying, the new viability regard for how the two interact to underpin the Groups longerstatement set out on page 41, as provided for by the Code, term viability assessment.
ensuring that the model used for scenario and sensitivity testing aligned clearly with the principal risks of the Group, and reviewing The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code requires the the proposed wording for the statement.
The Audit Committee Board to confirm that the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced was satisfied that the viability statement had been prepared and understandable assessment of the Groups position and on an appropriate basis and that the statement is justified.
performance, business model and strategy.
Under its terms of reference, following a request from the Board, the Committee CLASSIFICATION AND PRESENTATION OF undertook procedures to advise on this matter.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The Group has continued to deliver programmes to restructure the business to evolve and optimise the operational footprint and the support infrastructure.
The costs of these programmes, together with other elements of income and cost including acquisition costs, impairments and gains or losses on business disposals, are classified as exceptional because of their nature, incidence or size.
The Directors believe that such a classification assists in the understanding of the underlying trading and financial results of Jonathan Nicholls the Group.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the appropriateness Chairman of the Audit Committee of the income and costs included in, and excluded from, Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 71 2015 16 OVERVIEW KEY RESPONSIBILITIES CALENDAR OF EVENTS FINANCIAL YEAR The accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the Groups accounts.
Q1 Q2 External financial reporting and associated announcements.
Reviewed Annual Report and Internal audit findings and Managing the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration of the Groups external Auditor, including the Accounts and advised the Board on management responses reported whether they were fair, balanced and debated, and management policy on the award of non-audit services.
actions monitored for timely Initiating and supervising a competitive tender process for the completion.
Reviewed external and internal audit external audit when next required.
reports as part of the year end cycle Reviewed and approved the Deloitte The resourcing, plans and effectiveness of Internal Audit and considered the effectiveness of external audit plan.
performed on behalf of the Group by an accountancy firm the external Audit.
currently KPMG, which is independent from the Groups external Auditor.
The adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control Q3 Q4 environment.
The Groups risk management processes and performance.
Internal Audit Operational Review, Reviewed Groups response to new including the Audit plan for 2016 17.
To establish and oversee fraud prevention arrangements and reports under the Speak Up!
Reviewed internal controls Reviewed the Groups response to action plan.
The Groups compliance with the Code.
Discussed the requirement under Confirmed external audit and the 2014 UK Corporate Governance internal audit plan.
The Audit Committees terms of reference, which have been Code to report on viability, and reviewed by the Committee in 2016, can be found at www.
Received update of Groups key risks agreed appropriate outlook period.
com investors corporate-governance committees and mitigation process including Speak Up!
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE In addition to the Audit Committee members, the Chairman, Allocation of time the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, 10% 10% representatives from Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller attend parts of these meetings by invitation.
The 10% Board is satisfied that Jonathan Nicholls and the members of Governance the Audit Committee have both current and relevant financial Financial Reporting 20% Risk Management experience as set out on pages 52 to 54.
50% External audit Meeting Internal audit Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Jonathan Nicholls Dec 2009 4 4 100% Chris Britton Mar 2013 4 4 100% ADVISERS Ian Griffiths Jun 2014 4 4 100% Dec 2012 Kathleen 4 4 100% Internal External ODonovan Louise Smalley Jun 2014 3 4 75% Group Financial Controller Deloitte LLP Total meetings 4 KPMG internal audit dssmith.
com 72 Governance Audit Committee report continued exceptional items by challenging and seeking explanations from The Audit Committee meets with the external Auditor to management.
The Audit Committee review and challenge of determine annually their qualifications, expertise, resources, reports prepared by management and the external Auditor is independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
In addition, the a recurring agenda item in all Audit Committee meetings.
The performance of the external and internal audit functions is external Auditor reports on these matters at the half and full year.
The Audit Committee receives written confirmation The Audit Committee is satisfied with the resulting presentation.
from the external Auditor as to any relationships that might have a bearing on their independence, whether they consider themselves independent within the meaning of the UK regulatory ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING and professional requirements, and on their quality control The Group has made significant investments in new acquisitions processes and ethical standards.
The independence of the during the year with consequential accounting considerations external Auditor was also confirmed as part of the 2013 14 including, inter alia, identification and fair values of intangible tender process.
In addition, in order to ensure the independence assets, fair values of other assets, goodwill arising and step-up and objectivity of the Auditor, the Audit Committee maintains gains of prior interests held.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and regularly reviews the Auditor Independence Policy which the results of the work undertaken in these areas which has covers services which may be provided by, and fees paid to, included, for the major acquisitions, engagement of external auditors.
Under professional standards, the partner responsible professional advisers on the fair values of tangible assets, for the audit is generally changed every five years: the most and the identification and fair values of intangible assets.
recent rotation took place in 2013 14.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with Deloittes independence and effectiveness.
TAXATION The focus by the Audit Committee on taxation during the year There are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard considered the high current level of fiscal authority activity, the to Deloittes appointment.
upcoming country-by-country reporting requirements and the The Audit Committee is able to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups expansion into new markets.
Taxation represents a external Auditor both through direct assessment and through significant cost to the business in both cash and accounting terms, recurring activities.
The Audit Committee Chairman meets with and the Group is exposed to differing tax regimes and risks which the lead engagement partner regularly and individual committee affect both the carrying values of tax balances including deferred members are encouraged to, and do, meet privately with Deloitte.
tax and the resultant income statement charges.
The Audit Committee reviewed the tax charge for the half year and the Deloitte LLP were first appointed as external Auditor to the full year, including the underlying tax effect, the appropriateness Group companies in 2006.
In 2013 14, the Company carried out of and movement in tax provisions recognised, and the risks a competitive tender for the role of Statutory Auditor, following associated with them.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years and Ian Waller, the current lead audit partner, has been in post since 2013 14 and is due to rotate after the 2017 18 OPERATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and year end.
met privately with the external Auditor after each meeting.
The Committees policy is that the role of external Auditor The Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate will be put out to tender at least every 10 years in line with the private meetings during the year with the external Auditor, Competition and Markets Authority and EU rules or at other times representatives from Internal Audit and the Group Finance should specific circumstances require this.
Our current intention Director and his team.
The Audit Committee received sufficient, is to put the audit out to tender for the 2023 24 year end.
The reliable and timely information from management to enable it Committee has the discretion to put the audit out to tender at any to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee is satisfied time and will continue to keep this under review on an annual basis that the Groups executive compensation arrangements do in conjunction with the assessment of the effectiveness of the not prejudice robust controls and good stewardship.
The audit fee negotiations are approved by the Audit Committee.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS The Audit Committee confirms that the Company has complied Pursuant to the terms of the Auditor Effectiveness and with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authority Order Independence Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies throughout its financial year ended 30 April 2016 and up to the Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender date of this report.
Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Competition & Markets Authority Order, the Audit Committee is now solely responsible for negotiating and agreeing the external Auditors fee, the scope of the statutory audit and initiating and supervising a competitive tender process for the external audit where it is appropriate to do so, and to make recommendations to the Board as to the external Auditors appointment pursuant to any such process.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 73 INTEGRATION CASE STUDY Oversight of the integration of the acquisitions made during the year has been a key priority for the Audit Committee.
Ensuring that good financial controls are in place from day one is an essential component of a successful acquisition, beginning with putting in place appropriate delegated authorities, then ensuring the acquired businesses put in place DSSmith policies and guidance.
The dedicated integration team manages the transition in partnership with colleagues in the new businesses, covering not only the financial control and reporting environment, but also treasury procedures, value capture, synergy tracking and integration cost control.
Management receives regular updates on the integration and management of the acquired businesses from risk management, integration and financial reporting teams throughout the year as the integration and associated restructuring programmes progress.
The Audit Committee takes a close interest in the internal audit, external audit and risk management activities in relation to the new acquisitions and, mindful of the Groups acquisition programme, reviews and approves specific integration guidance embedded in the financial control procedures.
Integration of good financial controls is essential to a successful acquisition.
During 2015 16, total non-audit fees were 25% of the annual NON-AUDIT FEES Group audit fee 2014 15: 25%.
In addition, 5.4 million was The policy on the supply of non-audit services by external auditors paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work, including is as follows: The Group should not employ the Auditor to provide 0.6 million for work relating to Internal Audit.
non-audit services where either the nature of the work or the extent of such services might impair the Auditors independence The revisions to the Code and other guidance mean that, with or objectivity.
The external Auditor is permitted to undertake effect from the Groups 2017 18 year, the non-audit services some non-audit services, provided it has the skill, competence permitted to be provided by the Auditor will be limited further and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the and the ability for pre-approval of non-audit services substantially Group, for example, advisory services and due diligence activities removed.
In addition, a cap on the ratio of non-audit fees to audit associated with potential acquisitions and disposals and major fees paid to the Auditor of 70% has been introduced this is changes in accounting regulations.
expected to be effective from the Groups 2020 21 year.
In response to these changes, the Audit Committee has updated Non-audit services and fees are reported to the Audit Committee its internal guidance to reflect the new requirements as they twice a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to the become effective.
external Auditor should not exceed 75% of the annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the Audit Committee.
KEY PRIORITIES IN 2016 17 Review of the viability statement.
Review and, if appropriate, approve the half-year and full-year results.
Review of provision of non-audit services.
Review the Internal Audit report on internal control Carry out an assessment of the external Auditors matters and review management response.
Evaluate systems of internal control across the Group, Test whether there has been any impairment to the including IT controls.
balance sheet and review going concern.
Review the Groups Key Risks and the reporting thereon.
