52 Governance Leadership OUR BOARD The role of the Board is to review rigorously strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability to ensure that every decision we make is of the highest quality.
1 GARETH DAVIS CHAIRMAN 9 1 Governance and leadership.
Gareth leads the Board and brings a wealth of international experience, helping to drive strategy, in particular DSSmiths ongoing expansion plans.
8 2 EXECUTIVES 2 MILES ROBERTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Strategy and vision.
3 7 Who sits around our Miles leads the development of DSSmith Board table strategy and along with the rest of the Board helps drive the Groups direction with strategic acquisitions and a sustainable business model.
6 4 3 ADRIAN MARSH 5 GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Financial and risk management.
Coming from a large listed company background, Adrian brings strong financial expertise within an international context.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DIRECTOR 4 CHRIS BRITTON 6 KATHLEEN ODONOVAN 8 JONATHAN NICHOLLS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Commercial and general management.
Financial strategy, M&A and restructuring Jonathan is a qualified accountant experience.
Chris has a strong background in general management and marketing, and has Kathleen is a qualified accountant and Working closely with the other extensive experience of sitting on has extensive experience of executive non-Executive Directors at DS Smith, boards of large companies, including and non-executive responsibility on a assists the Chairman in providing listed companies.
independent judgement and advice to the Board.
5 IAN GRIFFITHS 7 LOUISE SMALLEY COMPANY SECRETARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Strong corporate finance and Knowledge of people management, 9 IAIN SIMM audit experience.
GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND With over 25 years experience as a Louise has large listed company experience COMPANY SECRETARY qualified accountant and holding a M. A. as an Executive Director of Whitbread PLC.
Supports the Chairman in ensuring the in Economics from Cambridge University, Board functions efficiently and effectively.
he was awarded FTSE 100 FD of the Guides the Chairman and Board on Year in 2013. their responsibilities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 53 Appointment: Gareth was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 as a non-Executive N R Director.
He became Chairman of the Board on 4 January 2012 and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Skills and Experience: Gareth is an experienced Chairman with over 20 years experience of sitting on boards.
Previously he was Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC following its demerger from Hanson in 1996 until May 2010.
External Appointments: Gareth is Chairman of both Wolseley plc and William Hill PLC.
Gareth Davis, Chairman Appointment: Miles was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2010 as Group Chief Executive.
N G Skills and Experience: In his earlier years he gained an engineering degree at Bristol University, before training as an accountant.
He brings to the Board extensive financial and strategic development experience.
He was previously Chief Executive of McBride plc, having originally joined as its Group Finance Director.
External Appointments: He is a non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Poundland Group plc.
Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive Appointment: Adrian was appointed to the Board on 24 September 2013 as Group G Finance Director.
Skills and Experience: As the former head of Tax, Treasury and Corporate Finance at Tesco PLC, Adrian has helped DS Smith to significantly build the finance function and deliver strong financial results.
He is a qualified accountant, and comes from a FTSE background.
He was European CFO at AstraZeneca plc and CFO Global Building Products at Pilkington plc.
Adrian Marsh, Group Finance Director Appointment: Chris was appointed to the Board on 6 March 2013 as a non-Executive N R A Director and is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Skills and Experience: He co-founded B&B Investment Partners, a specialist investment fund, in 2013.
He was previously a non-Executive Director for Alliance Boots GmbH.
He has additionally held executive board positions, including as Chief Executive Officer of the Findus Group, and was President of the Baby Division of Royal Numico until its acquisition by Danone in November 2007.
Before that he worked for Diageo for 20 years in various marketing and general management positions, latterly as Global Marketing Director.
External Appointments: Chris is Chairman of Graze and currently serves on the Board Chris Britton, Non-Executive Director of Aromatherapy Associates and PhD Nutrition.
Appointment: Appointed to the Board on 23 June 2014 as non-Executive Director, Ian is N R A a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Skills and Experience: Prior to his current role with ITV, Ian was at Emap plc from 1994 to 2008 where he held a number of senior finance roles, including the position of Group Finance Director from 2005 to 2008.
Prior to that he was at EY, where he worked in the corporate finance team.
External Appointments: He is Group Finance Director of ITV plc.
Ian Griffiths, Non-Executive Director dssmith.
com 54 Governance Leadership continued Appointment: Jonathan was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2009 as a N R A non-Executive Director.
In July 2012 he was appointed as the Senior Independent Director and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Skills and Experience: He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a Fellowship member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Hanson Plc, and, most recently Group Finance Director of Old Mutual Plc.
External Appointments: He is a non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees at Great Portland Estates plc and Ibstock plc.
Jonathan Nicholls, He is a non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at SIG plc.
Senior Independent Director Appointment: Kathleen was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director on N R A 5 December 2012.
She was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in September 2013.
Skills and Experience: She was previously a non-Executive Director of Prudential plc, EMI Group plc, O2 plc and Senior Independent Director of Great Portland Estates plc.
She served as a Director on the Court of the Bank of England from 1998 to 2004 and was Chief Financial Officer of BTR plc and Invensys plc from 1991 to 2002.
External Appointments: She was Senior Independent Director for ARM Holdings plc until December 2015 and chaired their Audit Committee.
Kathleen ODonovan, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Louise was appointed to the Board on 23 June 2014 as a non-Executive N R A Director and is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Skills and Experience: Louise brings strong HR experience to the Board having held a number of key HR roles across Whitbread including HR Director of David Lloyd Leisure and Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants.
She previously worked as an HR professional in the oil industry, with BP and Esso Petroleum.
External Appointments: She is Group Human Resources Director and an Executive Director of Whitbread PLC.
Louise Smalley, Non-Executive Director Iain Simm, Group General Counsel Appointment: Iain was appointed as Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and Company Secretary on 6June 2016.
Skills and Experience: He was previously General Counsel and Company Secretary with BBA Aviation plc and prior to that General Counsel at P&O Ports Ltd.
He undertook his legal training with Slaughter and May and worked for a number of years in their corporate and commercial group.
KEY G General Purposes Committee N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 55 complied throughout the financial year, and up to the date of this GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND COMPLIANCE report, with all the provisions of the 2014 version of the Code.
Our governance framework, which is shaped by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 Each Director has access to all information relating to the Group and secondary legislation, sets out standards of good practice in and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, accountability, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The Company has and, as required, external advice at the expense of the Group.
OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE BOARD CHAIRED BY GARETH DAVIS MEETS SEVEN TIMES A YEAR Accountable to shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
This is achieved through setting out the strategy, monitoring the strategic objectives and providing oversight of the implementation by the management team.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRED BY CHAIRED BY CHAIRED BY JONATHAN NICHOLLS KATHLEEN ODONOVAN GARETH DAVIS MEETS FOUR TIMES A YEAR MEETS FIVE TIMES A YEAR MEETS FIVE TIMES A YEAR The Audit Committee has responsibility The Remuneration Committee reviews The Nomination Committee regularly for overseeing and monitoring the and recommends to the Board the reviews the structure, size and Groups financial statements, accounting framework and policy for the composition of the Board and processes, audit internal and external remuneration of the Chairman, the its Committees.
It identifies and controls and matters relating to fraud Executive Directors and the Group nominates suitable candidates to and other reports received under Operating Committee.
The remuneration be appointed to the Board subject the Speak Up!
of the non-Executive Directors is to Board approval and considers determined by the Chairman and the talent and succession generally.
The Committee takes into account the business strategy of the Group and how the remuneration policy reflects and supports that strategy.
See p 70 for more information See p 77 for more information See p 74 for more information GROUP OPERATING COMMITTEE STRATEGY COMMITTEE CHAIRED BY MILES ROBERTS CHAIRED BY MILES ROBERTS MEETS MONTHLY MEETS MONTHLY Considers Group-wide initiatives and priorities.
Reviews the Plans the business strategy implementation through the implementation of strategy and operational plans: reviews annual Corporate Plan process.
It is used to develop the Groups changes to policies and procedures and discusses the strategy, based on the set strategic direction.
The Corporate development of new projects.
Plans focus is primarily on strategic actions, supported by high level financials.
Our Corporate Plan covers a three year horizon and is reviewed annually with the Board.
OPERATING DIVISIONS CORPORATE FUNCTIONS DAY-TO-DAY BUSINESS DELIVERY DAY-TO-DAY BUSINESS DELIVERY dssmith.
S s R Y p u T g. n r r n g a m i o t o d d t i a m B g n r. C g T 56 Governance Leadership continued GROUP ANNUAL REPORTING FRAMEWORK FINANCIAL RESULTS AND BOARD MEETINGS SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE Seven scheduled REPORTS TO INVESTORS GOVERNANCE PLANNING CYCLE Board meetings a year Fullyear results Four Sustainability Divisional strategy Committee meetings development Halfyear results GROUP OPERATIONS Board approval Trading updates in March COMMITTEE GOC TALENT AND and September Eleven GOC meetings a year PERFORMANCE BUDGETARY PROCESS REVIEW PROCESS Divisional budget Talent and development TRADING MEETINGS performance reviews Each division provides Board approval monthly updates Bonus targets and payments Salary reviews Annual Report & Accounts 2016 r s a t e d B l. y u r g m o l s a t l t a e u r o m g r B d. w F D e E i C E v. G m E C g N O t e t O M U g C r m J B. G I E R T T g. r L n H g a r m i a e t d l d t s f i u a m g y n l r. e t a s g T r t e g N r O a V G. Y m t C g E A O t t O M s g C M m. B G u E n R g T. o r n g a i m t B d d t i a m g r n. T g B d. m r g o a t t a o r g m d. B p e O M r C L i I f T G. m. R C d g O O t t O P r - g B C A m. G e y E R e v g i. T a n g e r i a t m r d d w t a m i r g n. T g Governance Governance 57 ROLE OF THE BOARD ROUTINE PROCESSES The Group reporting framework is designed Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman BOARD AND to ensure that the Group and the individual and the Group Chief Executive and the terms of reference of all EXECUTIVE businesses have a clear annual plan aligned Committees of the Board.
Results are Agree the remuneration policy subject to shareholder approval for the Directors, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary closely monitored monthly and compared and other senior executives.
with the agreed budget and the prior year.
Reviewing the performance of the Board, its Committees and This ensures that management is quickly individual Directors annually.
aware of issues as they emerge and Succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior corrective actions can be implemented management as recommended by the Nomination Committee.
As part of the monthly reporting process, businesses are Setting the longterm objectives and commercial strategy.
STRATEGY required to update their fullyear forecast, Oversight of the management of the DS Smith Group.
which should be a balanced view in terms Setting financial KPIs.
of both risks and opportunities.
The policies relating to financial reporting are contained within the Group Accounting Manual Approval of the Group and Company financial statements and FINANCE ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
and the Groups Accounting and Finance Recommending or declaring dividends.
These are available on the Groups Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices.
This process is owned by the Group Financial Controller.
Approval of all key policies and material amendments to those RISK & policies, including the Code of Conduct, Health and Safety and INTEGRATION GOVERNANCE Environmental policies.
Policies and Maintaining a sound system of internal controls and risk management.
procedures are Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
embedded into new businesses from Day 1 Approval of major changes to the DS Smith Groups corporate MAJOR structure.
100% APPROVALS Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments.
BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES Nomination Audit Remuneration Annual General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting % Attendance Total number of meetings in 2015 16 7 5 4 5 1 Total number of meetings attended in 2015 16 Executive Directors Miles Roberts 7 7 5 5 1 1 100% Adrian Marsh 7 7 1 1 100% Non-Executive Directors Gareth Davis 7 7 5 5 5 5 1 1 100% Chris Britton 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 1 1 100% Ian Griffiths 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 1 1 100% Jonathan Nicholls 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 1 1 100% Kathleen ODonovan 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 1 1 100% Louise Smalley 6 7 5 5 3 4 4 5 1 1 86% All Directors received papers for all meetings, and had the opportunity to comment in advance of meetings they were unable to attend.
Louise Smalley was unable to attend the Audit Committee meeting in October due to flight delays and the Board and Remuneration Committee meetings in January due to prior Whitbread board commitments.
com 58 Governance Leadership continued KEY RESPONSIBILITIES leading the operation and governance of the Board as well as CHAIRMAN Our values building and maintaining an effective Board: We are committed to the highest overseeing corporate governance matters and ensuring they ethical standards in the way in which are addressed: we engage with each other and our leading the performance evaluations of the Group Chief Executive, customers, employees, shareholders, non-Executive Directors and the Board: suppliers and other stakeholders.
ensuring Directors receive timely, accurate and clear information on Group business and that all Directors are fully informed of Our reputation as a Group is founded relevant matters: and on our achievement of these high communicating effectively with shareholders and stakeholders.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the Group and ongoing training as relevant.
leading the development of the Groups strategic direction and GROUP CHIEF Be caring we take pride in what implementing the agreed strategy: EXECUTIVE we do and care about our customers, communicating effectively with shareholders and stakeholders: our people and the world around us.
overseeing business operations and managing risks: prime responsibility for health and safety within the Group and its subsidiary operations: building and leading an effective Group Operations Committee GOC which comprises the heads of the Groups principal operations and Be challenging we are not afraid functions and management of the Groups business: and to constructively challenge each communicating matters raised by the GOC to the Board.
other and ourselves to find a better The Group Chief Executive is assisted in meeting his responsibilities way forward.
by the Group Finance Director, the GOC and the Strategy Committee.
being available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns that SENIOR they feel have not been addressed through the normal channels: INDEPENDENT conducting the annual performance review of the Chairman: and Be trusted we can always be DIRECTOR providing advice and judgement to the Chairman as necessary.
trusted to deliver on our promises.
providing a strong source of advice and judgement: INDEPENDENT constructively challenging and helping develop proposals on NON-EXECUTIVE strategy: and DIRECTORS providing significant external commercial experience and a broad Be responsive we seek new ideas range of skills for the Board to draw on.
and understanding and are quick to react to opportunities.
ensuring a good flow of information to the Board and its GROUP GENERAL Committees: COUNSEL AND facilitating all Director inductions: and COMPANY advising the Board on corporate governance and keeping the SECRETARY Board up to date on all legal, regulatory and other developments.
Be tenacious we get things done.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 59 BOARD ACTIVITIES KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2015 16 KEY PRIORITIES IN 2016 17 Reviewed and approved the Corporate Plan.
Approve and keep under review the STRATEGY Corporate Plan.
Reviewed and approved a number of acquisitions and divestments.
Consider acquisitions and divestments as Reviewed financial KPIs.
identified and determine appropriate Debated and approved the Groups dividend policy.
Keep the financial KPIs under review.
Keep the Groups dividend policy under review.
Carried out a robust assessment of principal key risks see pages Review key risks and ensure that the RISK AND RISK 40 to 47 and monitored and reviewed the internal controls process, Company remains at the forefront of MANAGEMENT and assessed the Group risk profile by identifying where the businesss developing and embedding best practice key risks lay, aligning them with the risk appetite of the business for risk management.
and highlighting how to target and mitigate those risks effectively.
Continue to monitor compliance with the Monitored compliance with the anti-bribery and anti-corruption key policies, including anti-bribery and policy and the competition law policy.
anti-corruption policy, competition law policy, social media policy and data protection policy.
Leadership and employees: Ensure that the Company remains at the GOVERNANCE forefront of developing and embedding best AND VALUES Considered the changes to the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code practice in responsible business behaviour.
in the context of DS Smiths governance practices.
Maintain and enhance DS Smiths culture and Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness values and key policies and procedures and of the Board.
ensure these are rolled out to acquired Reviewed the key operational roles and identified gaps in experience businesses, including our Anti-Slavery needed to deliver the strategy.
Reinforced compliance with DS Smiths Code of Conduct and the Continue to strengthen internal controls Operating Framework, a document which sets out the Groups culture and reporting.
and values, as well as its key policies and procedures, all in accordance Review level of institutional holdings and with the principles of good corporate governance.
consider actions to broaden the Groups Considered the new regulations affecting the Board and the Company shareholder base further.
including the Modern Slavery Act and Gender Pay Gap reporting.
Designing the remuneration policy, in consultation with shareholders and Relations with shareholders: other key stakeholders, for approval Engaged with our retail shareholders at the AGM.
by shareholders at the AGM in 2017.
Actively engaged with institutional shareholders, investors and other Further understanding and plan actions in stakeholders throughout the year.
relation to new regulations over the period.
Monitored health and safety performance across the Group and Continue to monitor senior executive talent ORGANISATIONAL reviewed the lessons learned, to keep our employees and others management and development plans to CAPACITY affected by our operations safe.
provide succession for all key positions.
Held meetings between the Board and senior talent pipeline to Continue to increase the diversity of the further improve information flow.
Reviewed the governance framework and continued training and awareness drives for key policies.
Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness Enhance the Boards strategic BOARD of the Board.
Reviewed Board composition and discussed and understanding of geopolitical and DEVELOPMENT acted on the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
economic risks in international markets.
Undertook an internal evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Use Board visits to promote understanding individual Directors, with the aim of becoming the best Board we of markets and the business development can be.
Following the evaluation an action plan was developed.
Annual evaluation of Board performance to be led internally.
