74 Governance Nomination Committee report The Board and the Committee pay full regard to the benefits of diversity.
Gareth Davis Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDERS BOARD DIVERSITY The Nomination Committee has an important role in leading the The Board uses the Nomination Committee to ensure that its process for Board appointments and for evaluating the balance of composition is diverse, particularly in terms of different backgrounds skills and experience across the Board to help support our strategy.
and experience, as this brings a variety of perspectives, skills and knowledge to the Board and the Group as a whole.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its committees to maintain the appropriate Diversity management is a longterm commitment and the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to Nomination Committee continues to support the development ensure their continued effectiveness.
Appropriate succession of diversity, both at Board level and within the Group as a whole, plans for the non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and to create a more gender-balanced Group.
the Groups senior management are also kept under review.
It is evident from the research gathered so far that there are many ways in which DS Smith could address gender diversity and that SUCCESSION PLANNING there is a clear business case for doing so.
The Board remains The Nomination Committee has continued to scrutinise the committed to strengthening the pipeline of senior female robustness of succession planning arrangements for the Executive executives within the business and is taking steps to ensure Directors and each executive management role, together with that there are no barriers to women succeeding at any level the adequacy of the pipeline of leadership talent below the GOC.
Strengthening the pipeline of executive talent in the Group has In preparation for the Gender Pay Gap regulations coming into remained a key focus during the year.
We continue to develop force we have begun our planning to understand the level of any our talent pipeline in order to support the growth targets in the difference between male and female pay throughout the Group.
Corporate Plan: activities over the year included a discussion of the senior level roles that would need to be filled in the coming months The Board and the Group as a whole consider diversity as an and the available internal candidates to take on these roles.
important factor when looking to strengthen the talent pipeline.
Our approach to diversity and inclusion is about recognising The Committee is aware of the need to ensure that the that the ideal working environment is one which allows all our organisation is not overly dependent on one individual and has employees to perform at their best and develop to their full been taking steps over the last few years to address this by potential.
We do not tolerate any discrimination based on culture, strengthening the executive team below the Group Chief nationality, race, religion, gender, gender identity, disability, sexual Executive.
We have promoted high performing managers to orientation or age.
the GOC, which is our equivalent of the Executive Committee, and we have also recruited senior executives from outside the We value diversity of gender, age and nationality as well as Group to join our team.
individual characteristics such as a broad life experience when evaluating diversity within DS Smith.
This is important for us since we believe it to be a key factor behind high performing and innovative teams.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 75 2015 16 OVERVIEW 2015 16 HIGHLIGHTS CALENDAR OF EVENTS FINANCIAL YEAR Review of Board composition.
Evaluation of talent pipeline and considered plans Q1 Q2 for developing key individuals.
Approved the revised Reviewed the role terms of reference specification and process Review of Group General Counsel and Company for the appointment of Secretary role prior to appointment of Iain Simm.
the General Counsel and Company Secretary 2016 17 KEY PRIORITIES Maintain ongoing succession plans.
Further reinforce the diversity and cultural expertise in the Boards composition.
Further strengthen the senior management team.
Q3 Q4 Annual evaluation of the Committee in the first quarter of 2017.
Evaluated the Evaluated the performance of performance of Jonathan Nicholls and Chris Britton Kathleen ODonovan Evaluated the Chairmans Recommended the performance appointment of Iain Simm Reviewed the terms as Group General Counsel of reference and Company Secretary MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Nomination Committee is formed of the Chairman, the Allocation of time Group Chief Executive and all the non-Executive Directors.
10% The Committee meets at least four times a year.
15% Performance evaluation 25% Succession planning 25% Talent pipeline Meeting Diversity Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Governance 25% Gareth Davis 1 Jun 2010 5 5 100% Chris Britton 6 Mar 2013 5 5 100% Ian Griffiths 23 Jun 2014 5 5 100% ADVISERS Jonathan Nicholls 1 Dec 2009 5 5 100% Kathleen 4 Dec 2012 5 5 100% Internal External ODonovan Miles Roberts 4 May 2010 5 5 100% Group General Counsel and Executive search firm agencies Company Secretary who are signatories to the Louise Smalley 23 Jun 2014 5 5 100% Executive Search Firms voluntary Group Human Resources Director Total meetings 5 Code of Conduct on gender diversity none retained this year dssmith.
com 76 Governance Nomination Committee report continued Committee carefully considered the performance of and COMPANY SECRETARY contribution made by Chris Britton, Kathleen ODonovan and Iain Simm was appointed as Group Company Secretary and Jonathan Nicholls and remains satisfied that the performance General Counsel on 6 June 2016. of each Director continues to be effective.
In particular the Nomination Committee considered Jonathans length of tenure THE BOARD and concluded that this had not compromised his independence This year, as it does annually, the Nomination Committee has in any way.
The Nomination Committee recommended to the also reviewed the composition of the Board.
As part of this review, Board that the terms of appointment for each non-Executive the Nomination Committee: Director be extended for a further three years.
considered the number of Executive and non-Executive Following this review the Nomination Committee has concluded Directors on the Board and whether the balance is appropriate: that the Board continues to have an appropriate mix of skills and reviewed the membership of the Board Committees: experience to operate effectively.
The Directors collectively bring considered the background, professions and core skills and a range of expertise and experience of different business sectors experience of the Directors to ensure the right mix of skills: to Board deliberations which helps to ensure constructive and challenging debate around the boardroom table.
considered and confirmed that all the non-Executives remain independent: and FUTURE PROOFING considered diversity, including gender.
We will continue to report annually against these objectives and The Nomination Committee carefully evaluated the performance other initiatives taking place within the Company which promote of Gareth Davis, the Groups Chairman.
This process was led by the gender and other forms of diversity.
Senior Independent Director and Gareth Davis was not present The Board has made some significant progress against the key during this process.
As part of the review, the Committee policy objectives during the year, as highlighted above.
During considered the following points from the Code: the year, the business has continued to embrace all forms of The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board diversity with the continuation of a number of initiatives: and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The annual Board evaluation process includes an assessment All Directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to of the Boards diversity including gender, helping to objectively the Company to effectively discharge their responsibilities.
consider its composition and effectiveness.
Full details of how we have progressed during the year and full details of the The Nomination Committee concluded that Gareths other 2016 17 action plan are on page 60. responsibilities do not detract from his ability to perform his role at A number of programmes to help people in our communities.
His other commitments strengthen the experience he DSSmith is one of the founder members of the Nestl Alliance brings to DS Smith and he has not missed a Board or Committee for YOUth, an alliance of leading companies in Europe that meeting since his appointment.
The Nomination Committee recognise that youth unemployment is a major social and recommended to the Board that his term of appointment be economic issue and are committed to helping solve it.
extended for a further three years.
The Nomination Committee also evaluated the performance of Kathleen ODonovan and Chris Britton whose threeyear terms expired in December 2015 and March 2016 respectively, and Jonathan Nicholls whose second threeyear term expired also in December 2015.
Neither Chris, Kathleen nor Jonathan was present when their performance was being considered.
The Nomination Gareth Davis Chairman KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Reinforcing the diversity of culture and expertise in the Boards composition and maintaining ongoing succession plans.
Considering ways to improve diversity in the pipeline for senior management roles.
Further strengthening of the senior management team.
Reviewing the Groups talent management process.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com investors corporate-governance committees Annual Report & Accounts 2016
