Governance Governance 63 Relations with stakeholders We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications which allow our shareholders to understand how we see our prospects and the market environments in which we operate.
The Company has a programme of regular meetings, site visits, business of the meeting.
To ensure compliance with the Code, results briefings and trading updates with its institutional separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject.
shareholders, equity analysts and investors.
These provide All Directors will retire and stand for re-election this year.
opportunities to discuss the progress of the business.
All To reflect the voting preferences of all shareholders wishing to presentations given to institutional shareholders are made vote at the AGM, the Company will take a poll on all resolutions available on our website, www.
com, along with press put to shareholders.
We offer all our shareholders the choice of releases, transcripts, audio files and current and historic Annual submitting proxy votes either electronically or in paper format.
The Board receives feedback from major shareholders We also offer them the facility to abstain.
The final results are following the full and halfyear results.
Together, the Chairman, published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the the Executive Directors, the Group Communications Director and Companys website following the AGM.
the Investor Relations Director ensure the Board is briefed on shareholders views, such that any issues or concerns are fully At our 2015 AGM, we received votes representing approximately understood and considered by the Board.
78% 2014: 74% of our issued share capital.
In order to assist in developing an understanding of the views Our next AGM will be held on Tuesday 6 September 2016, and of major shareholders, periodically the Company commissions all Directors plan to be in attendance.
Full details are contained a survey of investors undertaken by external consultants.
The in the Notice of Meeting available on our website and, where results of the survey are presented to the Board.
applicable, posted with this Annual Report.
The Senior Independent Director is available to discuss with SITE VISITS shareholders any major issues that cannot be resolved through Site visits provide invaluable insight into the business for Directors.
normal channels and to raise these with the Board if appropriate.
During the period, the Board visited the Margarethen am Moos The AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private Packaging plant in Austria.
The Board aims to undertake one site shareholders, including a short presentation on the business and visit per year.
Individual Directors can visit on an ad hoc basis and current trading position.
There is an opportunity for questions Miles Roberts and Adrian Marsh visit many sites throughout the from investors to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen year as part of their roles as Group Chief Executive and Group of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
All Directors make Finance Director.
themselves available to meet shareholders after the formal MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 Trading update Fullyear results US roadshow Discussions with AGM Trading update investors and Remuneration London Scotland European AGM statement Capital advisory bodies consultation with roadshow roadshow Markets day Investor prior to AGM key investors conferences NOVEMBER DECEMBER JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 Remuneration Halfyear results Sharesave US roadshow Trading update Information consultation with invitation made sent to all London Scotland Investor site visit key investors to employees shareholders roadshow about UK GAAP Investor conference dssmith.
