64 Governance Risk governance RISK GOVERNANCE READY TO LOOK AHEAD The Group continues to maintain rigorous procedures for understanding and managing its strategic risks.
We recognise that risks, and the way we manage their potential consequences, are part of our day-to-day thinking and key to accomplishing our strategic priorities.
Our risk management framework and the processes we put in place last year are operating well and serve to identify, assess and consider the possible remedies and responses to the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces.
The Group continues to improve the management of its key risks and to hold a strong position to absorb the financial and operational impact should those risks materialise.
In doing so, the Board is encouraged by the continuing work across the Group and its Divisions and the investments being made in risk management and to see the growing interest and skills of our employees in this area.
THE GROUPS RISK AND GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK ADDRESSES TWO OBJECTIVES: Ensures the Groups most significant risk exposures are Ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures understood and managed in accordance with an agreed and the operating effectiveness of the controls.
level of risk appetite and risk tolerance.
THE BOARD THE AUDIT COMMITTEE THE GROUP THE DIVISIONS The Group Operations Continue to identify, assess, Considers and defines the Annually reviews nature and level of risk that the adequacy and Committee GOC takes prioritise and manage risks responsibility as the Groups on a daily basis as a source the Group is prepared to effectiveness of our accept in order to deliver risk management system risk committee because of sustainable business the GOC fully understands opportunity and its business strategies.
in relation to the key risks and uncertainties and their what risks could affect the competitive advantage.
The Board is responsible influence on the strategic delivery of our Corporate The responsibility for for maintaining the Groups priorities of the Group.
The GOC is responsible designing, operating, risk management systems for identifying, reviewing, monitoring and maintaining and regularly reviews the evaluating and determining effective risk management Groups key risks.
the actions necessary within Divisions is delegated Annually, the Board reviews to manage the principal to the management of and approves the internal threats to and opportunities each Division.
Divisional statements on risk appetite to achieve the Group management teams apply and tolerance in relation to objectives.
It has the judgement in the evaluation the Groups principal risks authority to prioritise of the risks they face to and its strategic objectives.
risk-related resources and achieve their objectives.
set action plans in relation They determine which risks to the management of key are considered acceptable risks.
Each Division presents and assess the its risk management plans consequences of those and resources to the GOC risks while ensuring the annually for critique and costs of the relevant challenge for the proper controls are proportionate allocation of resource.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 65 INTERNAL CONTROL INTERNAL AUDIT The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of The Groups Internal Audit function undertakes regular reviews internal control, including financial, operational and compliance of the individual businesses operations and their systems of controls, and risk management systems, and for reviewing its internal control, makes recommendations to improve controls effectiveness.
Such a system, however, can only be designed to and follows up to ensure that management implements the manage rather than to eliminate risk and therefore can provide recommendations made.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Internal Audit plan is determined on a risk assessment misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the FRCs guidance on risk basis and is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
management, internal control and related financial and business Internal Audits findings are reported to Group and divisional reporting, we have in place the procedures necessary to ensure business management as well as to the Audit Committee.
that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Group.
These procedures The Board can confirm that it has carried out an annual review of have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the overall effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control the date of the approval of these financial statements.
Our risk and risk management procedures, during the year and up to the governance process, including how it is reviewed by the Board date of approval of this Annual Report.
This included a process of and the operation of the Group Risk Committee, is described in self-certification by senior divisional management in which they more detail on page 64. were asked to confirm that their divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and to report any significant control The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the weaknesses identified during the past year.
In addition, it involved Group.
It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters reviewing the results of the work of the Groups Internal Audit which are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Board has function and the risk identification and management processes delegated to management the responsibility for establishing identified above.
a system of internal control appropriate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements of GOING CONCERN this system include: In considering the going concern basis for preparing the a clearly defined divisional organisation structure for monitoring financial statements, the Directors have considered the Companys the conduct and operations of individual business units: objectives and strategy and risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives and its review of business performance, which are all set clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the matters reserved for the Board: out in the Strategic Report, Operating Review and Financial Review sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups liquidity a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the and funding arrangements are described in notes 18 and 20 to the Groups operations are identified and assessed on a regular financial statements, as well as in the capital structure and treasury basis, together with the controls in place to mitigate those management section of the Strategic Report.
Risk consideration is embedded in decision-making consider that the Group has significant covenant and liquidity processes.
The most significant risks are periodically reported headroom in its borrowing facilities for the foreseeable future.
to the Board and considered by it.
The risk process is reviewed by the Audit Committee: After reviewing the Companys expenditure commitments, current financial projections and expected future cash flows the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the with appropriate sensitivities applied, together with the available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the Board of the Corporate Plan: Directors have considered that adequate resources exist for the the monthly reporting of actual results and their review Company to continue in operational existence for a period of at against budget, forecasts including bank covenant headroom least twelve months from the date of approval of this Report.
and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern significant variances: basis in preparing the financial statements.
an Operating Framework laying down common control procedures and policies to apply throughout the Group.
This VIABILITY STATEMENT includes clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment, including appropriate authorisation levels, with See p 41 for our viability statement larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: regular formal meetings between the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues: and communicating key corporate values through our Code of Conduct to all employees.
