Letter from the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Liz Doherty Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee This has been a year of change for the Board and for the Audit All businesses continue to be exposed to cyber risks, and this and Risk Committee.
Keith Down was appointed as our new continues to be a standing agenda item for the Committee.
Chief Financial Officer in early December 2015, succeeding Following a number of high profile data security breaches at David Stead who retired from the Board at the end of that other businesses, the Committee carried out a deep dive month.
I am pleased to report that the transition has been a review of the processes in place at Dunelm to manage a data smooth one, reflecting the calibre of both individuals and the breach.
strength of the finance team and the controls and systems in Our programme of internal audit activity, supported by external place.
assurance providers, continued throughout the year.
Specific Marion Sears retired from the Committee in September 2015 reviews were conducted of the way in which we account for to comply with corporate governance guidelines, following supplier income and the accounting processes used with drop the Boards determination that she is no longer independent ship vendors.
due to her tenure on the Board.
I thank her for her vigilant and We paid our auditors  LLP advisory dedicated service to the Committee during the previous ten fees of 70,500 in the financial year, as against the audit fee years.
Andy Harrison also retired from the Committee when he of 75,000.
This relates to the review work carried out on our was appointed Chairman in July 2015, again to comply with interim results which we requested for the first time this year governance guidelines.
Both continue to make themselves to reflect the growing size and complexity of the business: to available for attendance as requested.
The Committee has some follow up work on senior management remuneration also welcomed our two new Non-Executive Directors, William from a previous year: and to a technical piece of work to Reeve and Peter Ruis, who joined the Board in July 2015 and support the future availability of distributable reserves.
We therefore have a healthy mix have adopted a new policy on use of our auditors for non-audit of old and new members to bring both corporate knowledge services for the FY17 financial year which is in line with recently and continuity as well as fresh perspectives.
We have spent time this year overseeing the preparations for Looking forward, we have noted the recent revisions to the Boards statements on long term viability, going concern the Corporate Governance Code which relate to Audit and risk management.
This work has involved looking again at Committees and also the Financial Reporting Councils our principal risks and ensuring that the process for reviewing guidance issued in June, and we will be taking steps to ensure and assessing them is expressly linked to our financial planning that we can demonstrate that we are adhering to these.
process, and to our annual report disclosures.
I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM.
The Board has responded to the FRCs Financial Reporting Labs paper in November 2015 on Disclosure of dividends Yours sincerely, policy and practice, and has provided a more detailed description of its capital and dividend policy.
This was reviewed Liz Doherty by the Committee prior to being adopted by the Board.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 14 September 2016 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 47 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
