Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Simon Emeny Chair of the Remuneration Committee This is my first letter as Chair of the Committee, and I would provide fair reward for strong performance.
We would consult like to start by thanking Marion Sears, my predecessor, for the with major shareholders before proposing any change.
detailed and dedicated work she has carried out chairing the In the financial year under review, our Chief Executive and Committee over the past ten years: and for putting in place Chief Financial Officer have earned an annual bonus equal to the principles behind our remuneration structure, which have 58% of the maximum, reflecting the financial performance of been largely unchanged since flotation in 2006.
I have been a the business, the work that has been carried out to further our member of the Committee for the past nine years, and intend eight strategic initiatives, and their own personal performance.
to continue to apply these principles, which have the support Although both have received awards under our Long Term of our shareholders and are in line with best practice.
Incentive Plan, these awards will not vest until 2018, subject of Last year we put forward a revised Remuneration Policy for course to performance conditions.
Will Adderleys basic salary approval at the AGM.
We needed to update the performancewas reduced to 1 from 1 July 2015 at his request, and he has related elements of Executive remuneration following the also waived his entitlement to an award under the Long Term appointment of our new Executive team, John Browett Incentive Plan.
Total executive pay was therefore 1.8m, 1.4% Chief Executive and Keith Down Chief Financial Officer.
I am pleased that the policy was approved by 97.7% of our Our 2015 policy also requires that newly appointed Executive shareholders, reflecting the positive feedback that we had Directors are required to make an investment in Dunelm shares received through prior consultation with our major institutional on appointment subject to Company closed periods.
This policy is set out on the following pages pleased to report that in October 2015 John Browett purchased of this report, although we are not asking for shareholder 21,606 shares for 200,227 and Keith Down purchased 5,265 approval this year.
shares for 49,500: Keith made a further purchase of 3,246 The Committee is aware that remuneration continues to be shares in April 2016 for 29,700.
Since the year end John and an issue of focus for shareholders and governance analysts, Keith have purchased 4,534 and 5,629 shares respectively, particularly where executive reward earned is out of line with taking their total holdings at the date of this report to: John profits and shareholder returns.
Our policy has always been Browett: 27,785 shares and Keith Down: 14,140 shares.
to structure remuneration so as to reward shareholder value For completeness I should add that Will Adderley and David creation over the long term, so that the majority is performance Stead did not receive any payment in respect of loss of office based according to stretching targets.
We consider that when John Browett and Keith Down assumed the roles of this remains relevant and are pleased that our simplicity of Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
David approach and execution is in line with recent policy statements Stead, who retired as a good leaver after 12 years, has been issued by institutional investor bodies, and the Executive permitted to benefit from performance-related bonus and LTIP Remuneration Working Group.
options earned during his employment, pro-rated to his service At the time of writing this report, the effects of the United and after applying performance criteria.
Full details were Kingdoms vote to leave the European Union is unclear.
A disclosed on his retirement and are set out in the report and in sustained economic slowdown or a significant increase in last years report, and are in line with our approved policy.
our cost base could have a material effect on the potential I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM.
outcome of our performance based incentive schemes, particularly the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Although we have Yours sincerely, left the targets unchanged for the LTIP awards to be granted this year, we will review these before we make awards in 2017 Simon Emeny to ensure that they continue to be in line with our policy to Chair of the Remuneration Committee 14 September 2016 dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 52 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
