Audit and Risk Committee Report 2015 16 SUMMARY Principal activities X Review of annual financial statements for FY15 and interim results for FY16 X Review of the process for the identification and mitigation of principal risks including the development of an assurance framework and the process for Board oversight X Review of approach to the viability statement X Review of processes in place to minimise the risk of a data security breach and the process for handling one in the event that one occurred X External assurance reviews of supplier income and the accounting processes used for drop ship vendors Since the year end X Approval of the full year annual financial statements for FY16 X Approval of the Boards dividend policy statement X Approval of the Boards tax policy statement X Approval of revised policy on use of auditors to provide non-audit services This report provides details of the role of the Audit and Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year and at its meeting in September 2016 when the annual report and financial statements were approved.
Principal duties The principal duties of the Committee are to: X oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial performance X hold the relationship with the external auditors and oversee the external audit process X oversee the internal audit process X monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Groups website, www.
These terms were last reviewed by the Committee in September 2016.
The Committee has approved a policy which allows employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear of discrimination, including access to an independent whistleblowing helpline.
A copy of our policy is available on our corporate website.
During the year the Committee received reports detailing the calls made to the helpline.
Committee membership The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Name From: To: Liz Doherty Chair 1 May 2013 To date 3 Marion Sears 18 January 2005 11 September 2015 Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date 1 Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 7 July 2015 2 Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 To date 1.
Andy Harrison stepped down from the Committee due to his appointment as Chairman on 8 July 2015.
Peter Ruis was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 10 September 2015.
Marion Sears stepped down from the Committee on 11 September 2015.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
com Stock code: DNLM 48 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 48 12 10 2016 09:56:36 The Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman of the Specific topics Board usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a z Review of the process used to support the viability representative from the external auditors.
Other Directors statement to be given in the FY16 annual report attend by invitation as required.
z Review of processes in place to manage a data security The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial breach experience by virtue of my professional qualification and my z Review and approval of dividend policy statement previous executive roles, including as Chief Financial Officer z Revision of our policy on use of auditors for non-audit work of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Members of the Committee can also demonstrate a breadth of experience across the retail z External assurance review of supplier income and the and consumer goods sector through their current and previous process used with drop ship vendors roles please see the Directors biographies on pages 36 to 38 Significant areas of judgement for full details.
Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors the Committee activities in 2015 16 integrity of the annual and half year results and interim Three meetings were held in the year and members management statements, including a review of the significant attendance was as shown in the table below.
financial reporting issues and judgements contained in them.
At its meetings in September 2015 and 2016, the Committee Name Meetings attended reviewed a comprehensive paper prepared by the Chief Liz Doherty 3 Financial Officer, which analysed the Groups results for the 1 financial year: highlighted matters arising in the preparation of Marion Sears 1 the Group financial statements: and provided information to Simon Emeny 3 support the Directors viability and going concern statements.
William Reeve 3 The Committee also considered a paper prepared by the external auditors, which included significant reporting and 1 Andy Harrison 0 accounting matters.
2 Peter Ruis 2 The major accounting issues discussed by the Committee in 1.
Andy Harrison stepped down from the Committee on 8 July 2015 and September 2016 in relation to the FY16 Annual Report and Marion Sears retired on 11 September 2015.
They attended all meetings during their tenure on the Committee.
Financial Statements were as follows: 2.
Peter Ruis was appointed to the Board on 10 September 2016.
He has Provisions for inventory, returns and attended all meetings since then.
property The activities of the Committee included: For each of the above, the Committee considered the approach taken by management and assessed available Routine items evidence, including historical outcomes.
Particular attention z Approval of the full year results issued in September 2015 was given to reviewing the provision for obsolete, slow-moving and the half year results issued in February 2016 or discontinued inventory and the pattern of stock clearance z Review of the process for identifying and managing risk over the financial period.
The Committee concluded that the within the business in September 2015, and a full review of values recorded in the financial statements are appropriate.
the principal risks and how they are managed by the Board Complex supplier arrangements in February 2016 The Committee received a report from management on z Verification of the independence of the auditor and the nature and scale of supplier income.
The Committee approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee noted that the main source of supplier income is through z Review of fraud and Bribery Act controls and cyber security retrospective volume rebates, that these are not significant which are standing agenda items for each meeting in the context of the Groups financial statements, and that z Receipt of external assurance reports see below managements policy for recognising such income is in any z Approval of the annual Audit and Risk Committee report event conservative.
z Review of whether the FY15 and FY16 annual reports are Fair, balanced and understandable fair, balanced and understandable At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered z Annual review of tax policy, business control framework and whether the annual report and financial statements as a whole terms of reference are fair, balanced and understandable.
Factors taken into account included: z Does the narrative of the Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers reviews fairly reflect the performance of the Group over the period reported on?
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 49 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 49 12 10 2016 09:56:36 governance Audit and Risk Committee Report CONTINUED z Are the narrative sections consistent with each other, and Resolutions to reappoint  LLP with the financial statements?
as auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
z Is the connection between strategy and remuneration clearly described?
Use of auditors for non-audit work z Can readers easily identify key events that happened during The Committee is aware that the use of audit firms for nonthe year?
audit work is a sensitive issue for investors and corporate governance analysts, as it could potentially give rise to a Committee members received the draft annual report in conflict of interest.
advance and had the opportunity to make comments in advance of the formal meeting at which the report was tabled We have a relatively flat management structure and all for approval.
advisory work commissioned from our auditor is required to be sanctioned by the Chief Financial Officer, who obtains the prior Following its review, the Committee confirmed that the FY16 approval of the Committee or between meetings of myself as annual report was fair, balanced and understandable.
Consent would only be given if there are External auditor no issues regarding independence.
Much of the advisory work The report and financial statements were audited by that we outsource is tax related, and we have retained the services of KPMG for this purpose.
 LLP, following that firms appointment as statutory auditor in January 2014.
Following the issue of the EU Audit Directive in June 2016, we One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit and Risk reviewed our policy on the use of auditors for non-audit work Committee is to assess the effectiveness of the external audit in September 2016.
The full policy is available on our website, process and make recommendations to the Board in relation to www.
com, but in summary from FY17: the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external z Fees for non-audit services provided by the statutory auditors.
The Committee took a number of factors into account auditor in any year may not exceed 70% of the average fees in its assessment, including but not limited to: for the Group statutory audit in the three previous years.
z The quality and scope of the planning of the audit.
In z The auditor will be prohibited from providing certain nonFebruary 2016, the external auditors presented their audit services, including: strategy for 2015 16 to the Committee.
The Committee almost all tax work reviewed and agreed with the external auditors assessment internal audit of risk.
The Committee also reviewed the audit approach and the approach to assessing materiality for the Group: corporate finance z The quality of reports provided to the Committee and the involvement in management activities, including working Board and the quality of advice given: capital and cash management and the provision of financial information.
z The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and the retail sector: During the period we paid  LLP z The objectivity of the external auditors views on the 70,500, of which 15,000 related to their review of the controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge interim financial statements and 40,000 to a technical piece and findings on areas which required management of work to support the future availability of distributable judgement: reserves.
The remainder was in relation to an executive salary benchmarking exercise for below Board Executives.
In each z The findings from the FRCs annual inspection of auditors case they were considered to be the best firm to provide published in May 2016. the work in view of their expertise and knowledge of the The fee paid to  LLP for the statutory Group.
Their appointment was made in line with the policy audit of the Group and Company financial statements applicable during the financial year, and was approved by me and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation as Committee Chair.
A breakdown of non-audit fees paid to Fees paid to  LLP for audit work were  LLP during the financial year is set 75,000. out below.
 LLP attended the Committee meetings in September 2015, February, June and September 2016.
The Committee also met privately with them during the September meetings, and as Chair of the Committee I had dialogue with the audit partner on a number of occasions.
com Stock code: DNLM 50 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 50 12 10 2016 09:56:36 Auditor rotation Internal control framework It is our policy to tender the statutory audit at least every five In 2015 the Committee adopted a formal internal control years and to rotate auditors at least every 20 years, in line framework, covering the following areas: business ethics with the requirements of the EU Audit Directive.
This means including anti-bribery controls: accountabilities: people that the next tender will be for the 2018 19 audit at the latest.
management, including succession planning: development and We will also invite at least one firm outside the Big Four alignment of incentives: risk management processes: internal to participate in the tender process.
I can confirm that the control: crisis management: monitoring and reporting.
Company has complied with The Statutory Audit Services The framework and the controls in place were reviewed by the for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use Committee in June 2016, together with progress that had been of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee made against actions agreed in 2015.
Although no significant Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year.
control weaknesses have been identified, we agreed that we would look at how assurance of performance against the Viability statement and risk management controls is gained to identify whether any further assurance is The Company is required to provide a viability statement needed.
for the first time in this years annual report.
The Committee reviewed the process in place to support the assurance given.
Information security This included a full review of the principal risks facing the Information security remains one of the most important risk Group and the process by which they are managed by the areas and it is a standing Committee agenda item, as well as Board and management.
We also reviewed the risks in the being one of the Boards principal risks, as outlined in the Risks context of our strategic and financial planning process to and Uncertainties section of this annual report.
In view of the ensure that all elements are appropriately aligned.
As a result high profile data breaches suffered by certain retailers, and of this review, we revised the Principal Risks and Uncertainties the tougher data protection regime that will shortly come into statement set out in this report to make it more consistent with force under the terms of the Data Protection Directive, this year the terminology used by management.
the Committee also reviewed the processes we have in place The Committee formally reviewed the process in place to to minimise the risk of a data breach and also the steps that support the viability statement and for the identification and we would take in the event that a breach occurred, and found management of risks in September 2016 and confirmed that it them to be appropriate.
is appropriate and in compliance with regulatory requirements.
Approved by the Board of Dunelm Group plc on 14 September 2016 and signed on its behalf by Internal audit external assurance The Committee initiated a formalised programme in 2013 with activities conducted either by an internal team that is Liz Doherty Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee independent of the area under review, or by an external party, decided on a case by case basis.
In either case, the review is conducted on behalf of the Committee and reports back to them.
In February 2016 the Committee discussed and agreed that this approach to internal audit remains satisfactory.
Topics reviewed in the year are set out below: Review topic Reviewed by Review of supplier income KPMG Drop ship vendor processes KPMG Reports were discussed by the Committee and the Board and a number of actions agreed to improve controls.
In addition, the Committee monitored progress against actions agreed following the reports received in the 2014-15 financial year from external assurance providers in relation to pensions auto-enrolment.
All agreed actions are now completed.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 51 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
