Letter from the Chair of the Nominations Committee Andy Harrison Chair of the Nominations Committee Last year we announced a number of changes to our Board as We now have a Board with a combination of experience and part of our long term succession plan as Dunelm moves into its fresh ideas, with complementary retail, consumer and online next chapter of growth.
This has been a year of transition for expertise.
The Board is already working well together, and I the Board during which these changes have taken effect.
expect that we will continue to build on this over the coming months and years.
I succeeded Geoff Cooper as Chairman of the Board at the start of the financial year in July 2015, and became Chair of this This year we held an externally facilitated Board evaluation, Committee in March of this year.
The previous chair, Marion which was completed shortly before the financial year end.
This Sears, played a major part in shaping the Board that we have confirmed that your new Board is working well together and today during her ten years as Committee Chair and I thank her brought some helpful insights to make us more effective.
on behalf of the Board and shareholders for her diligent and A number of external bodies have commented during the year committed work.
on the importance of the work of the Nominations Committee As we announced last year, our Executive team changed during in overseeing succession planning in particular, including the the year.
In January 2016, John Browett formally succeeded Financial Reporting Council and the report produced through Will Adderley as Chief Executive, after a six month induction a collaboration between Ernst & Young and the Institute of during which he spent time working in all parts of the business, Company Secretaries and Administrators.
We have a number developing the eight strategic initiatives which underpin our of the recommended best practice processes in place, growth strategy, and making a number of new appointments to including a formal Board succession plan, and oversight of strengthen the Executive team.
The Board and the business are the composition and changes to the Executive team below already benefiting from Johns clear leadership and experience, the Board.
This focus will continue and grow over the coming which, combined with that of Will Adderley, means we now years.
have two top retailers on our Board.
Looking forward, as part of our normal succession process, we Keith Down succeeded David Stead as Chief Financial Officer expect to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director during in December 2015.
David retired from the Board after twelve 2017 to succeed Simon Emeny, who is expected to step down years on the Board.
During this period he built and led the at the 2017 AGM after ten years on the Board.
finance team and, until recently, the IT and HR functions Yours sincerely, through the Groups IPO in 2006 and the sustained growth which followed.
Keith has brought a wealth of experience from Andy Harrison his previous roles in the consumer, hospitality and transport Chair of the Nominations Committee sectors, and he has already made an impact at the Board and 14 September 2016 with the wider Executive team.
We were also joined by two new Non-Executives: William Reeve in July 2015 and Peter Ruis in September 2015. dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 78 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
