Corporate Governance Report 2015 16 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 7 JULY 2015 31 DECEMBER 2015 Geoff Cooper retired as Chairman David Stead retired from the Board 8 JULY 2015 1 JANUARY 2016 John Browett succeeded Will Adderley as Chief Executive: Andy Harrison succeeded Geoff Cooper as Chairman Will became Deputy Chairman 10 SEPTEMBER 2015 7 JANUARY 2016 Peter Ruis appointed as a Non-Executive Director Corporate Governance presentation to shareholders 11 SEPTEMBER 2015 11 MARCH 2016 Simon Emeny succeeded Marion Sears as Chair of the Remuneration Committee Andy Harrison succeeded Marion Sears as Chair of the Nominations Committee 24 NOVEMBER 2015 MARCH TO JUNE 2016 AGM revised Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders External Board evaluation 7 DECEMBER 2015 Keith Down succeeded David Stead as Chief Financial Officer Overview Code compliance Our approach to governance has been unchanged since This report explains how we have applied the principles of flotation in 2006, and can be summarised as follows: good governance and code of best practice set out in the Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 z We believe that good governance leads to stronger value the Corporate Governance Code.
creation and lower risks for shareholders.
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the z It is the Boards responsibility to instil and maintain a culture Corporate Governance Code during the financial year covered of honesty, integrity and transparency throughout the by this annual report, with the exception of the fact that Marion business, through our policies, communications and by the Sears, determined by the Board in September 2015 to be way in which we act.
no longer independent, continued to chair the Nominations z We support corporate governance guidelines and apply Committee during a transitional period until March 2016.
The them in a way that is meaningful to our business and Nominations Committee did not meet during this time.
consistent with our culture and values.
The Board considers that it has continued to comply with the z If we decide that the interests of the Company and its Corporate Governance Code since the financial year end.
In shareholders can be better served by doing things in a making its determination, particular consideration was given different way, we will explain the reasons why.
to the independence of Simon Emeny, who has served nine For more information please see the copy of the presentations years on the Board in June 2016.
Further details are given in that we made to our major institutional investors and the section below headed Independence of Non-Executive shareholder representatives in January 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 Directors.
and 2016, available in the Reports and Presentations section of our corporate website.
com Stock code: DNLM 40 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 40 12 10 2016 09:56:26 Board role and composition The Board has three roles: STRATEGY GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE Set the strategy to secure the Instil and maintain a culture of Review progress towards strategic continued growth of the Group honesty, integrity and transparency.
and operational goals and the over the long term in the interests performance of management.
Ensure that financial and other of our shareholders, taking account controls and processes for risk Board balance and committee of our responsibilities to colleagues, management are in place and membership is appropriate and customers, the community in which working effectively.
effective, and fully compliant with we operate and the interests of our the requirements of the Corporate other stakeholders.
Set an effective remuneration policy.
Ensure that resources are in place to Maintain good relationships with deliver the strategy.
The Board structure at the date of this report is shown below: ANDY HARRISON CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVES NON-INDEPENDENTS INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVES Will Adderley Deputy Chairman Simon Emeny Senior Independent Director John Browett Chief Executive Liz Doherty Non-Executive Director Keith Down Chief Financial Officer William Reeve Non-Executive Director Marion Sears Non-Executive Director Peter Ruis Non-Executive Director The names and roles of each of the Directors during the period are set out in the table below.
Name Position at period end Committee Chair Note Andy Harrison Chairman Nominations Succeeded Geoff Cooper as Chairman on 8 July 2015.
Will Adderley Deputy Chairman None Was Chief Executive until he was succeeded by John Browett on 1 January 2016.
John Browett Chief Executive None Became Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
Prior to that was Chief Executive Designate.
Keith Down Chief Financial Officer None Appointed on 7 December 2015.
Simon Emeny Senior Independent Director Remuneration Chair of Remuneration Committee from 11 September 2015.
Marion Sears Non-Executive Director None Retired as Remuneration Committee Chair on 11 September 2015 and as Nominations Committee Chair on 11 March 2016.
Liz Doherty Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk William Reeve Non-Executive Director None Peter Ruis Non-Executive Director None Appointed on 10 September 2015.
Geoff Cooper None None Former Chairman, retired from the Board on 7 July 2015.
David Stead None None Former Chief Financial Officer.
Succeeded by Keith Down on 7 December 2015 and retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 41 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 41 12 10 2016 09:56:27 governance Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED non-independent Director since September 2015 in view of Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief her tenure of more than nine years on the Board.
In March Executive responsibilities 2016 she was appointed a director of WA Capital Limited.
WA The Board has adopted written statements setting out the Capital Limited is a private limited company established by Will respective responsibilities of the Chairman, the Deputy Adderley the Deputy Chairman, and a major shareholder to Chairman and the Chief Executive: these are available on the act as a long term holding company for his beneficial interest Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
In general in the Company and various other investments.
One of the terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and factors set out in the Corporate Governance Code to indicate the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups that a director may not be independent is the existence of business.
The Deputy Chairman supports the Chairman and a relationship which is likely to affect or could appear to the Chief Executive and undertakes activities to promote the affect the directors judgement and or cross-directorships or long term interests of the business and preserve its culture.
significant links to other directors through involvement in other companies.
The Dunelm Board considered the matter prior to Independence of Non-Executive Marions appointment to the Board of WA Capital and decided Directors that it would not affect her judgement as a Director of Dunelm: As required by the Corporate Governance Code and the and that any potential conflict of interest could be cleared on Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, the the basis that WA Capital Limited and Will Adderley are parties Board considers annually whether all independent Nonto a Relationship Agreement referred to below in the section Executive Directors continue to exhibit independence of headed Conflicts of Interest which regulates their conduct.
character and judgement prior to putting them forward Further, as Marion is already treated as non-independent, there for reappointment at the AGM.
This was last considered in are no implications for Board composition.
The Board therefore September 2016 and we confirmed that Andy Harrison was gave prior consent to the appointment, and considered and independent on appointment and that Simon Emeny, Liz cleared the potential conflict of interest.
Doherty, William Reeve and Peter Ruis are independent.
Both Marion and Simon will put themselves forward for As noted above, in the Boards annual review of the reappointment at the AGM by shareholders independent of independence of the Non-Executive Directors in September the Adderley family as well as a full shareholder vote.
2016, particular consideration was given to the assessment of Simon Emenys independence in view of his nine year tenure.
As noted in the report of the Nominations Committee, Board To help preserve continuity following changes to the Board in refreshment is a continued area of focus and we continue to the past year, Simon has been asked to stay on until the AGM consider the tenure of all Directors as part of our succession in 2017, at which point we would anticipate the appointment planning.
Our policy on Board diversity is explained in the of an additional independent Non-Executive Director to Nominations Committee report.
The Board determined that Simons tenure has in no way affected his independence of character and judgement, and therefore he should continue to be considered as independent.
The Board has treated Marion Sears as a Change of Non-Executive Director responsibilities During the period the following planned changes in the responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors took place: Date Role Previous New 8 July 2015 Chairman Geoff Cooper Andy Harrison 11 September 2015 Chair of Remuneration Committee Marion Sears Simon Emeny 11 March 2016 Chair of Nominations Committee Marion Sears Andy Harrison dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 42 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 42 12 10 2016 09:56:27 Board attendance Areas of focus The Board held ten meetings in the course of the year, one of Strategy which was dedicated to a formal review of strategy.
Attendance X Group strategy, X Culture and values at meetings was as follows: including our eight X Treasury policy strategic initiatives X Capital and Director Meetings attended X Property strategy Dividend policy Will Adderley 10 X Budget X Tax policy John Browett 10 1 Geoff Cooper 1 Governance X Board succession X Risk reviews and Liz Doherty 10 and risk what keeps us X Board 2 awake at night Keith Down 6 independence, composition and X Health and safety Simon Emeny 10 diversity X Ethical sourcing Andy Harrison 10 X Investor feedback X Modern slavery 2 Peter Ruis 8 via advisors X IT security and William Reeve 9 X AGM voting and cyber security feedback Marion Sears 10 X Market abuse 1 regulation David Stead 4 1.
Geoff Cooper and David Stead attended all meetings prior to their Operational retirement.
Peter Ruis and Keith Down attended all meetings subsequent to their and colleague X Customer insight appointment.
engagement X Store operating Any Director who was unable to attend a meeting received the X Supply chain model papers in advance and passed on comments to the Chairman.
strategy X Format X Product quality Board meetings development There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, which is available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such We measure the time spent on strategy, governance and matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital operational performance at each meeting.
Over the year, the structure, approval of financial results and report and financial biggest part of our time was spent on strategy, followed by statements, significant capital or contractual commitments, governance and operational performance, which the Board maintaining internal control and risk management and approval considers to be appropriate.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Company Secretary and committee secretary respectively and Officer report on operational performance including health circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a and safety and the Chief Financial Officer reports on financial Director are recorded in the minutes.
There is a rolling agenda of other operational, Non-Executive Director meetings strategic and risk topics which is regularly refreshed to reflect The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors formally the most up-to-date strategy and live issues in the business.
met once during the year without Executive Directors being The principal topics discussed by the Board in 2015 16 were: present and regularly have informal, individual, meetings with the Executive Directors and other senior managers in the business, usually at a store location.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 43 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 43 12 10 2016 09:56:27 governance Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED Board committees Evaluation The Board has appointed three committees, an Audit and Risk Each of the Directors receives a formal evaluation of their performance during the year.
Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these The Board and committees are also formally evaluated as a committees can be found on the Groups website and are whole.
available from the Company Secretary.
2015 Evaluation Details of the membership of the committees and of their The actions arising from the 2015 review conducted by Andy activities during the past financial year can be found in the Harrison, as incoming Chairman, were: reports from the Chair of each of the committees.
z To ensure that the Board retains and builds on its strengths Training and induction in the coming year during a period of substantial change Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a around the Board table.
comprehensive and tailored induction programme with z Continued focus on the Board succession plan.
visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and other colleagues.
This includes access to recent Board and The Board considered that these objectives, which were Committee papers, including strategy documentation: necessarily broad in a year of change in the composition of meetings with each of the Executive Directors and the Board, have been met.
This was confirmed by the 2016 the Company Secretary and other members of senior external Board evaluation.
management: store visits: meetings with advisers such as the auditors.
2016 Evaluation An external evaluation was conducted by Lorna Parker in This year four new Directors joined the Board, two Executives April to June of 2016.
Lorna Parker does not have any other and two Non-Executives.
connection with the Group or any of its Directors.
z John Browett, Chief Executive, had a six month period The conclusion of this evaluation was that the Board and its as Chief Executive designate, which he spent gaining a committees are functioning well and dynamics are good, detailed knowledge of the business.
This included time with all members actively engaged, proud to be associated working in stores and our distribution centre and meeting with Dunelm and ambitious for its future.
A number of with advisers and key suppliers, as well as getting to know recommendations were made and accepted by the Board to Board members and senior management.
This work enabled build on this and make the Board even more effective.
The key him to formulate the Senior Management Team and devise recommendations were: the eight strategic initiatives that will drive forward the Boards strategy.
z Refocusing the Boards agenda so that more time is spent discussing key aspects of the strategy where the Board can z Keith Down, Chief Financial Officer, had a short handover add most value to the Executive team, with sufficient time period with his predecessor David Stead.
He had a formal on each topic to allow a free flowing debate.
induction programme which included time with Board members and other senior managers in store, as well as z Build more structured Non-Executive time into the Board meetings with advisers and our auditors.
timetable: additional Non-Executive only dinners and scheduled Non-Executive only sessions at the end of each z William Reeve and Peter Ruis, Non-Executive Directors, both Board meeting.
met with the Chairman and other Directors and have met other senior management in store.
They received a briefing z Maximising value from the Non-Executive Directors by from the Company Secretary on the duties of PLC directors.
informal mentoring of Executives and continuing to share their specialist knowledge and leadership experience We have an open culture and Non-Executive Directors are through presentations to the Senior Management Team.
free to make direct contact with senior management and store z The Company Secretary to facilitate more formal teams.
Throughout the year all Directors have visited stores governance training for the Non-Executive Directors.
both informally and together with members of the senior management team.
The Company Secretary reports to the Board at each meeting on new legal, regulatory and governance developments that affect the Group and actions are agreed where needed.
Directors attend seminars and tutorials provided by independent organisations which cover a wide range of governance topics.
As part of the annual Board evaluation, any additional training or development needs are addressed by the Chairman with each Director.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages 36 to 38 for details of the specific skills and experience of each Director.
com Stock code: DNLM 44 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 44 12 10 2016 09:56:27 Our corporate website contains useful shareholder information, Investor relations and understanding copies of presentations and policies in relation to governance shareholder views and corporate social responsibility.
We formalised our Investor Relations Strategy in 2013 and it is production.
available on our corporate website.
The main elements are: All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to Event Company attendees meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
Rule 9 waiver Results presentation Presented by Chief Executive and Twice a year Chief Financial Officer In April, Will Adderley, our Deputy Chairman and a major Attended by Chairman and other shareholder, disposed of part of his shareholding.
As his Directors shareholding is now below 30%, and the combined Adderley shareholding is above 50%, we are no longer required to seek a Rule 9 waiver at AGM to support our policy to buy back shares Meetings with institutional Chief Executive and Chief to satisfy employee share option entitlements, so long as this investors roadshow Financial Officer Twice a year Chairman and Non-Executive situation remains the case after the Company share purchase.
Directors attend a selection of The Rule 9 waiver vote caused a policy difficulty for a number meetings of our institutional shareholders, which can now be avoided.
The Board has reviewed whether our policy to purchase shares Adderley family dinner All Directors and Company in the market to satisfy share option entitlements as opposed Once a year Secretary to issuing shares is still appropriate: we believe that it is in the interests of our shareholder base as a whole as it avoids dilution AGM All Directors and Company of shareholdings, and it is supported by the majority of our Once a year Secretary institutional shareholders.
I would like to reassure shareholders again that shares bought back by the Company will be held in Corporate governance Chairman, Non-Executive treasury and used only to satisfy share option entitlements, and presentation Directors and Will Adderley not cancelled.
Every one or two years Significant shareholders The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors Analyst and shareholder Chief Executive and Chief report on page 83 and voting rights are stated on page 82. presentation at store Financial Officer Every two or three years Other senior managers as Conflicts of interest appropriate The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer report back individual Directors where the Articles of Association contain a to the Board after the investor roadshows.
The Groups brokers provision to that effect.
The Companys Articles of Association and financial PR advisers also provide a written feedback report give the Board this authority subject to the following after the full and half year results announcements and investor safeguards: roadshows to inform the Board about investor views, and in addition Non-Executive Directors attend a selection of investor Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at meetings.
a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
In January we held a Corporate Governance meeting, attended by Will Adderley, the Non-Executive Directors, the Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being Company Secretary and myself, to which our major institutional considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, shareholders were invited.
This was the first opportunity for the in taking that decision the Directors must act in a way they corporate governance representatives of our shareholders to consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the meet with the new Non-Executive team following the changes success of the Company.
that have taken place during 2015.
We had a useful exchange The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when of views on a number of governance topics, including Board giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
composition, the work of the Audit and Risk Committee, remuneration, the Rule 9 waiver and corporate social responsibility.
The views expressed were considered by the full Board and have been taken into account in our subsequent Board discussions.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 45 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 45 12 10 2016 09:56:27 governance Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential Powers of Directors conflicts to the Board and the following existing matters have The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which been considered and approved: may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Act, the Articles of Association z Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to of the Company and any special resolution of the Company.
Authorised on the basis that As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations Will continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship of authority in accordance with the Code and these set out Agreement entered into between himself, other major matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the shareholders and the Company on flotation of the Company powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief Executive in 2006. respectively.
z Marion Sears is a director of WA Capital Limited, a private limited company established by Will Adderley to act as a At the Annual General Meetings of the Company from 2007 long term holding company for his beneficial interest in the onwards, the Board has sought and been given authority Company and various other investments.
Authorised on the to issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares.
Similar basis that WA Capital Limited is party to the Relationship resolutions are being tabled at the 2016 Annual General Agreement referred to above.
Any shares bought back would be held in treasury for reissue to employees who exercise options under one of Any actual or potential conflicts are considered by the Board the Groups share incentive schemes.
For further details see and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this and reviewed annually by the Board.
Conflicts that have been disclosed are reviewed annually by Advice and insurance the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek legal of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in effectively.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Group purchases Directors and Officers liability insurance The Articles of Association of the Company provide that cover for its Directors.
a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Articles of Association Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Board so long as the Director stands down and offers him or by a special resolution of shareholders.
herself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director Governance and risk must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by Details of our risk management framework, systems and shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every controls and internal control framework are set out in the three years.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement Strategic report on pages 17 to 25. of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should stand down and offer themselves for re-election at each Annual This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on General Meeting.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special Andy Harrison Chairman notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if they are prohibited by law from being a Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his or her office be vacated if he or she is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
NonExecutive Directors will also be subject to a separate vote by shareholders independent of the Adderley family as required by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
com Stock code: DNLM 46 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
