Nominations Committee Report 2015 16 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES X Andy Harrison succeeded Geoff Cooper as Chairman X John Browett succeeded Will Adderley as Chief Executive in January 2016: Will Adderley becomes Deputy Chairman X Keith Down succeeded David Stead as Chief Financial Officer on his retirement in December 2015 X Peter Ruis appointed as a Non-Executive Director X Changes to Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee Chairs X External Board evaluation This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Principal duties The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when new appointments to the Board are made.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
While all Board appointment processes and succession discussions are led by the Nominations Committee, these are viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment has been or will be made to the Board without agreement of all Directors.
Committee Membership The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Period from: To: Member Andy Harrison Chair 1 September 2014 To date 2 Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date To date Will Adderley 17 February 2011 Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 To date 1 Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 7 July 2015 1.
Geoff Cooper resigned from the Committee on 7 July 2015, upon his retirement from the Board.
Marion Sears was Chair of the Committee until 11 March 2016, when she was succeeded by Andy Harrison.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 79 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 79 12 10 2016 09:56:53 governance Nominations Committee Report CONTINUED There were two formal Committee meetings held in the year Summary of Board changes in 201516 and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
X July 2015: Andy Harrison succeeded Geoff Cooper as The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No Director attended that part of a meeting during which his X September 2015: Peter Ruis appointed as a Non-Executive or her own position was discussed.
Simon Emeny succeeded Marion Sears as Chair of the Meetings attended: Member Remuneration Committee.
Andy Harrison Chair 2 X December 2015: Keith Down succeeded David Stead as Simon Emeny 2 Chief Financial Officer.
Will Adderley 2 David Stead retired.
Liz Doherty 2 X January 2016: John Browett succeeded Will Adderley as 1 Chief Executive.
Marion Sears 2 Will Adderley become Deputy Chairman.
William Reeve 2 X March 2016: Andy Harrison succeeded Marion Sears as 3 Peter Ruis 0 Chair of the Nominations Committee.
2 Geoff Cooper 1 All of these changes were described in last years Nominations 1.
Marion Sears chaired the Committee until 11 March 2016.
Geoff Cooper retired from the Board and the Committee on 7 July 2015.
There was one meeting during his tenure.
Peter Ruis was appointed to the Board and the Committee on This year we appointed a third party, Lorna Parker, to carry out 10 September 2015.
No meetings were held during his tenure.
a formal evaluation of the Board and its processes.
The review confirmed that there is a good balance of complementary skills Committee Activities in 201516 and experiences on the Board, and that compared to many Board Succession Planning other companies the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors For a number of years we have had a formal, long range plan are especially hard-working, committed and involved.
for how Board membership should develop.
As usual, we Separately I carried out a formal evaluation of the Nonaim to balance continuity with regular refreshment of skill and Executive Directors and the Chief Executive: the Chief experience.
Executive reviewed the performance of the Chief Financial In 2015-16 a number of changes planned and announced in Officer: and the Non-Executive Directors reviewed my the previous year took effect.
On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are Diversity discussed with regard to serving on the Board and their In 2011 we set out the Boards policy on diversity which we succession is considered in the context of the shape of the believe remains appropriate for Dunelm.
It can be summarised overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on as follows: Non-Executive Director tenure.
This transparency amongst a small and collegiate Board allows for an open discussion about z Whilst confirming that our overriding concern is to ensure succession for each individual, both for short-term emergency the Board comprises outstanding individuals who can purposes as well as longer-term plans.
lead the Group, we also believe the Groups best interests are served by ensuring that these individuals represent a As part of our Board evaluation process, we conducted an range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, analysis of the balance of skills on the Board as a whole, including gender.
taking account of the future needs of the business, and the z Accordingly, it is our policy that the Board should always be knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of mixed gender.
In accordance with our policy, we also had regard to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, z Quotas are not appropriate as a target for female backgrounds and experiences amongst Board members.
representation on company boards, since they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
z We will seek to ensure that specific effort is made to bring forward female candidates for Board appointments.
z We will monitor the Groups approach to people development to ensure that it continues to enable talented individuals, both male and female, to enjoy career progression within Dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 80 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 80 12 10 2016 09:56:54 Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out in Executives below Board the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 29.
The The Committee has for some years had both formal and Committee is pleased that there is a good level of gender informal oversight of the Executive team below Board.
Dunelm diversity at Board, Executive Board and senior management Board members have regular contact with these Executives, level 22%, 40% and 33% respectively.
both through formal Board presentations and in regular store visits, where a Non-Executive Director meets a member of the Tenure and Re-election of Directors Executive Board on a less formal basis.
This year the Board also In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, received a Talent Management presentation from the People all Directors will seek re-election at the 2016 AGM, and as Director, which will become part of the Boards rolling agenda now required by the Listing Rules the Non-Executives will be going forward.
As part of the development of the Senior subject to an additional vote by shareholders independent of Management Team, we have implemented a programme of the Adderley family.
presentations by Non-Executive Directors to this group of 40 Marion Sears and Simon Emeny have served eleven and nine or so senior managers, to share their leadership experience.
years on the Board respectively.
Marion is now considered by Although these activities are not formally conducted as part the Board to be non-independent in view of her tenure.
As of the work of the Nominations Committee, we see this as a noted in last years report, we have asked Simon to stay for an useful way of preserving our culture and an important aspect extra year at the end of his nine year term to provide continuity of our oversight of the Executive team development and during the recent period of change: it is expected that he succession process.
will retire at the 2017 AGM following the appointment of a Approved by the Board of Dunelm Group plc on 14 September successor.
I am mid-way through my first three year term, and 2016 and signed on its behalf by Liz Doherty is now in the fourth year since appointment, with both William Reeve and Peter Ruis in their first term.
Andy Harrison Chair of the Nominations Committee Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 81 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
