Corporate governance report Board Committees The Committee reports that follow set out, amongst other SAFETY COMMITTEE things, the responsibilities and activities of the Committees in the past financial year.
The terms of reference of each Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
com The Chair of each Board Committee formally reports back to the Board.
Details of Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings are set out on page 56.
DR. ANDREAS BIERWIRTH Chair of the Safety Committee Safety Committee I took over from Chris Browne as Chair of the Safety Chair: Dr. AndreasBierwirth Committee on 1 October 2016.
In line with easyJets position from 1 October 2016 See pages 48 to 49 that safety is our number one priority, the Safety Committee will continue to ensure that safetyreceives the highest level of Board attention.
Remuneration Committee Membership as at 14 November 2016 Chair: Charles Gurassa See pages 49 to 50 all current membersare independent Non-Executive Directors Audit Committee Dr. Andreas Bierwirth appointed as Chaireffective from Chair: Adle Anderson See pages 50 to 53 1October 2016 Adle Anderson appointed to the Committee effective from 1 October 2016 Nominations Committee Keith Hamill Chair: John Barton See page 54 Committee changes Although Professor Rigas Doganis stepped down from the Board of easyJet as a Non-Executive Director on 1 December Finance Committee 2014, he remained as Chairman of the Safety Committee Chair: Andy Martin See page 55 until 29 February 2016.
Chris Browne became a member ofthe Committee on her appointment to the Board on1January 2016 andwas appointed as Chair from IT Governance and 1March2016.
She stepped down from the Committee on Oversight Committee 30September 2016 at the same time she stepped down Chair: Andy Martin See page 55 from the Board to join the easyJet Executive ManagementTeam.
She was considered an independent Non-Executive Director at the Safety Committee meetings she attended during the 2016 financial year.
Adle Anderson joined the Committee effective from 1 October 2016.
Turn to page 56 for meeting attendance table 48 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Key responsibilities REMUNERATION COMMITTEE To monitor and follow up on safety incidents reported tothe Board to ensure that they have been satisfactorily closed either byeasyJet and or the relevant externalparties.
To receive, examine and monitor reports on actions taken by departments.
To review and monitor the implementation of easyJets annual safety plan.
The Committee also examines specific safety issues as requested by the Board or any member of the Committee.
Where appropriate, the Committee reviews relevant reports published by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch, major incidents that have affected other operators, as well as other external reports on matters relevant to safety and security.
CHARLES GURASSA Independent safety reports from the Director of Safety and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Security are presented at every Board meeting.
The Committee ensures that both internal and relevant external events are fully The remuneration policy has been designed to be investigated and that appropriate actions have been taken straightforward and transparent, in alignment with the where necessary.
Companys principle of having a simple and costeffective approach.
The Director of Safety and Security has a direct reporting line tothe Chairman which reinforces the independence of safety Membership as at 14 November 2016 oversight.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has all current members are independent reported to the Board withtheir own assessment of safety Non-Executive Directors management within the airline throughout the year.
Charles Gurassa Chair Highlights of the 2016 financial year Adle Anderson appointed to the Committee effective A range of safety-related matters have been reviewed by the from 1 January 2016 Committee during the 2016 financial year involving all areas Andy Martin appointed to the Committee effective from flight operations, cabin crew, ground services and engineering.
1October 2016 Some of these reviews followed requests from the Board to Franois Rubichon carry out detailed assessments of specific operational incidents: others were reports of safety actions taken by easyJet Committee changes John Browett stepped down from the Board and the operational departments, and investigations by national investigation authorities.
These included a review of the Remuneration Committee on 31 December 2015.
Adle Anderson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee implementation of recommended measures following the Germanwings incident, security reports on Brussels, France and inhis place.
Chris Browne was also a member of the Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 January other relevant regions affected during the year by acts of terrorism, and reports on the actions of easyJets Disruptive 2016.
Once it became apparent that Chris would be joining the Executive Management Team, the Board determined Passenger Action Group.
In 2015 the Director of Safety and Security was tasked by the Board to undertake a review of that she was no longer independent as required as a Committee member under the Remuneration Committee fatigue within crew, independent of all the operational departments.
The Safety Committee monitored the progress of terms of reference.
She therefore stepped down from the Remuneration Committee in September ahead of the the fatigue review and reviewed its findings.
The Committee will continue to oversee the implementation of Remuneration Committees last meeting of the 2016 financial year.
Andy Martin joined the Committee effective from the recommendations.
Turn to page 56 for meeting attendance table www.
com 49 Corporate governance report continued Key responsibilities AUDIT COMMITTEE To assess and make recommendations to the Board on the policies for remuneration for each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, as well as the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Highlights of the 2016 financial year The Committee: reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors and senior management: assessed the level of performance against the 2015 financial year bonus measures and determined the level of award for the Executive Directors and senior management: determined the bonus targets for the 2016 financial year: measured achievement against the LTIP performance ADLE ANDERSON measures that were set in December 2012and agreed Chair of the Audit Committee thevesting percentage in December2015: considered external reward market, corporate governance During the year, the Audit Committees focus has, as in activity and shareholder feedback and assessed the previous years, centred on the integrity of the Groups implications for easyJet executives: financial reporting, system of risk management, internal agreed the performance targets for the Long Term Incentive controls, and the effectiveness of both internal and external Plan for the 2016 financial year: audit.
The Committee has continued to follow a detailed reviewed and approved the PLC Board Expenses Policy: and programme of work and to respond to the increasing depth considered and debated gender pay and future of review and reporting that is now required of .
The full Directors remuneration report is on pages 60 to 75.
Membership as at 14 November 2016 Additional disclosures under the UK Corporate all current membersare independent Governance Code Non-Executive Directors For additional disclosures under the UK Corporate Governance Adle Anderson Chair Code in relation to the Remuneration Committees work and Keith Hamill remuneration consultants, please refer to the Directors Andy Martin Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 75.
The Committee members have been selected to provide the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and responsibilities.
Adle Anderson was a partner in KPMG until July 2011 and held roles including Chief Financial Officer of KPMG UK, Chief Executive Officer of KPMGs captive insurer and Chief Financial Officer of KPMG Europe.
She currently chairs the audit committees of Intu Properties plc and Spire Healthcare plc.
Keith Hamill has had considerable experience as a Director of listed companies and was Finance Director of WH Smith, Forte plc and United Distillers.
Andy Martin was Group Finance Director of Compass Group plc between 2004 and 2012, and prior to this held other senior financial positions with First Choice Holidays plc now TUI Group, Forte plc and Granada Group plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee member of Intertek Group plc.
The Board considers the Committee members financial experience to be recent and relevant for the purposes of theCode.
Further, in accordance with the 2016 Corporate Governance Code applying to the Company from its 2017 financial year the Board has determined that the current composition of the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
All the Committee members have had a significant amount of sector experience as Non-Executive Directors of easyJet for a number of years, and in addition Andy Martin has had executive sector experience in his previous role at First Choice Holidays plc.
All three committee members are qualified accountants.
50 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Committee changes Chris Browne was also a member of the Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 January 2016.
She stepped down from the Committee on 30 September 2016 at the same time she stepped down from the Board to join the easyJet Executive Management Team.
She was considered an independent Non-Executive Director at the Audit Committee meetings she attended during the 2016 financial year.
Turn to page 56 for meeting attendance table Main activities and responsibilities of the Committee Please refer to the Audit Committee terms of reference for further details on the Committees duties and responsibilities, available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities Review of the financial statements and announcements To monitor and review: relating to the financial performance and governance of the the integrity of the financial statements and related formal Group at year end and half year.
announcements, and the significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain The Committee also considered the material areas in which significant judgements were applied based on reports from both the Groups management and the external auditors.
Further information is provided in the Financial reporting and significant financial issues section.
the Companys risk management systems and internal control Review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups ongoing risk management systems and control processes, through an evaluation of: the risk and assurance plans: Internal Audit reports: risk assessments: information security and business continuity: control themes: and internal financial control assessments.
the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit function The Committee undertook an assessment of the and its activities effectiveness and independence of the Internal Audit function, which included consideration of: key Internal Audit reports: stakeholder feedback on the quality of Internal Auditactivity: Internal Audits compliance with prevailing professional standards: and the implementation of Internal Audit recommendations.
The Committee will also be reviewing the external quality assessment of the Internal Audit function to be undertaken later this year for reporting to the Audit Committee in February next year.
Further information is provided in the Internal Audit section.
the Companys relationship with the external auditors, The Committee considered the appointment of the external including: auditors, confirming and assessing their independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
The Committee welcomed their independence and objectivity: anew senior statutory auditor for the 2016 financial year, the effectiveness of the external audit process: andthe Committee Chair was involved in selecting and recommending the appointment, reappointment or interviewing the new partner.
removal of the external auditors: approving their remuneration and terms of engagement: Further information on: and how the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the policy on the supply of non-audit services.
the external audit process were assessed, is provided in the External auditors and effectiveness of external audit process section: and the external auditors non-audit services, and audit tendering, is provided in the Nonaudit services and the Audit tendering sections respectively.
com 51 Corporate governance report continued Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities the adequacy and security of the Groups arrangements During the year, the Committee reviewed: foritsemployees and contractors to raise concerns, in whistleblower reports and the refresh and re-launch of confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial thewhistleblowing processes: reportingor other matters reports on anti-bribery and corruption procedures: the Groups systems and controls for the prevention of bribery reports on procedures on fraud and loss prevention: and and detection of fraud, including receiving reports on reports on credit card fraud monitoring and investigations.
non-compliance Other duties of the Audit Committee include: The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and made some changes in line with best practice.
annually reviewing its terms of reference: assessing potential conflicts of interest of Directors on A couple of potential conflictswere considered and assessed behalf of the Board: and during the year.
The Committee determined that these were as requested by the Board, providing advice on whether potential transactional conflicts of interest which were yet theAnnual report and accounts are fair, balanced and toarise.
Further information on the Committees role on providing advice on whether the annual report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable is provided in the Financial reporting and significant financial issues section.
Specific items which the Committee looked at during the management which underpin the basis of assumptions financial year as part of and in addition to its main activities used.
The Committee also discussed with the external include the review of: auditors their review of the assumptions underlying the estimates used.
the treasury function and accounting treatment of hedging The Committee considered whether the carrying value transactions: ofgoodwill and landing rights held by easyJet should be the accounting treatment for property, plant and equipment impaired.
The judgement in relation to impairment largely and intangible assets: relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the the accounting treatment of the maintenance provision: value in use of the business being tested for impairment: the process for cash flow forecasting: primarily whether the forecasted cashflows areachievable the Groups business continuity planning: and the overall macroeconomic assumptions which underlie the Group's depreciation policy and aircraft residual values: the valuation process.
The Committee addressed these the Groups information security programme, including matters using reports received from management outlining capabilities, policies and procedures, and the PCI the basis for assumptions used.
Theforecasted cashflows programme dealing with payment card data: and used in the calculation were presented to theBoard.
the support for making a viability statement.
The Committee considered the key treasury transactions, and the application of hedge accounting.
easyJet hedges Financial reporting and significant forward, on a rolling basis, between 65% and 85% of the financial judgements next 12 months anticipated fuel and currency requirements The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies and between 45% and 65% of the next 12 months have been adopted and whether management has made anticipated requirements.
Significant exposure relating to appropriate estimates and judgements.
For example, during the acquisition cost of aircraft is also managed through the thefinancial year, the Committee reviewed the level of use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts where provisions and accruals recorded which are judgemental in 90% of the next two years forecast requirement is hedged.
The Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared easyJet does not operate any other significant derivative by management which provide details on significant financial financial instruments.
However, this area remains significant reporting judgements.
The Committee also reviewed reports by due to the quantity of fuel and exchange rate hedges.
the external auditors on the full year and half year results which The Committee reviewed the level and calculations of key highlight any issues with respect to the work undertaken on accruals and provisions which are judgemental in nature.
Specifically the area of customer claims in respect of flight The Committee reviewed financial issues through discussion delays, cancellations and Air Passenger Duty.
with management and the external auditors and comparison The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by toother organisations.
The number of such issues currently management are reasonable, and that appropriate disclosures considered as significant are, however, limited given easyJets have been included in the accounts.
relatively simple business model and group structure which are unencumbered with legacy issues.
The significant issues At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered considered in relation to the accounts are detailed below: whether the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary The Committee reviewed the maintenance provision at the year end.
A number of judgements are used in the information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is calculation of the provision, primarily pricing, utilisation of aircraft and timing of maintenance checks.
The Committee satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
In reaching this addressed these matters using reports received from 52 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts conclusion, the Committee considered the overall review and External auditors and effectiveness of external confirmation process around the Annual report and audit process accounts, including:  LLP were reappointed auditors of theCompany at the 2016 Annual General Meeting following the input of subject matter experts, the Executive atender process undertaken in 2015.
Senior management Management Team and other senior management and, monitors the auditors performance, behaviour and where applicable, the Board and its Committees: effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs the processes and controls which underpin the overall the Audit Committees decision to recommend reappointment review and confirmation process, including the verification on an annual basis.
process being carried out by an internal financial controls specialist independent of the Finance function : and The Audit Committee also assesses the effectiveness, Internal Audit providing assurance over the audit trail for independence and objectivity of the external auditors by, material data points relating to the non-financial statement amongst other things: aspects of the Annual report and accounts, and external considering all key external auditor plans and reports: audit providing assurance over the accounts.
having regular engagement with the external auditor during The Committee was provided with, and commented on, a draft Committee meetings and ad hoc meetings when required, copy of the Annual report and accounts.
including meetings without any member of management being present: In carrying out the above processes, key considerations the Committee Chair having discussions with the Senior included ensuring that there was consistency between the Statutory Auditor ahead of each Committee meeting: and accounts and the narrative provided in the front half of the following the end of the financial year, each annual report, and that there was an appropriate balance Committeemember completing an auditor effectiveness between the reporting of weaknesses, difficulties and review questionnaire.
challenges, as well as successes, in an open and honest manner.
Nonaudit services In order to preserve objectivity and independence, the external Risk management and internal control auditors are not asked to provide consulting services unless this The Board, as a whole, including the Audit Committee is in the best interests of the Company, in accordance with members, consider the nature and extent of easyJets risk easyJets non-audit services policy which is available in the management framework and the risk profile that is acceptable governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: in order to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
Audit Committee has reviewed the work done by management, the Committee itself and the Board on the assessment of the In the 2016 financial year,  LLP did Companys principal risks, including their impact on the provide services in addition to its usual audit work by providing prospects of the Company.
As a result, it is considered that the a comfort letter in relation to the Companys setting up of Board has fulfilled its obligations under the Code in relation to aEuro Medium Term Note EMTN Programme.
It was risk management and internal controls.
Further details on the determined that the nature of the work would not undermine Companys principal risks and uncertainties and their impact on auditor objectivity and independence.
This additional scope of the prospects of the Company are set out on pages 24 to 31. work was in line with the Companys non-audit service policy, which allows an external auditor to undertake as an auditor, easyJets system of internal controls, along with its design and work in connection with debt capital raising.
The fees relating to operating effectiveness, is subject to review by the Audit this additional work were 38,000 but were not considered to Committee, through reports received from management, along be non-audit services.
Therefore, in the 2016 financial year the with those from both internal and external auditors.
Any control Company incurred no non-statutory audit fees 2015: nil.
deficiencies identified are followed up with action plans tracked by the Committee.
Further details of risk management and Audit tendering internal control are set out on page 59.
 LLP were first appointed to audit the Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 September Internal Audit 2006, and have therefore served a 10 year term.
Under EU The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of audit reform legislation, companies are required to have a the Internal Audit function.
It reviews and approves the scope mandatory rotation of auditors after 10 years, or 20 years if of the Internal Audit annual plan and assesses the quality of there is a compulsory retender at 10 years.
During the 2015 Internal Audit reports, along with managements actions relating financial year, the Committee led a tender process for external to findings and the closure of recommended actions.
The Audit audit services, following which the Audit Committee agreed to Committee also considers stakeholder feedback on the quality recommend that the Board reappoint  of Internal Audits work.
Further information on the Internal LLP as, on balance, they performed better than the Audit function is provided on page 59.
In order to safeguard Committee's pre-agreed selection and assessment criteria.
theindependence of the Internal Audit functions, the Head ofInternal Audit is given the opportunity to meet privately withtheAudit Committee without any other members of management present.
com 53 Corporate governance report continued NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Highlights of the 2016 financial year Together with an external consultant, leading the calibration of the capability and skills of the current Board against the future requirements in terms of size, structure, composition and behaviours: Consideration of the appointments to the Board Committees following the change in Board composition: and Reviewing managements succession plans for senior executive positions.
Board appointments process The Committee adopts a formal and transparent procedure forthe appointment of new Directors to the Board.
With the JOHN BARTON exception of Chris Brownes recruitment as disclosed in last Chair of the Nominations Committee years Annual report, there were no searches for Board Directors during the 2016 financial year.
Following the This year the Committee focusedon leading a review of the Committees review of the skills, knowledge, experience and composition of the Board and succession planning both at diversity on the Board, the Committee is recommending to the Board and Executive Management Team level, and reviewing Board the recruitment of at least one additional Non-Executive the make-up of the Board Committees given the changes to Director during the 2017 financial year.
Should the Board seek the Board during the year.
to recruit any additional Directors during the course of next year, its practice is to use external search consultants.
Membership as at 14 November 2016 members are independent Non-Executive Directors and the Diversity Non-Executive Chairman of the Board The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity across allareas of the Group and believes that this supports easyJets John Barton Chair continued success and advantage.
When considering the Charles Gurassa optimum make-up of the Board, the benefits of diversity of the Keith Hamill appointed from 1 October 2016 Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced where possible, Andy Martin appointed from 1 October 2016 including in terms of differences in skills, industry experience, Franois Rubichon business model experiences, gender, race, disability, age, Committee changes nationality, background and other contributions that individuals To ensure that the important subject matter of the may make.
The Committee continues to encourage diversity of Committee's remit is discussed with a wide number of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with Non-Executive Directors, Andy Martin and Keith Hamill joined varying skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from the Committee effective from 1 October 2016. different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the Board.
In identifying suitable candidates the Committee will Turn to page 56 seek candidates from a range of backgrounds, with the final for meeting attendance table decision being based on merit against objective criteria.
As at 14 November 2016, theCompany has two female Key responsibilities Directors, one being the Chief Executive.
The Board has a Keeping under review the composition, structure and size 22%female representation.
The Company had three female of, and succession to, the Board and its Committees: Directors between 1 January 2016 and 30 September 2016, Succession planning for senior executives and the Board: untilChris Browne stepped down from the Board.
easyJets Leading the process for Board appointments by identifying policy on diversity applies across all levels ofthe organisation, and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates and further details can be found in the Corporate responsibility to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: and section on pages 38 to 39, including further details of the Evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience Executive Management Team.
As at 14 November 2016, the and diversity on the Board.
number of women on the Executive Management Team had increased from last year to five out of nine positions such that women now make up the majority of that team.
54 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts FINANCE COMMITTEE IT GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE ANDY MARTIN ANDY MARTIN Chair of the Finance Committee Chair of the IT Governance and Oversight Committee The Finance Committee continues to provide effective The IT Governance and Oversight Committee provides oversight of the Groups treasury and funding policies and governance oversight, and gives independent validation and activities, ensuring that activities undertaken will not subject challenge, to one of the Companys key business areas.
the Group to undesired levels of risk, and that treasury Membership as at 14 November 2016 activities are appropriately aligned with Group strategy and all members are independent Non-Executive Directors support the Group financial performance.
Andy Martin Chair, appointed to the Committee Membership as at 14 November 2016 effective from 1 January 2016 all members are independent Non-Executive Directors Adle Anderson Andy Martin Chair effective from 1 December 2015 Keith Hamill Dr. Andreas Bierwirth appointed to the Committee Committee changes effective from 1 December 2015 John Browett stepped down from the Board and the IT Charles Gurassa Governance and Oversight Committee as Chair and Committee changes member on 31 December 2015.
Andy Martin was appointed Adle Anderson stepped down from the Committee as Chair to the Committee and became Chair on 1 January 2016. and Committee member effective from 30 November 2015.
Turn to page 56 Andy Martin took over as Chair from 1 December 2015 and for meeting attendance table Dr. Andreas Bierwirth was appointed to the Committee on 1 December 2015.
Key responsibilities Turn to page 56 To provide independent oversight over the governance and for meeting attendance table controls relating to the IT business area, in particular covering the required resilience and change.
Specifically the Committee: Key responsibilities monitors the strategic direction of the IT programme to To review and monitor the Groups treasury policies, treasury ensure it supports easyJets long-term goals within the operations and funding activities, along with associated risks.
ambit of its strategic framework: Highlights of the 2016 financial year reviews the risks and controls associated with IT strategy The Committee: toensure appropriate mitigation is built into the implementation process: supported the Board in publishing credit ratings from monitors implementation of the IT strategy and ensures that Moody's and Standard & Poor's and oversaw the setting changing business needs are being met in the context of the upof a Euro Medium Term Note Programme under which Companys strategic goals and competitive position: and Eurobonds were issued: provides financial oversight over the IT programmes as the reviewedthe capital structure of the business, specifically in Committee considers necessary, including ensuring an relation to theliquidity buffer maintained by the airline and appropriate framework within which budgetary decisions the management of the aircraft residual values: are made.
reviewed hedge accounting on cross-currency interest rate swaps: and Highlights of the 2016 financial year reviewedthe Companys treasury policy.
The Committee has: approved the business case for a new e-commerce platform and overseen the programme during its designphase: reviewed and  assurance reports from consultants relating to certain IT programmes: and reviewed the capabilities and resourcing required to deliver the IT programmes.
com 55 Corporate governance report continued encouraged to communicate directly with senior management COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE between Board meetings.
GOVERNANCE CODE The Company has, throughout the 2016 financial year, A.
2 Division of responsibilities compliedwithout exception with the provisions of the UK The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, set out Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2014 the in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
They are Code, which is the version of the Code which applies to its available on easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
The section below details how the Company easyJet.
The Chairmans role is to lead the Board and has complied with the Code, available at www.
The ensure that it operates effectively.
The Chief Executives role following disclosures are ordered into the sections as they isthe day-to-day running of the Groups businesses and the appear in the Code.
development and implementation of strategy.
1 Role of the Board The Chairman, John Barton, sets the Boards agenda and The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all tothe airline.
It does this by setting strategic priorities and agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
On his appointment overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable in May 2013, the Board considered John Barton to be long-term growth, while maintaining a balanced approach independent in character and judgement in accordance with torisk within a framework of effective controls.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its A.
4 NonExecutive Directors decision which is available in the governance section of Charles Gurassa is Senior Independent Director and Deputy easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
In this role, Charles provides advice and additional Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the Executive support and experience to the Chairman as required, and is Management Team, listed on pages 46 to 47.
These individuals available to act as an intermediary for the other Directors if are also the Directors and Company Secretary of the principal necessary.
Charles is also available to address shareholders operating company, easyJet Airline Company Limited.
concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive The Board meets regularly, with nine scheduled meetings or other Executive Director, and leads the appraisal of the having been held during the year.
The Directors attendance Chairmans performance annually in consultation with the other records at those meetings and Board Committee meetings Non-Executive Directors in a meeting without the Chairman held during the year are shown in the table below.
The Non-Executive Directors, together with tothose scheduled meetings, two ad hoc Board meetings were theChairman, have also met without any Executive Directors also arranged to deal with matters arising between scheduled present during the year.
During the year, there were no meetings as appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors are also unresolved concerns regarding the running of the Company.
Attendance at scheduled meetings during 2016 financial year For further information regarding when Board members joined or stepped down from Committees during and after the 2016 financial year, please refer to the Committee changes sections in the relevant Committee reports pages 48 to 55.
IT Governance Audit Remuneration Finance Safety Nominations and Oversight Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of scheduled meetings 9 4 3 4 4 3 2 Executive Directors Carolyn McCall DBE 9 9 2 2 2 2 Andrew Findlay 9 9 4 2 4 1 NonExecutive Directors John Barton 9 9 3 3 1 4 3 3 1 Charles Gurassa 9 9 3 3 4 4 3 3 2 Adle Anderson 8 9 4 4 2 2 1 1 2 2 Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 9 9 3 3 4 4 3 John Browett 1 2 1 1 1 1 4 Chris Browne 7 7 3 3 1 1 3 3 Keith Hamill OBE 9 9 4 4 4 4 2 2 Andy Martin 9 9 4 4 1 4 4 1 1 Franois Rubichon 9 9 3 3 3 3 Not a member of the relevant Committee attendance at meeting by invitation.
1 Professor Rigas Doganis, who was not a member of the Board however was independent Chair of the Safety Committee, attended two meetings at which he was Chair until he was succeeded by Chris Browne as Chair on 1 March 2016.
2 Adle Anderson missed a brief Board meeting held by conference call due to having problems dialling in on the day from overseas.
3 John Browett stepped down as Director on31 December 2015.
4 Chris Browne joined the Board on1 January 2016 and stepped down as Director on 30 September 2016.
56 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts the business of the Group: B.
Effectiveness their legal and regulatory responsibilities as Directors: B.
1 Composition of the Board briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and As at 30 September 2016, the Board comprised eight Nonopportunities to visit and experience easyJets Executive Directors including the Chairman and two Executive businessoperations.
Following the stepping down of Chris Browne on 30 September 2016, as at 14 November 2016, the Board comprises To update the Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity seven Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and withthe Group, visits to bases are organised for the Board two Executive Directors.
periodically, to assist its understanding of the operational issues that the business faces.
The Board was invited to visit the base After giving thorough consideration to the matter, the Board in Geneva in June 2016 and to attend a Country Review Board considers Adle Anderson, Dr. Andreas Bierwirth, Charles there, as well as an airside tour of airport operations and the Gurassa, Keith Hamill, Andy Martin and Franois Rubichon to crew room, and meetings with Swiss management and the beNon-Executive Directors who are independent in character CEO of Geneva Airport.
A briefing paper is provided to Board and judgement.
Chris Browne was considered independent on members to update them on relevant developments in law, her appointment to the Board up until the Boards September regulation and best practice, usually two to four times per year.
meeting when it was noted that as she was close to concluding Directors are encouraged to highlight specific areas where they an agreement for the Chief Operating Officer role on the feel their skills or knowledge would benefit from development easyJet Executive Management Team, she should no longer as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
An example of beviewed as independent.
training undertaken this year was the session held for all the B.
2 Appointments to the Board Directors by the Company's corporate lawyers on the new EU The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board Market Abuse Regulation which came into force in July 2016. appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
5 Information and support information on the work of the Nominations Committee and a All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, clear description of the Boards policy on diversity, please refer to the and accurate information in a timely manner covering matters Nominations Committee report on page 54. which are to be considered at forthcoming Board or B.
Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further below, Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent legal the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to advice about the performance of their duties with the allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their Company, they are entitled to do so at the Companys expense.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
The on all governance matters and ensuring that Board procedures standard terms and conditions of the appointment of Nonare complied with.
Executive Directors are also available in the governance section The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
Executive Directors are encouraged to take up non-executive B.
6 Evaluation positions in other companies or organisations.
Carolyn McCall A performance review of the Board, its Committees and DBE, the Chief Executive, has acted as Non-Executive Director Directors is carried out every year and is externally facilitated at at Burberry Group plc since September 2014.
Appointment to least every third year.
Following the evaluation being externally such positions is subject to the approval of the Board which facilitated last year by Independent Audit Limited, the 2016 considers, amongst other things, the time commitment Board and Committee evaluation was conducted internally by required.
The Executive Management Team are permitted to the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel, Kyla hold one appointment on a Board or Committee of a listed Mullins, at the request of the Chairman.
Kyla prepared surveys company so long as this is not thought to interfere with the that were completed by Board members.
In addition, business of the Group.
Calibroconsult Limited, an external consultant engaged by the Pursuant to B3.1 of the Corporate Governance Code, Nominations Committee to advise on Board succession JohnBarton was appointed as director of Luceco plc on planning and composition, undertook a series of in-depth, 27September 2016, which subsequently became a publicly confidential working sessions with each member of the Board quotedcompany on 17 October 2016.
Despite this change to individually to understand, amongst other things, current key the Chairmans commitments outside of easyJet, the Board is challenges for the Board and Executive Management Team.
satisfied that there has been no impact to the Chairmans This was considered as part of the 2016 Board and Committee commitment to the Company and he still continues to devote evaluation and fed back to the Chairman and the Company more than sufficient time to his duties as Chairman, as Secretary and Group General Counsel who discussed the evidenced by his high attendance at committees at which he outcomes and recommendations.
Following discussion with the isnot a committee member on page 56.
The Executive Board as a whole, areas identified for improvement were agreed Directors and Non-Executive Directors reviewed, and were by the Board.
Calibroconsult Limited has no connection with satisfied with, the Chairmans time commitment to the Board as the Company beyond evaluating the Board.
The review extended to all aspects of Board and Committee B.
4 Development performance including composition and dynamics which On joining the Board, new members receive a tailored induction, complementthe work undertaken by Calibroconsult Limited, organised by the Company Secretary, which covers amongst the Chairmans leadership, agenda and focus, time other things: www.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued management, strategic oversight, oversight of risk and D. Remuneration succession planning, and priorities for change.
For further information on the Companys compliance with theCode provisions relating to remuneration, please refer to: Charles Gurassa, as Senior Independent Director, led a review ofthe Chairmans performance and held a private meeting of the Directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 75 for the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to the leveland components of remuneration D. 1 : and discuss the Chairmans performance it was concluded that pages 49 to 50 the Remuneration Committee Report John Barton's performance and contribution are strong and forthe procedure relating to remuneration D. 2. that he demonstrates effective leadership.
The Executive E. Relations with shareholders Directors and the Non-Executive Directors also reviewed and E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders were satisfied with the Chairmans time commitment to the The Company actively engages with investors and solicits Board and the business.
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman met with The Chairman conducted a process of evaluating the shareholders during the course of the year to help maintain performance and contribution of each Director which included abalanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
They a one-to-one performance evaluation and feedback discussion also attended a senior investor dinner in January and met with with each of them.
the Company's top 10 institutional investors.
The Chairman has updated the Board on the opinions of investors.
7 Reelection shareholders and market perceptions are also regularly The Companys Articles of Association require the Directors to communicated to the Board via verbal briefings.
submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
However, the Board has decided that all easyJet has an investor relations department which runs an Directors will stand for re-election or election at each Annual active programme to facilitate engagement with investors General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
based around the financial reporting calendar.
This year theprogramme has included one-to-one meetings with C. Accountability , road shows and conferences.
There C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting isalso regularcommunication with institutional investors Please refer to: onkeybusiness issues.
page 79 for the Boards statement on the Annual report During the course of the year the Chairman, Deputy andaccounts being fair, balanced and understandable: Chairmanand Chief Executivemet withrepresentatives page 22 for the statement on the status of the Company ofeasyGroup Holdings Limited, the Companys largest and the Group as a going concern: and shareholder, to discuss relevant matters.
The Chief Financial the Strategic report on pages 4 to 15 for an explanation Officer has also met separately with representatives ofthe Companys business model and the strategy for ofeasyGroup Ltd an affiliate of easyGroup Holdings Limited delivering the objectives of the Company.
to discuss matters relating to the management and protection C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control of the easyJet and easy brands.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting risks facing the Company and how those risks affect the The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the prospects of the Company.
Please refer to pages 24 to 31 opportunity to communicate directly with the Board and forfurther information on the Companys principal risks and encourages their participation.
Shareholders are given the uncertainties and page 22 for their impact on the prospects opportunity to raise issues formally at the Annual General ofthe Company.
Meeting or informally with Directors after the meeting.
All The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and the control and for reviewing their effectiveness rests with the Chairs of the Committees are available to answer questions at Board.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the the Annual General Meeting.
effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the year, under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
Further information on the Companys risk management and internal control systems is given on page 59.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and auditors, please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 50 to 53.
58 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts The internal control regime is supported by the operation of RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL awhistleblower reporting function.
The system is operated by The Board has overall responsibility for easyJets risk aspecialist external third-party service provider and allows management and systems of internal control.
employees to report concerns anonymously and in confidence.
Risk management The Audit Committee has approved the processes and easyJet has an established risk management process to ensure reporting structure for the function, and receives regular that significant risks are identified and mitigated where possible.
For further details of the risk management process, the principal Internal Audit risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the associated The Internal Audit functions key objectives are to provide mitigating actions, please refer to pages 24 to 31. independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to To ensure that risks are managed effectively, a number of the Board, Audit Committee and senior management, and to activities are undertaken: assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities.
Its work is based on a risk-based an Executive Management Team member is allocated as audit plan, which is approved by the Audit Committee on the risk owner for each principal risk, with responsibility for behalfof the Board, and updated on a rolling basis.
the day-to-day management of those risks: ongoing risk management and assurance is provided Internal Audit reviews the extent to which systems of through the various monitoring reviews and reporting internal control: mechanisms that are embedded into the business are designed and operating effectively: operations.
The results of these reviews are reported to the are adequate to manage easyJets key risks: and Audit Committee and the Board, which considers whether safeguard the Groups assets.
these high level risks are being effectively controlled: regular operational including safety, commercial, financial The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Head of Risk and Tax and IT functional meetings are held to review performance and has direct access to the Chief Executive and the Chairman and to consider key risks and issues please refer to pages of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit is invited to, 48 to 49 for details of the Safety Committee : and attends, Audit Committee meetings throughout the year the Executive Management Team meets regularly to and reports regularly on Internal Audit reviews to the Executive consider significant risks, status of risk mitigations and Management Team.
overall business performance: this ensures key issues are escalated through the management team, and, as During the year, the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function appropriate, ultimately to the Board: and was assessed by the Audit Committee.
The role of the Internal the Directors review the effectiveness of internal controls, Audit function and the scope of its work both continue to including operating, financial and compliance controls.
evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
A formal audit charter is in place.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the appropriateness of the risk management processes to ensure that they are sufficiently robust to meet the needs of the Group please refer to pages 50 to 53 for details of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
Internal control The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
The internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
By their nature, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the year, under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
This included reviews of systems and controls relating to financial reporting processes and the preparation of the accounts.
The internal financial control monitoring programme, administered by Internal Audit, has continued to enhance the review process.
