18 THE COMPANYS GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board and Committees Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources investment management to the Manager and administration to the Manager and other external service providers.
The Board Chairman Jim Pettigrew Senior Independent Director Sir Nigel Wicks Four additional non-executive directors NEDs Key responsibilities: to set strategy, values and standards: to provide leadership within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Remuneration Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Function All NEDs excluding All NEDs All NEDs The Board as a whole Jim Pettigrew performs this function Chairman Chairman Chairman Gordon McQueen Jim Pettigrew Jim Pettigrew Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: to review regularly to oversee the to review regularly to set the the management control the Boards remuneration contract and the environment and structure and policy of the performance of financial reporting: composition and Company.
performance: and to make to make recommendation recommendations for the for any changes or appointment of new the auditor: and appointments.
to review the performance of other service providers, including the auditor.
The Portfolio Manager The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, is based in Henley-on-Thames.
Mark is Head of UK Equities at Invesco Perpetual, specialising in UK equity income investing.
Mark started his investment career in 1992 at Mercury Asset Management joined Perpetual in 1996.
He graduated in French and Politics from Reading University in 1992 and has passed the associate examinations of the Association for Investment Management and Research AIMR.
