Corporate Governance Report The Boards role in such a period of change has been particularly important with robust corporate governance supporting the transition.
Peter Johnson Chairman We have also carried out an internal Board evaluation and have Dear fellow shareholder agreed to carry out an external evaluation next year.
The results and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate recommendations of this years evaluation are discussed in detail later governance reports for 2016. in this report, as well as progress made on last years evaluation.
The Company and the Group are committed to high standards As part of our PIP, the Remuneration Committee Chairman has of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the consulted with shareholders on a new incentive framework.
Further Companys shareholders and actively engages in two-way details of this can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report communication with them.
During the year we held numerous faceon pages 51 and 52.
As a consequence, an updated remuneration to-face meetings and invited shareholders to presentations on both policy will be proposed to shareholders at our Annual General the Groups financial results and elements of its strategy.
I also had Meeting AGM in July.
Peter Johnson As a UK-listed company, we are required to explain how we have Chairman applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance 19 May 2016 Code Code and whether the relevant provisions have been complied with throughout the financial year.
This report explains how we have applied the Code during the year and confirms our compliance.
This year the business has gone through a very significant period of change, with our new Chief Executive Officer CEO reviewing the business and creating his new leadership team, announcing his new Performance Improvement Plan PIP in November and appointing our new Group Finance Director.
The Boards role in such a period of change has been particularly important, with robust corporate governance supporting the transition.
Further details can be found in the Strategic Report on page 4 and in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 48 and 49.
38 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance The sections within this Directors Report explain how the Main UK Corporate Governance Code Principles of the Code have been applied.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Company has been subject to the provisions of the Code published in September The information required by the Code on Directors Accountability, 2014.
The Code is publicly available at www.
There are our process for the appointment of Directors including our five main sections of the Code covering: approach to diversity and our report on Directors remuneration, can be found in the following sections: Leadership Audit Committee Report on page 43 Effectiveness Nomination Committee Report on page 48 Relations with shareholders Directors Remuneration Report on page 50 Accountability Remuneration During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Directors consider that the Company complied throughout the accounting period with all the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The Board Role, effectiveness and composition The review and approval of Group tax strategy The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term Ensuring and maintaining the Groups systems of risk success of the Company.
The Board has carefully considered the management, internal control and corporate governance guidance criteria regarding the composition of the Board under Reviewing health and safety policy and its effectiveness the Code.
In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and all the Discussing and agreeing strategic plans Non-Executive Directors bring independence of judgement and character, a wealth of experience and knowledge, the appropriate On the advice of the Nomination Committee, reviewing balance of skills, and assign sufficient time to enable them to succession plans for the Board and senior management effectively carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and reviewing and to the committees on which they sit.
They are sufficiently forecasts independent of management and are free from any other The Board is fully committed to diversity of gender, race and circumstances or relationships that could interfere with the exercise nationality and ensures it considers candidates from all such of their judgement.
backgrounds when appointing new Board members.
Further Biographical details of the Directors standing for election details of our approach to diversity in relation to appointments at or re-election at the forthcoming AGM are set out on pages 32 Board level can be found in the Our People section on page 28 and to 34 and in the Notice of Meeting.
These set out their skills and the Nomination Committee Report on page 49. experience, together with details of their membership of Board Committees committees.
Details of the Board Directors tenure and experience The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of are also shown on these pages.
certain Directors and, in the case of the Treasury Committee, The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its certain senior managers to whom specific responsibilities have approval which includes responsibility for: been delegated, and for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
These terms of reference can be found in the The approval of the Group strategy and its budgetary and corporate governance section of the Companys website.
A verbal business plans update on the proceedings from each committee meeting is The review and approval of major investment proposals and provided to the Board by the Chairman of the relevant committee.
capital expenditure Board members can also request presentations or reports on areas The approval of full-year and half-year results and trading of interest.
updates The performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The review and approval of the going concern basis of Committees are assessed annually as part of the evaluation process accounting and the viability assessment described below.
Further details of the work, composition, role The approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment and responsibilities of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and recommendation of interim and final dividends Committees are provided in separate reports on pages 43 to 73. www.
com Electrocomponents plc 39 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Report Board meetings Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on the matters to be discussed for each Board and committee meeting.
The roles of Chairman and CEO are held by different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO has At each Board meeting: been clearly established: their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Further information on the The CEO presents a comprehensive update on the business issues across the Group.
division of responsibilities between the Board members is available in the corporate governance section of our website.
The Group Finance Director presents a detailed analysis of the financial performance, as well as reports on investor relations Information and development and feedback from investors.
Training and induction Members of the Executive Management Team EMT and other Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, senior managers attend relevant parts of Board meetings in knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility, seminars and briefings, through participation at meetings and providing updates on developments and changes to the through visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as business.
well as by receiving presentations from senior management.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the Company The Company Secretary presents a report on key regulatory and Secretary.
legal issues that affect the Group.
Board committees and Directors are given access to independent Between Board meetings, Directors also meet with members of professional advice at the Groups expense if they deem it the EMT and are provided with information in a timely manner on necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
matters affecting the business as and when relevant.
Specific training provided to the Board during the year included an Further information relating to the activities of the Board during the update regarding corporate governance matters, approach to cyber year is available in the corporate governance section of our website.
risk and a report on the Groups corporate responsibility activity.
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and of A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year Further details of our induction programme can be found in the and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings, Nomination Committee Report on page 49. demonstrating commitment to their role as Directors of the Company.
The Board normally meets seven times per year and supplementary meetings of the Board are held as and when necessary.
Remuneration Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee scheduled scheduled Committee scheduled 5 5 Number of meetings held during the year 9 4 7 6 1 Sally Adams 3 3 2 Simon Boddie 4 4 3 Bertrand Bodson 7 7 3 3 5 5 5 5 4 David Egan 2 2 Karen Guerra 9 9 4 4 7 7 6 6 Paul Hollingworth 9 9 4 4 7 7 6 6 Peter Johnson 9 9 6 6 John Pattullo 9 9 4 4 7 7 6 6 Lindsley Ruth 9 9 Rupert Soames 9 9 4 4 7 7 6 6 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets 1.
Sally Adams, although not formally appointed as a Director, attended meetings as Acting Group Finance Director during the period 1 October 2015 to 29 February 2016.
Simon Boddie stood down as Group Finance Director with effect from 30 September 2015.
Bertrand Bodson joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2015.
David Egan joined the Company as Group Finance Director with effect from 1 March 2016.
Unscheduled Board and Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year in relation to the change of Group Finance Director and the new incentive framework being proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
40 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Board evaluation The Board recognises the benefit of an external evaluation and aims to carry out externally facilitated evaluations every two or three years, with our next one taking place in 2016.
This year we carried out an internal evaluation which was co-ordinated by the Company Secretary.
Views were also sought on the Chairman and Senior Independent Director SID and also the workings of the committees of the Board.
The Chairman also held one-to-one meetings with each of the Directors covering themes outlined in the questionnaire, the dynamics of the Board, training and development needs, and any other areas of concern.
The results of this years internal evaluation were again positive with strong levels of engagement.
Board members agreed that meetings worked well, especially in a period of transition, with the right topics being discussed and a good level of debate and challenge.
Outputs from last years internal evaluation Outputs from this years internal evaluation The main output from the 2015 evaluation was a focus on The Board agreed that the main focus for the coming year would succession planning and organisational capability, together with be around the further development of the Groups strategy a continued focus on the competitor landscape, looking at the in accordance with the PIP, mindful of the changes to the different business models and marketplace development in more organisation and the need to have clear KPIs to track progress.
Progress made this year included: In addition there would be a continued focus on succession planning and risk management.
Actions for the coming year are Two Board sessions focused on what capabilities the summarised below: business needed to support the PIP, which areas needed strengthening and succession plans for senior leadership PIP: Develop the value proposition to support the Groups team roles.
new strategic direction and ensure that the Group has the right organisational capability and leadership to support the Strengthening senior leadership team capability with two new future step change in performance.
It was also noted that our Board Directors and three hires of the next level down.
All two new divisions for electronics and industrial needed time new hires have strong international experience with a broad to establish themselves to ensure that they work effectively range of expertise including digital, supply chain, marketing, with the new regional hubs.
Risk management: The Board felt well appraised of the Regular updates to the Board on competitor developments, Groups key risks and felt the risk and operational audit together with a focused session reviewing the Groups value functions were well managed.
The Board would continue to proposition, including a comparison with its competitors.
focus on cyber risk and monitor the scale of change within the organisation to ensure that the Group can cope with such changes without losing sight of the key priorities in driving performance.
Succession planning: It was important to ensure that there were strong foundations for longer-term succession planning, both at Board level and within the senior leadership team in the business.
Board evaluation process 1 2 3 4 The Chairman The Company The Company Secretary prepared separate The reports of the findings and discussed and Secretary prepared reports of the findings for the Chairman and recommendations were presented agreed the scope a questionnaire the Chairman of each committee identifying by the Company Secretary of the evaluation which was sent to strengths, challenges and priorities.
A number to the Board, and each of its with the Company Board members for of recommendations were also included committees, who then discussed Secretary.
for discussion by the Board and each of its them and agreed any relevant committees.
actions for the year ahead.
com Electrocomponents plc 41 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Report Executive Directors have frequent discussions with Director re-election institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the The Code requires all Directors to retire and stand for re-election at Groups performance, which include meetings following the each AGM.
The Company complies with the Code requirement in announcements of the full-year and half-year results.
meetings the Executive Directors meet with major shareholders to The Board has a broad range of skills and experience and works discuss performance, strategy and governance.
During the year, together effectively as evidenced throughout this Annual Report the Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Accounts.
The Board, following its evaluation process, also had face-to-face meetings and calls with shareholders, and the SID considers that the performance of all the Directors continues to be and other Non-Executive Directors were available for discussions effective and demonstrates commitment to their role, and therefore if required.
The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Board on Further details of each Director standing for election and investor relations, including reports compiled by the Companys re-election are provided on pages 32 to 34 and details of their brokers and containing feedback from institutional shareholders.
attendance at Board and committee meetings are given on page 40 This ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated to of this Report.
Internal control and risk management Investor relations activity during the year included: The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups Face-to-face meetings and telephone briefings for analysts and system of internal control, which has been designed and investors in the UK, US and Europe, covering the vast majority implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and of shareholdings the risks to which it is exposed.
The Group has an established and Face-to-face presentations of full-year and half-year results ongoing process of risk management and internal control, which has continued throughout the year under review and up to the date Recorded webcasts and presentations are available on the of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
corporate website: video interviews with the CEO and the Group Finance Director are also available on the corporate website Further details of this process are given in the Audit Committee AGM where each member of the Board is available to answer Report on page 46 and the Strategic Report on page 24. questions The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not Several meetings between the Chairman and shareholders absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Consultation with shareholders by the Chair of the Going concern and viability Remuneration Committee on the new incentive framework The Boards statements on going concern and long-term viability can be found in the Strategic Report on page 24, together with an analysis of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties on page 25.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with both institutional and private investors.
The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive a copy.
It is also available on the Companys website, which additionally contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published financial results and presentations.
The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the AGM is used as an additional opportunity for the Chairman and other Board members to meet with shareholders and investors and give them the opportunity to ask questions.
Final voting results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website following the meeting.
