Corporate Audit Committee Report Governance We are very pleased to welcome our new Group Finance Director, David Egan, who brings with him both strong financial and commercial experience.
Paul Hollingworth Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear fellow shareholder Specific focus for the coming year As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I would like to present our In light of the changes being implemented around the business, report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee and and the associated challenges they present, we are mindful of the its activities during the year.
necessity of a sound system of internal control to provide us with a good system of checks and balances.
The Committee aims to protect the interests of shareholders by: We noted in last years report that we would continue to focus on Assisting the Board in ensuring the integrity of the financial and ensuring that appropriate processes are in place for the review and corporate reporting and auditing processes utilisation of automated controls, including IT user access rights, Ensuring effective internal control and risk management and this is something that remains a priority together with cyber systems are in place risk as a whole.
Continued focus will also be placed on the Groups Measuring the Groups effectiveness in managing risk risk processes.
Assisting the Board to present a fair, balanced and We are very pleased to welcome our new Group Finance Director, understandable assessment of the Group position and David Egan, who brings with him both strong financial and prospects in the Annual Report and Accounts commercial experience, further enhancing our finance function.
Approving the remit of the Internal Audit function and reviewing On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank everyone for their its effectiveness and findings hard work over the year, including  PwC Ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between as our Auditor, and the Internal Audit and Group Finance teams.
the Group and its Auditor, including the recommendation to approve the Auditors appointment and fees Paul Hollingworth Chairman of the Audit Committee Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external audit 19 May 2016 process Reviewing whistleblowing, anti-bribery and fraud procedures Specific focus during the year As noted in last years report, the Committee has been working with the business to ensure that we are in compliance with the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and associated guidance relating to the viability statement and corporate risk management respectively.
With this in mind, we have also reviewed the format of the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure we give an integrated and transparent view of the Group performance and strategy to our shareholders in a clear and concise manner.
com Electrocomponents plc 43 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Audit Committee Report Committee members The Board is satisfied that the Meetings are scheduled in accordance with Chairman of the Committee has the the financial and reporting cycles of the Paul Hollingworth Chairman current and relevant financial and Company and generally take place prior to Bertrand Bodson from 1 June 2015 accounting experience required by the Board meetings to ensure effectiveness of the Karen Guerra provisions of the Code and that the collaboration with the Board.
other members of the Committee have John Pattullo Members and their attendance at meetings a sufficiently wide range of business Rupert Soames during the year are set out in the Corporate experience and expertise such Governance Report on page 40.
Other regular attendees that the Committee can effectively fulfil its responsibilities.
Details of The Committee has independent access to Company Chairman the skills and experience of the the Internal Audit team and to the Auditor.
Chief Executive Officer Committee members are given in their The Head of Internal Audit and Risk and the Group Finance Director biographies on pages 32 to 34.
Auditor have direct access to the Chairman Company Secretary of the Committee outside formal Committee Attendance of others is at the invitation meetings.
Group Financial Controller of the Committee Chairman only and does not restrict the Committees Head of Internal Audit and Risk The Chairman provides updates to the Board independent decision making.
on the proceedings of each meeting.
Auditor Activities during the year The process used includes: Further information on the activities of the Audit Committee during the A thorough understanding of the regulatory requirements for the year is available in the corporate governance section of our website.
Annual Report and Accounts Financial reporting A draft copy provided to the Committee early in the drafting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is process to assess the broad direction and key messages, with a to review, with both management and the Auditor, the full-year and further draft provided prior to sign-off of the Annual Report and half-year financial reports.
Accounts The Committee focuses on ensuring compliance with the relevant A cascaded sign-off across the Group to determine the financial and governance reporting requirements and determines accuracy and consistency of the data and language whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is A detailed review by all appropriate parties including the fair, balanced and understandable.
It also takes into account the external advisers significant accounting issues and judgements noted on page 45 and to support its review, regular reports are also received from the A checklist of all the elements of the process was completed to Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
document the process and presented to the Committee for review to provide assurance that the appropriate procedures had been The Groups KPIs are shown on pages 14 and 15 of the Strategic undertaken.
Further information on how we carry out the above processes is available in the corporate governance section of our The Committee has reviewed the Groups Annual Report and website.
Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 and has advised the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts taken Fair, balanced and understandable as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested parties, information necessary to assess the Groups performance, business the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and understandable model and strategy.
assessment of the Groups position and prospects, providing necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups business model, strategy and performance.
For the year ended 31 March 2016 the Group carried out a process for reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that they were fair, balanced and understandable.
44 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Membership and meetings Corporate Governance Details of accounting policies and areas of judgement can be found Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement in the notes to the accounts on pages 88 to 125.
The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement considered of judgement that may materially impact reported results as well by the Committee during the year, and how these were addressed, as the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting are set out below.
Further details in each of these areas are standards and the relevant requirements around financial and detailed in the summary of key estimates and judgements in Note governance reporting.
Significant accounting issues and areas How the Committee addressed of judgement these matters Inventory valuation: Inventory represents a material The Group estimates the net realisable value of inventory in order to proportion of the Groups net assets.
At 31 March determine the value of any provision required and key judgements relate to 2016, the Group had 269.4 million 2015: 285.1 the duration of product life cycles, amount of anticipated sales over this life million of inventory on the balance sheets.
cycle and the value recoverable from any excess stock.
An update of these assumptions, based on recent experience, was presented to the Committee for review.
Pension valuation: The Group has material defined Small changes to the assumptions used to value the UK retirement benefit benefit pension schemes in the UK, Ireland and obligation can have a significant impact on the financial position and results Germany.
At 31 March 2016, the total deficit in of the Group.
The Committee reviews the assumptions put forward by the relation to these defined benefit pension schemes actuaries and the Group Pension Manager.
Goodwill: There is 182.0 million of goodwill on the The value of goodwill is reviewed regularly for impairment using a value-inbalance sheet at 31 March 2016 2015: 176.5 use model using cash flow and discount rates as set out in Note 12 on page million, which principally relates to the acquisition of 103.
The Committee reviews these impairment tests every year, confirming Allied Inc. in July 1999. that adequate headroom is in place and no impairment provision is required.
Reorganisation costs and asset write-downs: Included The Committee reviewed guidance regarding the inclusion of costs shown as in this years results is a charge of 41.9 million H1: reorganisation costs, and received regular updates on the level and nature of 11.4 million relating to reorganisation costs and a these costs.
The decision to write down the website development project was decision to halt development of a new website.
agreed by the Committee, then following with an internal audit review of the project governance and lessons learned.
Following the recent guidance from the International Financial the Groups tax strategy.
The Committee reviews the effective tax Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC, we have reviewed rate and the balance sheet provision at the half year and the full our accounting policy relating to the treatment of our cash pools.
year, and discusses the position with senior management as well as We have legal right of offset for all single currency cash pools in the Auditor.
operation and have the intent to net settle these pools, which will In its review of the financial statements for the year ended 31 be demonstrated at reporting periods going forward, in line with the March 2016, the Committee also considered analysis to support new guidance.
As we do not intend to do this for our multi-currency the Companys going concern and viability statements.
Details of pools we have revised our accounting policy and have presented these statements are noted on page 24 of the Strategic Report.
As a result we have restated our balance sheets by 37.0 million as at 31 March 2014 and by 31.6 million as at 31 March 2015 to reflect this treatment.
In addition to the above, the Committee reviewed the Groups taxation provision, which requires accounting estimates regarding tax liabilities accruing across our multiple geographies and the recoverability of losses.
Last year the Board reviewed and endorsed www.
com Electrocomponents plc 45 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Audit Committee Report Specific reporting systems covering treasury operations, major Internal control and risk management investment projects and legal and insurance activities, which The Boards responsibilities for the systems of internal control are reviewed by the Board and its committees on a regular basis and their effectiveness are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 42, together with the going concern and viability Whilstleblowing procedures allowing individuals to report fraud statements on page 24. or financial irregularities The Committee receives quarterly reports from the Head of Internal Internal audit Audit on the performance of the system of internal control, and The Committee reviews and approves the scope and resourcing of on its effectiveness in managing principal risks and in identifying the Internal Audit programme annually with the Groups internal control failings or weaknesses.
The scope is decided upon by reference to the perceived geographic, functional and operating risks around the business.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the These risks are identified from previous audit experience, input recommendations of the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting, the Committee from the executive management team and other external sources.
reviews the Groups risk management process annually.
This year The Committee reviews: the process has involved the consideration of the Groups risk The level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal Audit appetite, with the outcome being reported to the Board and any areas for further consideration being discussed at subsequent function to conduct this programme of work meetings.
This, together with regular updates to the Board on the The summary of the results of each audit and the resolution of principal risks, allows the Board to assess the systems of internal any control issues identified control and the residual risk for the purposes of making its public The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function statement.
The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the Chairman These reviews covered material controls, including financial, of the Committee, in the form of telephone calls and face-to-face operational and compliance controls and risk management meetings.
These discussions are around audit planning and systems.
Further information regarding principal risks and matters noted during Internal Audit assignments.
The Company uncertainties to the business is given on page 25 of the Strategic Report.
Chairman and other members of the Committee are also available if required.
At least annually the Committee meets with the Head of Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been Internal Audit without the presence of the executive management.
identified through the processes outlined above, plans for strengthening them are put in place and plans regularly monitored Auditor until complete.
During the period, the Internal Audit function was The Committee and the Board put great emphasis on the objectivity asked to review a website development project, to feed back on the of the Groups Auditor, PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
To overall governance of the project and to share lessons learnt with ensure full and open communication, the Group Audit Partner from the Committee.
There were no other control failings or weaknesses PwC was present at all of the Committee meetings.
that resulted in unforeseen material losses.
The performance and effectiveness of the Auditor is reviewed Internal financial controls annually by the Committee, and covers qualification, expertise, Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the Group resources and appointment as well as assurance that there are no to support the Directors in discharging their responsibilities for issues which could adversely affect the Auditors independence financial matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 74. and objectivity taking into account the relevant standards.
As part of risk evaluation planning the Committee considers the risk of its The main elements include: current Auditor withdrawing from the market.
Assessments by Internal Audit on the effectiveness of operational controls Following a full review and having given full consideration to the performance and independence of the external Auditor, the Clear terms of reference setting out the duties of the Board and Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to its committees, with delegation to management in all locations reappoint PwC be proposed at the 2016 AGM and the Board has Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals outlining the accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
The Company accounting policies and controls also considers the annual appointment of the Auditor by the Weekly, monthly and annual reporting cycles, including an shareholders at the AGM to be a fundamental safeguard.
annual budget approved by the Board and regular quarterly Further details of how we work with our Group Auditor and how forecast updates independence is maintained can be found in the corporate Local leadership teams reviewing results against forecast governance section of our website.
and agreed performance metrics and targets with overall performance reviewed at hub and Group levels 46 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of Fraud the Competition and Market Authoritys Order for the financial year The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and under review.
detection of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must External audit tender be reported to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and investigated by operational management or Internal Audit, as Following an external tender process carried out in 2014, we are appropriate.
The outcome of any investigation is reported to the not required to re-tender until 2024.
This is in accordance with the Company Secretary.
A register of all suspected fraudulent activity FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and the Code, published in and the outcome of any investigation is kept and circulated to the September 2012 and September 2014 respectively, which stipulate Committee on a regular basis.
During the year in question, very few that FTSE 350 companies should put their external audit services frauds were reported, none of which were of a material nature to contract out to tender at least once every ten years.
no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of external auditor.
Whistleblowing Non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in The Group has a policy to ensure that the provision of such confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial services does not impair the Auditors independence or objectivity.
reporting or other matters and ensuring that these concerns are In determining the policy, the Committee has taken into account investigated and escalated as appropriate.
An external third party possible threats to Auditor independence and objectivity.
Policy on operates the reporting tools to ensure anonymity where required.
non-audit services includes: Whistleblowing is referred to as Speak Up internally and is available In providing a non-audit service, the Auditor should not: to all employees, and the Group legal team has undertaken focused audit their own work activity to promote the facility to our international employees over the course of this financial year.
The Committee receives make management decisions for the Group aggregated reports on matters raised through these services and create a mutuality of interest monitors their resolution.
find themselves in the role of advocate for the Group The total non-audit fees for any financial year should not exceed 70% of the average of the external audit fee over the last three years.
In practice the non-audit fees are normally significantly below this level.
During the year under review the non-audit fees for PwC came to 10,000.
Full details of our policy in relation to non-audit services can be found in the corporate governance section of our website.
Committee evaluation The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of the internal Board evaluation process performed during the year under review.
In this years evaluation it was noted that there was strong support for the effectiveness of the Internal Audit team in a period of transition for the business and that the move from KPMG to PwC had gone well, noting PwCs input around the SAP controls and processes.
There was also support for continued focus on cyber risk and the Groups risk appetite remaining a priority in the coming year.
Further details of the evaluation process can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41. www.
com Electrocomponents plc 47 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
