Nomination Committee Report A major focus was the recruitment of a strong Group Finance Director to balance and complement Lindsley Ruth and support him in transforming our performance.
Peter Johnson Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Committee continued to review succession planning for Dear fellow shareholder Executive and Non-Executive Directors as well as for the Executive As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I would like to present Management Team EMT to ensure we have the capability to our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee drive the long-term growth of the business in line with our new and its activities during the year.
The Committee met on six occasions during the year.
It is As reported in my Chairmans Report, in July Rupert Soames responsible for: will complete nine years as a Non-Executive Director, seven of Considering the structure, size and composition of the Board them as our Senior Independent Director.
Rupert will not stand to ensure it has an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
His experience and independence experience and wisdom will be hard to replace.
We began the Developing succession plans for the Board in light of the search for a replacement earlier this calendar year.
challenges the Group will face in the future Following this years Board evaluation, succession planning will Ensuring the procedure for appointing Directors is rigorous, remain a focus for the Committee, at both Board level and within transparent, inclusive and objective the EMT.
We will continue to focus on how we can increase Recommending suitable candidates for appointment to the diversity at both Board and executive levels.
Board and ensuring new Directors undergo an appropriate Peter Johnson induction relevant to the Group Chairman of the Nomination Committee At the beginning of the year, the Committee recommended the 19 May 2016 appointment of Bertrand Bodson as a Non-Executive Director.
Bertrand, who is Belgian, brings strong digital and marketing experience to the Board.
A major focus was the recruitment of a strong Group Finance Director to balance and complement Lindsley Ruth and support him in transforming our performance.
We identified the need for someone with international experience, a strong track record of driving both organic and inorganic transformation and previous experience as the Group Finance Director of a publicly listed company.
We were delighted to recommend the appointment of David Egan, who meets our criteria in full.
48 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance The Board takes into account the need for it to refresh its Committee members membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive Directors are Peter Johnson Chairman normally expected to serve for six years.
They may be invited to serve longer, but additional service beyond six years is subject to Bertrand Bodson from 1 June 2015 rigorous review, and service beyond nine years is unlikely.
Karen Guerra Paul Hollingworth After thorough discussions by the Committee, and approval by the John Pattullo Board, extensions of terms for Karen Guerra and John Pattullo Rupert Soames were agreed for a further three years, and the renewal of my appointment as Company Chairman was also agreed for a further three years.
Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members are The terms of appointment for the Board members are available for given in their biographies on pages 32 to 34. inspection at the Companys registered office and at our AGM.
Members and their attendance at meetings during the year are set Succession planning out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 40.
The Chairman Succession planning, both at executive and non-executive level, provides updates to the Board on the proceedings of each meeting.
remains a key focus for the Board.
The Chief HR Officer gave Appointment of Directors presentations to the Board during the year on organisational Where a new director is to be appointed, a candidate profile is capability and succession planning for key senior management developed based on a review of future business issues against the roles.
On recommendation from the Committee, the Board experience and skills of existing Board members.
This is used to agreed details of the key competencies required to enhance the brief external recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee composition of the Board and those competencies have been used to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings with prospective in the search for both Bertrand and David.
candidates are held by a combination of the Company Chairman, Diversity the Company Secretary and sometimes another Board Director, The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises its and a shortlist is selected to meet all other Board members.
The Committee then meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be adherence to the Group Diversity Policy in considering succession planning and recruitment at Board level, and is recommended to join the Board.
mindful of the policy when instructing any recruitment consultants For our recruitment activities in relation to the Group Finance or other advisers it appoints.
The policy states that it is in the best Director, we appointed Heidrick & Struggles to assist us.
We interests of the Company to ensure balance and diversity at Board have appointed Zygos to support us in finding a successor to level, and strongly encourages recruitment consultants to widen Rupert Soames.
Zygos is accredited under the Enhanced Code search parameters so that a diverse range of candidates may be of Conduct for search consultancies.
Neither company has any considered, where appropriate.
The Committee has actively sought other connection to the Company and both are therefore fully to increase both gender and national diversity whilst also recognising independent.
the importance of inherent diversity of experience and approach and ensuring we recruit the best possible person for the job.
Any appointments to the Board receive an induction in respect of their directorship.
This will typically include meetings with The recent recruitment activities have resulted in bringing senior management, sales visits to customers, presentations from additional international diversity to the Board with the appointment key business areas, and tours of our UK warehouses, as well as of David Egan, who has dual British-Australian nationality and technical training on legal and governance issues and any other Bertrand Bodson, who is from Belgium.
Recent recruitment has relevant documentation.
also significantly increased the international diversity within the EMT, reflecting the nature of our business.
Terms of appointment Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
NonExecutive Directors do not have service contracts but instead have a letter of appointment which sets out expected time commitments.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of activity at particular times.
Details of the Companys policy on Executive Directors service contracts and terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 and 61 respectively.
com Electrocomponents plc 49 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
