Corporate Governance The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide both of which were issued in February 2015.
The AIC Code as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in September 2014, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year to 30 September 2016 except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to the role of chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not currently relevant to the position of the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are currently outsourced to third parties.
However, as reported elsewhere, it is intended that the Company should return control of all executive and investment functions to the Board from June 2017 and accordingly it is developing internal resources to assume all operating responsibilities from June 2017, having served notice of termination of the contracts under which the Company had wholly and exclusively outsourced all of the Companys activities to Epiris, with termination becoming effective on 31 May 2017.
The Companys report this year does not cover the provisions of the Code relating to the role of chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function except to the extent that these have been put in place at the time of writing.
The Board of Directors The Board comprised six Directors as at 30 September 2016, all of whom were non-executive apart from Edward Bramson who was appointed as an unpaid interim Chief Executive Officer on 26 May 2016.
Roger Yates was Chairman of the Company until 5 November 2015 when he resigned as Chairman and Director of the Company.
Dame Kate Barker was Chairman of the Company from 5 November 2015 to 12 May 2016 when Neil Johnson was appointed as Chairman and Director of the Company.
Dame Kate Barker was nominated by the Board as the Senior Independent Director of the Company for the periods to 5 November 2015, when she was appointed Chairman of the Company, and from 12 May 2016 when Neil Johnson was appointed Chairman of the Company until 20 June 2016 when she resigned as a Director.
Roger Perkin was nominated by the Board as the Senior Independent Director for the periods from 5 November 2015 to 12 May 2016 and from 20 June 2016 throughout the remainder of the year.
On 5 November 2015 the Company held a General Meeting, which had been requisitioned by its largest shareholder, Sherborne Investors.
At this meeting two nominees of Sherborne, Edward Bramson and Ian Brindle were elected to the Board.
On 23 November 2015 Geoffrey Cullinan resigned as a Director of the Company.
David Lis and Paul Goodson were appointed as Directors of the Company on 26 May 2016.
Josyane Gold and Francesca Barnes resigned as Directors of the Company on 2 June 2016 and 20 June 2016 respectively.
The Directors terms of appointment are available for inspection on request from the Company Secretary.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management arrangements with Epiris.
Management Agreements between the Company and Epiris set out the matters for which Epiris is responsible and those over which Epiris has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
Regular Board meetings are held to consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
138 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 The number of meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All the Directors of the Company who were members of the Board at the time attended the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Management Remuneration Audit Valuations Engagement and Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 4 2 1 4 N Johnson 2 2 3 3 E Bramson 6 6 1 1 1 1 I Brindle 6 6 3 3 1 1 D Lis 2 2 1 1 2 2 P Goodson 2 2 2 2 RK Perkin 7 7 4 4 2 2 4 4 R Yates 1 1 Dame Kate Barker 5 5 1 1 1 1 2 2 G Cullinan 1 1 1 1 1 1 F Barnes 5 5 2 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 J Gold 5 5 2 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 In addition to its scheduled board meetings, the Board met on a number of other occasions during the year to discuss a number of exceptional matters, including the requisition of a general meeting received from Pershing Nominees on behalf of Sherborne Investment Management Guernsey LLC and its associates in September 2015 and the resulting circular to shareholders: the mandatory conversion of the convertible bonds in December 2015 and the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors in September 2016.
Dame Kate Barker was not a member of the Management Engagement Committee at any time while she was a Director and was not a member of the Audit or Valuations Committees whilst she was Chairman.
She attended all of the meetings of the Audit and Valuations Committee while she was Chairman of the Company.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive board papers in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 150 to 151.
Independence of the Board Edward Bramson is a managing member of Sherborne Investors and Mr Brindle has held non-executive directorships in a number of companies in which Sherborne Investors has had an interest.
Both of these Directors were nominated to become Directors of the Company at the General Meeting requisitioned by Pershing Nominees on behalf of Sherborne Investment Management Guernsey LLC and its associates in September 2015.
On the basis of these relationships to the Companys largest shareholder neither of these Directors is considered by the Board to be independent.
Roger Yates, Roger Perkin and Geoffrey Cullinan were the non-executive Directors of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC EPEI at the commencement of the current year on 1 October 2015.
Roger Yates resigned as a Director of EPEI on 5 November 2015.
Francesca Barnes and Ian Brindle were appointed as Directors of EPEI on 23 November 2015 and on the same date Geoffrey Cullinan resigned as a Director of EPEI.
On 20 June 2016 Francesca Barnes resigned as a Director of EPEI.
EPEI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Electra which was established solely for the purpose of issuing and redeeming Zero Dividend Preference shares.
On 12 August 2016 a special resolution was passed at a General Meeting of EPEI requiring that it be wound up voluntarily.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 139 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and, notwithstanding the cross-directorships detailed above, has concluded that each Director, apart from Edward Bramson and Ian Brindle, is wholly independent, on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by cross-directorships.
Therefore the majority of the Board are independent.
The Board carries out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and performance and those of its Committees each year.
The Boards policy is that this review should be externally facilitated every three years, as required by the Code.
However, in view of the changes to the Board and the Review of the Company that have taken place during the financial year under review, the Board agreed that this was not an appropriate time to carry out an  review and deferred this until after the year end.
Since 2012, the Board has carried out an annual evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees through questionnaires which were completed by Directors, the results of which were discussed by the Board.
The process is considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Board recently commissioned Korn Ferry to carry out an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees and the results of that evaluation are set out below.
Korn Ferry has advised the Board on the appointment of a number of Directors during the year.
However separate teams within Korn Ferry are responsible for Director recruitment and Board evaluation.
Korn Ferry report In line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has conducted an evaluation of its performance.
The services of Korn Ferry were retained for the purposes of conducting the board evaluation process.
Board evaluation process: Korn Ferry undertook a formal evaluation by: Having preliminary conversations with the Chairman as to the scope of the review and to the governance and strategic context of Electra: Defining six areas to be assessed throughout the process: Preparing interview guidelines that were submitted to each member of the Board: Discussing those six areas during in-person interviews with each Director: Recommending actions for continuous improvement to the Board.
The areas reviewed were: alignment with the strategy and near-to-medium term direction of the company: alignment on Board responsibilities and overall mandate: nature of the conversation and discussions: future competency gaps: effectiveness of secretariat paper flow: team dynamics.
These topics were appropriately addressed and will be regularly reviewed as a matter of good governance.
Outcomes The Board, in its current membership, had been operating for less than a year at the time Korn Ferry commenced their review.
Nonetheless, their observations and the comments received from executive and non-executive Directors alike, point to an effective board with healthy interpersonal dynamics.
The interactions among non-Executives and between non-Executives and executives were deemed to be positive, and allowed for sufficient candour, with each Director able to exercise independent judgement.
140 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 The Chairmanship of the board was unanimously considered effective.
Korn Ferry concluded from their conversations with Board members that the Chairman facilitates contribution from all directors and adequately interfaces with executives and external shareholders.
The review also found that all of the Directors are aligned with the strategic course chosen by the Company: and the aggregate set of Directors skills and experiences provide adequate support to strategy execution, particularly through the appointment of two additional NEDs in John McAdam and Linda Wilding.
Overall, the Board is considered to be effective and working well with a high level of engagement by Board members.
As a result of Korn Ferrys evaluation and his own discussions with each of the Directors during the year, the Chairman has confirmed that all of the Directors, all of whom intend to retire and offer themselves for election or for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017, continue to be effective and that all of them continue to show commitment to their role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
Directors Terms of Appointment The Companys Articles of Association require that Directors shall retire and be subject to appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and be subject to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Directors who have served for more than nine years and who wish to continue in office are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Board does not believe that length of service disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election.
In accordance with the AIC Codes provisions on the re-election of Directors, which state that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, the Boards policy is that Directors should be re-elected annually.
In accordance with this policy all the then Directors were re-elected at the Annual General Meeting held in January 2016.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Boards policy on Directors Terms of Appointment, all the Directors including John McAdam intend to retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017 and to offer themselves for election or for re-election.
Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 150 to 151.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Frostrow Capital LLP acted as the independent Company Secretary in addition to its role as Board Advisor during the year under review.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by the Audit Committee which comprised all the Directors during the year, during the time of their membership of the Board, other than the respective Chairmen of the Board, while they were in office.
Roger Perkin is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met four times in the year under review and the report of its activities is contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 146 and 147.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
With effect from 2 December 2016, the members of the Committee are Roger Perkin Chairman, Paul Goodson and Linda Wilding.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 141 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview The Remuneration and Nomination Committee During the year, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprised all the Directors of the Company apart from Edward Bramson and Ian Brindle, during the time of their membership of the Board, all of whom are or were considered to be independent.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee was chaired by Dame Kate Barker for the periods from 1 October 2015 to 5 November 2015 when she was appointed Chairman of the Company and from 12 May 2016 when Neil Johnson was appointed Chairman of the Company to 20 June 2016 when Dame Kate Barker resigned as a Director.
The Committee was chaired by Roger Perkin for the period from 5 November 2015 to 12 May 2016 and David Lis was appointed as Chairman of the Committee from 1 July 2016 throughout the remainder of the year.
The Committee met four times in the year, including meetings to assist the process of identifying a suitable non-executive Chairman and other non-executive Directors during the year.
The report on its activities is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 124 to 137.
The Committees duties in relation to remuneration include determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for remuneration of the Directors.
Where appropriate, the Committee will consider both the need to judge the position of the Company relative to other companies regarding the remuneration of Directors and the need to appoint external remuneration consultants.
The Committees duties in relation to nomination include identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies based on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
The Companys policy on diversity is further detailed in the Strategic Report.
The Board has agreed that separate Remuneration and Nomination Committees should be established with effect from 2 December 2016.
The Committee members are: Remuneration Committee Chairman David Lis: members John McAdam from 1 January 2017 and Linda Wilding.
Nominations Committee Chairman Neil Johnson: members David Lis, John McAdam from 1 January 2017 and Roger Perkin.
The Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process carried out by Epiris under its contractual arrangements with the Company.
The Valuations Committee was chaired by Dame Kate Barker for the period 1 October 2015 to 5 November 2015 and by Francesca Barnes for the period 5 November 2015 to 20 June 2016, when she resigned as a Director, and by Paul Goodson since 1 July 2016.
The Committee comprised all the Directors during the year, during the time of their membership of the Board, other than the respective Chairmen of the Board during the year: Roger Yates for the period 1 October 2015 to 5 November 2015, Dame Kate Barker for the period 5 November 2015 to 12 May 2016 and Neil Johnson for the period from 12 May 2016 for the remainder of the year.
The Committee met twice during the year.
With effect from 2 December 2016, the members of the Committee are Paul Goodson Chairman, David Lis, Roger Perkin and Linda Wilding.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee was established to review the terms of the management contract to ensure that they are competitive and sensible for shareholders by satisfying itself that the investment management of the Companys portfolio is in accordance with the Objective and Investment Policy: satisfying itself that all other duties of the Manager are being performed: reviewing the overall performance of the Manager: and deciding on the continuation or termination of the agreement and by agreeing the terms and fees of any ongoing agreement.
The Committees duties are set out in the Committees written terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website.
The Management Engagement Committee was chaired by Geoffrey Cullinan for the period from 1 October 2015 to 23 November 2015 when he resigned as a Director.
The Committee was chaired by Edward Bramson for the period from 23 November 2015 throughout the remainder of the year.
The other members of the Committee during the year were Josyane Gold for the period 1 October 2015 to 2 June 2016 and Francesca Barnes for the period 1 October 2015 to 20 June 2016.
142 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 The Committee met once during the year to discuss the matters within its remit.
The Committee was also involved in discussions regarding the strategic review of the Companys investment strategy and policy and its structure as well as the decision to serve notice of termination of the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement and related limited partnership agreements with the Manager, which were approved by the full Board in May 2016.
On 13 September 2016, the Board agreed that, in light of the decision to give notice of termination of the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement and related limited partnership agreements with Epiris, there was no need to maintain a separate Committee and that the Committees duties should be handled by the Board in future.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman, senior executives of Epiris and the Company Secretary.
Following appointment, the Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with Directors their training and development needs as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company, in conjunction with Epiris, endeavours to provide the fullest information on the Company to its shareholders, maintaining a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and City analysts, as well as making a number of presentations and visits throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders are welcome to attend and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including receipt of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, Valuations and Management Engagement Committees are normally available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting each year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either through the Company Secretary, Frostrow Capital LLP, at 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL or at the Companys registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB.
Risk Management and Internal Controls The Manager, as AIFM of the Company under AIFMD, is responsible for risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with AIFMD.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and accords with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in September 2014.
The Board keeps the Managers performance of these responsibilities under review as part of its overall responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal control and includes the review of internal controls related to the financial reporting process which has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Board has carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk management and internal control for the year ended 30 September 2016 and concluded from the information reviewed that there were no significant failings or weaknesses.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 143 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Risk Appetite The Investment Strategy, as further detailed in the Strategic Report and the Objective and Investment Policy, provide the Company with one of the most flexible mandates in the private equity sector.
This means that the Company invests across the full range of private equity opportunities, in any sector and across the capital structure.
The Manager can therefore adapt its implementation of the Investment Strategy given changing investment conditions and opportunities.
The Carried Interest Schemes as further detailed in Notes 21 and 22 of the Notes to the Financial Statements are structured to try and foster the desired balance between risk and return.
The Manager is obliged to put a reasonable amount of its own capital against each investment on a pari passu basis with Electra.
The Carried Interest Schemes in place since 2006 take account of the time value of money and the mix and diversity of investments as they are based on pools of investments made in consecutive three year periods and have a hurdle of 8%.
The Board carefully reviews the activities and performance of the Manager, in particular through the Management Engagement Committee and considers that the Manager has the culture and willingness to take on appropriate risk to implement the Companys Investment Strategy and that this culture is embedded.
Reporting by the Manager to the Board in respect of Risk Management and Internal Control The Board receives monthly Managers Reports from the Manager.
These Reports include detailed information relating to risk management and liquidity risk management of the Company and are the primary mechanism the Manager has in place to evidence that it is fulfilling its obligation as AIFM to manage the risks facing the Company.
By reviewing these Reports the Board is also evidencing its monitoring of the risks facing Electra.
The Board receives and reviews the certificates verifying compliance with documented controls provided by Epiris on a six monthly basis.
Additionally the external auditors perform certain agreed upon procedures regarding these controls.
Operation of Risk Management and Internal Controls As detailed in the Strategic Report, the Principal Risks facing the Company are considered by both the Board and the Manager to be Macroeconomic Risks, Foreign Currency Risks, Transition Risk, Long-Term Strategic Risks, Investment Risks, Portfolio Diversification Risk, Valuation Risk, Operational Risk, Gearing Risks and Cash Drag Risk along with the risks detailed in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The Board and the Manager regularly consider the changes in the nature, likelihood and impact of the Principal Risks along with the Companys ability to respond to changes in its business and external environment.
As required under the AIFMD, the AIFM must assess the appropriateness of the risk of each investment at the time of making the investment.
Responsibility for this is undertaken by the Partners of the Manager, but is sponsored by a Partner who is independent of the investment team responsible for that investment.
The valuations of investments are carried out by the Manager in accordance with the Companys Principles of Valuation of Investments as detailed on pages 103 to 104.
Again, Partners independent of each particular investment are responsible for authorising the valuation.
Additionally, as described above, the Valuations Committee of the Company also adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process of the Manager.
Since investment management, custody of assets and many administrative systems are provided or arranged for the Company by Epiris, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Epiris, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
As part of this process Epiris is responsible for submitting performance statistics, investment valuations and management Financial Statements to the Board.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management Financial Statements, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy regular review by the Board of the Companys Objective and Investment Policy, including commitments to new funds.
Management Agreements and Investment Performance the Board regularly monitors the performance of Epiris to ensure that the Companys assets are managed in accordance with the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
The Board considers the Companys system of risk management and internal control to be integrated with the Companys Business Model and Investment Strategy.
144 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Public Reporting The Companys consolidated annual Financial Statements, along with the half-yearly Financial Statements, and other RNS releases are prepared in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Voting Policy Under the investment management agreements Epiris has complete discretion in relation to all voting issues in respect of the Companys investments.
Epiris has adopted the UK Stewardship Code and has made disclosures regarding its policies on stewardship on its website www.
Epiris policies on stewardship have been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Other Information in the Report of the Directors Other information regarding voting rights of shares, restrictions on voting, deadlines for exercising voting rights, appointment and replacement of Directors, powers of Directors, authority to make market purchases of shares, substantial interests in the Companys shares and details concerning alternation of the Articles of Association of the Company is contained in the Report of the Directors.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 145 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
