Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Nomination Committee report The Chairman and members of the Nomination Committee Non-executive Director recruitment process theCommittee are shown on pages 30 to 31, together with their Noting that Andrew Christie would have served for nine years by biographical information.
Seven meetings were held during 2016 August 2017, the Board took the opportunity to review its size and andthe attendance records of Committee members are shown composition and decided that a new non-executive Director would onpage33.
The CEO is invited to attend all of its meetings, except be appointed early in 2017, to increase its international pro le and whenthe discussion concerns him or when it is a meeting of expertise, as well as strengthen the skill-set and resilience of the non-executives only, and other executives are invited to attend Board.
The candidate would replace Andrew Christie but there whereappropriate.
would be an overlapping period.
A role speci cation was agreed re ecting the skills and diverse background that the Board wanted The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys and Korn Ferry Hay group, who had previously acted for the website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: Company before as Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann and who have no connection with the Company other than as a recruitment adviser, Reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together with were engaged as the adviser for the search process.
the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members and making recommendations for change as necessary.
A long list was reviewed by the Committee from which a short list of six candidates including at least half who were female was Carrying out an annual performance evaluation of the Board, selected for interview.
The group of nalists met with all Directors itscommittees and individual members.
before the Committee decided to recommend Sandra Boss for Succession planning for the Board and leadership team.
In reaching its recommendation, the Committee concluded that the calibre of the nalist candidates was The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show such that the Board would bene t by broadening its international how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2016: pro le and expertise, as well as by improving its resilience.
It was therefore decided that the Board should increase its number from April: Meeting to discuss general CFO succession plans, seven to eight by appointing Dorothee Deuring as an additional non-executive Director succession plans and Board skill-set non-executive Director.
May: Meeting to ratify CFO recruitment process appointment 2016 Board evaluation ofadviser, role speci cation, etc and discuss list of candidates Following the external Board evaluation in 2015, the Committee with a view to selecting a preferred candidate.
decided to conduct last years Board evaluation without external assistance.
A qualitative questionnaire survey was produced June: Meeting to discuss progress on the CFO recruitment process, Board evaluation process for 2016 and non-executive in-house covering all aspects of the Boards structure, composition and operation, Board interactions internal and external, and Director succession plans including diversity in itsbroadest sense and agreeing the choice of recruitment adviser and a role business strategy, risks and priorities.
In addition, there were speci c sections on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration speci cation.
Committees including how well they were chaired and organised, July: Meeting to discuss Board performance evaluation approach the quality of Committee papers as well as their effectiveness.
and approve a draft questionnaire to be used, non-executive Furthermore, I met with each of the Directors to discuss their Director recruitment process and progress, andexecutive performance and any developmental needs.
The outcome of the leadership team structure and plans.
review highlighted that the Board and its committees are effective October: Meeting to discuss Board diversity and the Hamptonand well run, the executive and non-executive Director interactions Alexander review including agreeing an aspirationaltarget and are positive and the impressions of the CEO and CFO are that both considering the Boards diversity policyand wider Company are hungry to reignite growth in the Company.
The areas to focus policy and plans in this area, update on the non-executive attention on included: Board and leadership team transition, Director recruitment process including consideration of management information performance management, delivery of candidates and Board skill-set.
strategic priorities and talent management.
November: Meeting of non-executive Directors only.
Following the evaluation review, the Board is satis ed that all December: Meeting to select Sandra Boss as the preferred ourDirectors contribute effectively and demonstrate appropriate candidate and approve her recommendation to the Board for commitment to their role and, therefore, shareholders are asked appointment as a non-executive Director.
tosupport their election re-election at the AGM.
Shareholders may December: Separate meeting to approve the appointment nd the biographical information provided on pages 30 and 31 ofSandra Boss, consider increasing the size of the Board to useful to help them understand how a Directors background or broaden its skill-set and increase resilience, discuss the results experience in uences the contribution he or she makes to the ofthe Board evaluation, review the Chairmans performance and operation and effectiveness of the Board.
This will also assist review the Committees terms of reference.
shareholders in assessing the skills and experience of the Board, as a whole, when determining how to vote on certain resolutions at CFO recruitment process the AGM.
The information should also be read in conjunction with The Committee led the selection process for the appointment of the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report proposing anew CFO.
A role speci cation was drawn up detailing the skills, the election re-election of all Directors at the 2017 AGM, with the experience and capabilities required.
The Committee considered exception of Andrew Christie.
this and other procedural matters such as con dentiality and timetable.
Russell Reynold Associates, who have no connection with the Company, were engaged as the adviser for the process.
Along list of candidates was identi ed and a short list of three Andrew Duff candidates including a female candidate were interviewed by Chairman, Nomination Committee allofthe Directors in different stages.
Following these interviews, 1 March 2017 the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Ralph Hewins as the Companys CFO.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 35
