Audit Committee report The members of the Audit Committee the Committee are shown June on pages 30 to 31, together with their biographical information.
Reviewed PwCs H1 internal audit programme report and Aswell as being Chairman, I am the Committee member with managements responses to the audit findings.
recent and relevant financial experience required under governance Considered Deloittes transition and audit plan for 2016. rules.
Steve Good and Nick Salmon have relevant industry and Approved Deloittes letter of engagement and proposed sector experience and complement Andrew Christies investment feeforH1 and year-end audit.
banking and my corporate finance experience.
There were four meetings held last year and the attendance records of Committee July members are shown on page 33.
The Chairman of the Board, both Considered in combination with Deloittes H1 review report executive Directors and representatives of both the external auditor the2016 interim results announcement incorporating a Deloitte LLP and internal audit provider  management report and condensed financial statements LLP have a standing invitation to attend all Committee meetings, andnotes, management representation letter to the auditors exceptwhen an agenda item concerns either the external or andthe half year litigation, compliance and tax reports, internal auditor or is only for Committee members to meet with the aswellasthe half year going concern statement.
external or internal auditor without management or anyone else Reviewed and con rmed the Companys compliance being present.
During the year, the Committees terms of reference, a copy of Approved the updated non-audit services policy taking into which is available on the Companys website, were reviewed and account revised regulatory requirements and guidance.
The following is a summary of the Committees Considered brie ngs on the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review responsibilities: and UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and Guidance on Audit Committees.
Monitor the integrity of Group financial statements, financial reporting and related statements, as well as the clarity and December completeness of disclosures including narrative reports and Met with PwC without management present to consider the governance statements accompanying financial and related Groups internal audit programme.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit programme and Ensure the appropriateness of accounting policies, any changes PwCs performance, supported by the results of a survey to them, and any signi cant estimates and judgements made.
questionnaire completed by finance staff.
Review the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and risk Received PwCs H2 internal audit programme report.
management systems including whistleblowing arrangements.
Reviewed the adequacy of resources made available to PwC and Oversee all aspects of the relationship with the internal and the arrangements they have in place to ensure they can deliver an external auditors, such as: negotiating and approving their terms effective internal audit service.
of appointment, fees, the scope, manner and programme of Approved the re-appointment of PwC as internal auditors, agreed work: monitoring resourcing, performance and effectiveness, fees and programme of work for 2017. independence and objectivity taking into account relevant UK Approved Committee Terms of Reference that had been updated professional and regulatory guidelines: approving the policy on to include the Financial Reporting Councils Enhancing non-audit services: making recommendations to the Board for Con dence in Audit and amendments to theUK Corporate their dismissal or changes: and supervising any tender process.
The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show Received an update on the audit plan and progress fromDeloitte.
how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2016: Signi cant accounting and other issues February The primary areas of accounting judgement considered by Met with KPMG without management present.
theCommittee in relation to the 2016 financial statements are listedbelow.
Reviewed in combination with KPMGs audit report the 2015 Annual Report and associated preliminary results statement, Restructuring management representation letter to the auditors, internal control The new Chief Executive Of cer reorganised the management and going concern statements, tax, litigation and compliance structure and various parts of the business.
The costs of this reports including whistleblowing arrangements and the exercise, including redundancy costs, as well as recruitment and effectiveness, independence and objectivity of theauditors.
other costs associated with changes in the management structure, Recommended to the Board the approval of the 2015 was $3.0 million.
The Committee considered these costs and their AnnualReport.
presentation as adjusting items as shown in note 5.
Recommended to the Board the appointment of Deloitte asexternal auditor of the Company.
Environmental provisions Considered non-audit services and fees undertaken by The Committee considered the Groups decision to reduce the KPMGduring 2015. discount rate it uses to value liabilities which resulted in a charge of $4.5 million.
In addition, continuing remediation work on the legacy Chromium site at Eaglescliffe was reviewed and, based on the estimated outstanding tasks and their timeframe, resulted in a charge of $3.5 million.
36 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information ACT and deferred tax assets Non-audit services The Board continues to monitor the justi cation for, and carrying In 2016, non-audit services of $0.3 million from Deloitte were values of, ACT recoverable and deferred tax assets as part of the approved by the Committee 2015: $0.8 million to KPMG.
services consisted mainly of tax advisory services for our Taiwan entity and due diligence support in relation to the acquisition of Retirement bene t obligations SummitReheis.
Deloittes knowledge of the business meant it could The Committee considered the assumptions used for the IAS 19 provide these services cost effectively and the safeguards calculation of the surplus fide cit across the Groups different described earlier mean the Committee does not consider the schemes.
In addition the Committee considered the availability of provision of these services to affect the auditors independence the pension surplus recognised on the UK pension scheme taking and objectivity.
into consideration any future contributions.
The Companys policy on non-audit services contains guidance Revenue recognition onthe types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be The Groups revenue recognition accounting policy was considered considered for.
This guidance is in addition to other speci ed during the year, including the assessment over the international factors that must be taken into consideration, such as the expertise shipments which resulted in a restatement to the Groups revenue and resources of the rm, whether the services could risk recognition as disclosed in note 31.
The Committee satis ed itself jeopardising audit independence and the fee relative to the audit that the Group had appropriately recognised revenues in fee.
Examples of services that the external auditors may and may accordance with their contractual obligations during the period, not be allowed to perform under the policy can be found on the paying particular attention to period end cut-off.
The policy was reviewed during the year to ensure compliance with new EU rules on the provision of Auditor rotation and tendering and Competition and non-audit services by auditors.
Markets Authority order statement of compliance As reported this time last year, the Committee carried out an audit Under the policy, the CFO may approve individual engagements tender process in 2015 that resulted in the appointment of Deloitte where the fee is up to 15 per cent of the Groups audit fee for the LLP as auditor in April 2016. year, provided that the total non-audit fees in the year do not exceed 50 per cent of that Group audit fee.
Decisions above these The Committee therefore con rms that the Company is compliant thresholds must be referred to the Committee for determination.
with the order on mandatory tendering of audit contracts.
Internal control and risk management system Audit effectiveness, objectivity and independence The Committees formal remit includes reviewing the effectiveness As Chairman of the Committee I meet with the audit partner of the internal control, compliance and risk management systems frequently, including for both audit planning and review meetings.
which it carries out in support of the Boards formal review of The Committee meets the audit partner and usually the senior signi cant risks and material controls, as summarised in the Risk manager at all four of its formal meetings but it is the CFO and management report.
The focus of the Committees work when it finance teams who have most exposure to the audit team.
reviews internal audit reports is mainly on financial, operational and compliance risks.
PwC, who provides an outsourced internal audit To help the Committee carry out a formal review of the external function, plays a signi cant role in the Groups internal control auditors performance, a questionnaire based evaluation is usually process, which is designed for the purposes of preventing material undertaken towards the end of each year end audit cycle by financial loss and fraud, safeguarding the value of assets including members of our finance team globally.
The questionnaire used is reputation and ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and the template produced by KPMGs Audit Committee Institute which Group policies.
considers comprehensively different aspects of the audit process.
The Committee also monitors audit effectiveness by reviewing The Groups internal control and risk management system is only Audit Quality Inspection reports published by the FRC.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore the Board can only Since 2016 was Deloittes first audit, we decided not to undertake provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material aquestionnaire survey of the eld locations but to review Deloittes mis-statement or loss.
The Board is of the view that an ongoing performance by reference to the quality of its audit report and process for identifying, evaluating and managing signi cant risks opinion, its engagement with management and its quality faced by the Group was in place throughout the financial year assurance procedures.
The Committee concluded Deloittes under review and up to the date that this Annual Report was performance to be satisfactory and that the audit is effective as approved.
No signi cant internal control failings or weaknesses measured against their letter of engagement and the scope of were reported last year so none is disclosed here.
Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Groups The Committee considers the auditors objectivity and internal control and risk management system.
independence at least twice a year.
It receives reports from Deloitteon its internal quality control and independence rules, Control environment andkeeps under review the level of non-audit services Deloitte The Group has policies and procedures that set out the provides.
TheCommittee is of the view that Deloitte were responsibilities of business and site management, including objectiveand independent throughout the 2016 audit process authority levels, reporting disciplines and responsibility for notwithstanding the level of non-audit services provided.
In addition, annual compliancestatements on internal control are certi ed by eachoperating segment.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 37 Audit Committee report continued Risk identi cation and review Fair, balanced and understandable A formal risk review process exists at Board and leadership team The Board and Committee understand the governance levels for the identi cation, evaluation, mitigation and ongoing requirements for the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, monitoring of risks.
See separate Risk management report.
balanced and understandable, and that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, balanced should mean even handed in Financial reporting terms of being positive and negative and understandable should The Group operates a comprehensive financial reporting system mean simple, clear and free from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
including forecasts, consolidation and monthly reporting.
Board reports include full management accounts, comprising monthly The Board and Committee consider the Annual Report for 2016, and year to date pro t and loss statements, cash ow statements taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, and and balance sheet, with segmental and individual business provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess performance analyses, as well as relevant performance indicators.
theCompanys position and performance, business model and Actual monthly results are monitored against budget, forecasts strategy.
In coming to this view, the Board and Committee took andthe previous years results.
Any signi cant variances are thefollowing into consideration: i meetings between the investigated and acted upon as appropriate.
As well as monthly Committee Chair and the audit partner, as well as between the management accounts, each operating division prepares an auditor and the Committee without management being present: annual and a three year operating plan which is approved by the ii discussions at the audit clearance meeting: iii discussions with Board.
Thereafter a formal re-forecasting exercise is undertaken management on the progress of the audit at different stages of the three times a year.
audit process: and iv feedback obtained from members of the leadership and finance teams, as well as from the Companys Investment appraisal brokers and other advisers.
There are clearly fide ned investment guidelines for capital expenditure.
All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation procedures, with major proposals being considered by the Board.
Anne Hyland Chairman, Audit Committee Internal audit programme 1 March 2017 An internal audit programme is proposed by PwC in consultation with the CFO and approved by the Audit Committee each year, setting out a programme of audits over the course of the next 12 months.
The programme covers the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
As well as conducting audits of operating facilities, sales of ces and toller sites on a two to three year rotational basis, the internal audit programme includes reviewsof Group functions and processes.
Examples of some of the internal audits conducted during 2016 include: EU Shared Services Centre, IT resilience, cyber security, Specialty Products sites in the US and China and Chromiums Castle Hayne and Corpus Christi sites.
Controls assurance The controls assurance framework at Elementis is threefold: Board leadership supported by an open and transparent culture of no surprises, good governance and compliance.
This means knowing and understanding the businesses, quality interactions between the Board and the leadership teams including a regular programme of presentations and reports to the Board, as well as operational site visits.
Internal and external audit programme, regular litigation and compliance reviews with the General Counsel and a programme of compliance audits, regulatory inspections, environmental reviews and property surveys by external specialists.
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on which all employees are given training and are required to self certify compliance with, supplemented by an online compliance training programme, an anti-bribery and corruption policy, which contractors are also required to sign up to, whistleblowing arrangements and an anti-retaliation policy.
38 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016
