Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Compliance with the Code The Company is currently reviewing its wider diversity policies Board composition which will also include looking at our recruitment, employment As identi ed on pages 30 and 31, during 2016, the Board andtalent management practices at below Board level.
As an comprised two executive Directors CEO and CFO and five organisation, it is standard practice to require that any recruitment non-executive Directors including the Chairman and Senior adviser retained ensures female candidates are included in any Independent Director.
In 2017, the number of non-executives long and short list presented for consideration, and this was the willincrease to six as explained in the Chairmans statement on case in respect of the CEO and CFO search processes last year, page 3.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, aswell as in the non-executive recruitment process.
whilst the CEO is responsible for running the Groups businesses.
Theroles of Chairman and CEO are separate, clearly fide ned Director attendance in 2016 andno individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
Audit Nomination Remuneration TheChairman is supported by the Senior Independent Director Board Committee Committee Committee who is available to shareholders if the normal channels for raising Andrew Duff 8 8 7 7 any concern prove to be ineffective or inappropriate.
1 Paul Waterman 8 8 2 Ralph Hewins 3 3 It is the Chairmans responsibility to set the style and tone in Andrew Christie 8 8 4 4 7 7 8 8 whichthe Board operates and ensure there is a proper forum for constructive discussion and challenge, as well as a framework Steve Good 8 8 4 4 7 7 8 8 andthe conditions to enable the Board as a whole, and its Anne Hyland 8 8 4 4 7 7 8 8 individual Directors, to contribute effectively in the performance Nick Salmon 8 8 4 4 7 7 8 8 oftheir roles.
Such a framework and conditions include: access Past Directors torelevant and quality information, internal and external advice 3 David Dutro 0 0 andleadership and business teams: support and development 4 Brian Taylorson 7 7 opportunities: understanding the views of market analysts and Chairman of Committee major shareholders: and maintaining constructive relationships 1 appointed to the Board on 8 February 2016 between executive and non-executive members of the Board.
2 appointed to the Board on 12 September 2016 3 retired from the Board on 7 February 2016 Information about the executive Directors service contracts andthe 4 retired from the Board on 31 October 2016 non-executive Directors letters of appointment with the Company including remuneration and fee levels is set out in theDirectors Board independence remuneration report.
All non-executive Directors areappointed for The Board considers all the non-executive Directors to be three year terms that can be renewed by mutualagreement, subject independent in character and judgement throughout 2016 and to annual re-election by shareholders, satisfactory performance and issatis ed that each Director exercises independent judgement.
Thenon-executive Directors provide constructive challenge and help support the executive Directors in developing strategy and Board evaluation business priorities.
The Directors are required at all times to avoid The Board carried out an internal evaluation of its performance con icts of interest, act for a proper purpose and in the best during the latter part of 2016.
More details are set out in the interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
Noindividual or group dominates decision making.
Having carried out such an evaluation, and following a review of Board operation itsstructure and the decision to increase its size from seven to The Board has a formal programme of activities that are eight members, the Board considers that its composition contains undertaken at scheduled meetings throughout the year and the appropriate balance of diversity of views, quali cations, thisissupplemented by ad hoc meetings, conference calls or skills, experience and personal attributes necessary to carry out otherBoard events, as and when appropriate.
There were eight itsduties and responsibilities and to provide appropriate depth formalmeetings in 2016 and the attendance record of each andresilience.
Director is shown in the table above.
The Board is supported initsactivities byBoard committees that have been delegated Board diversity speci c responsibilities, as set out in their terms of reference, The Boards policy is that appointments should be made on the andaformal schedule of matters reserved for the Board allows basis of quali cation and merit.
The Board agrees that diversity, certain decisions to be retained by the Board and others to be which should be construed in its broadest sense and incorporate delegated to the executive Directors within certain parameters.
gender diversity, is an important factor in Board effectiveness and Theschedule of matters reserved for the Board includes supports the Codes principles and provisions on gender diversity.
thefollowing: The Board is supportive of the Hampton-Alexander review which sets a target for the percentage of women on boards to reach one Approval of strategic and annual operating plans.
The appointments of Sandra Boss and Dorothee Approval of financial statements, and major acquisitions Deuring during 2017 will mean that Elementis has achieved this anddisposals.
target which the Board is proud of.
Approval of risk management and compliance programmes, aswell as Group insurance arrangements.
Approval of major projects and capital expenditures.
Approval of major legal settlements and litigation.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 33 Corporate governance report continued The Board reviews the business, financial and operational and From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and, HSEperformance of the Group at each of its formal meetings, inconnection with remuneration proposals, the Chairman of the including major business initiatives, threats and opportunities, Remuneration Committee will organise a programme of meetings aswell as progress on product innovation and new customers.
with major shareholders to update them on any signi cant developments in business strategy, corporate governance matters Board and committee dates are scheduled at least a year in or consult them on proposals for executive remuneration.
advance, as are overseas site visits, and a 12 month forward planner helps to ensure that the Board spends an appropriate The AGM gives all of the Companys shareholders the amount of its time focused on the strategic issues affecting the opportunityto speak with the Directors and the Chairmen of the Groups businesses.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answerquestions.
To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an appropriate quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board The Notice of AGM is dispatched at least 20 working days before andcommittee meetings.
If there are any unresolved matters the meeting.
The Company proposes separate resolutions for concerning Board decisions, of which there were none in 2016, substantially separate issues.
In line with best practice voting is these would be recorded in the minutes of meetings.
Shareholders have the option to vote either for or against a resolution, or to withhold their vote.
The results of the Induction, development and support meeting are announced to London Stock Exchange and published All new Directors participate in an induction programme that on the corporate website.
includes meeting members of the leadership team, the internal andexternal auditors, the Companys joint corporate brokers, Directors and of cers liability insurance and, if appropriate, major shareholders.
Tailored training on the The Company maintains liability insurance for the Directors and duties andresponsibilities of a Director of a listed company is of cers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Since 2008, the provided asrequired and new Directors are also expected to Directors of the Company have been in receipt of an indemnity from undertake a programme of site visits.
the Company in respect of any liability or loss that may arise out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and All Directors have access to the advice and services of the responsibilities as Directors of the Company, or of any subsidiary, Company Secretary and may take independent professional tothe extent permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
Copies of advice, as appropriate, at the expense of the Company.
Directors these indemnities, which continue to remain in place, are available are given the opportunity throughout the year to undertake training for inspection at the Companys registered of ce during normal and attend seminars to keep their skills and knowledge up to date, business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
and receive internal brie ngs on technical and or other regulatory developments that they need to be made aware of.
The Company By order of the Board Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring that the Board and Board committees operate within the governance framework adopted and that communication and information ows within theBoard and its committees and between management and Wai Wong non-executive Directors are effective.
Company Secretary 1 March 2017 Communications with shareholders The CEO and CFO are the Companys principal contact withinvestors, analysts and the financial press.
The Company maintainsa comprehensive programme of activities to ensuretheirneeds aremet.
This includes stock exchange announcements, investormeetings, the Annual Report and updates to the corporatewebsite.
The Board receives regular feedback from shareholders following meetings with management in results and other investor roadshows.
Analysts forecasts and research reports about the Company and the wider chemicals sector, as well as presentations and reports from the Companys joint corporate brokers, are provided to all Directors, helping non-executive Directors to develop a clear understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for contact by shareholders at any time.
34 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016
