COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger The Audit Committee supports the Significant financial judgements Board and reports to it on a regular basis, for 2016 certainly no less frequently than at every Committee membership and Board meeting following a meeting Tax liabilities meeting attendance of the Audit Committee.
The Group is, from time to time, subject Terry Twigger 4 4 to tax assessments that may represent SI Non-Executive Director There is an annual cycle of items that are potential future tax exposures, which arise Tommy Breen to be considered by the Audit Committee.
in the ordinary course of business from tax 4 4 Non-Executive Director The timetable of these items is scheduled authorities in a number of the jurisdictions in accordance with the requirements of in which the Group operates.
The Group Peter Hill 3 4 Non-Executive Director the annual audit cycle and any other assesses all such exposures in the context requirements of the Audit Committee.
of the tax laws of the countries in which it Lorraine Trainer 4 4 operates and, where applicable, makes Non-Executive Director Responsibilities provisions for any settlements which it The Board has approved terms of considers appropriate.
Figures in brackets denote the maximum reference for the Audit Committee, which number of meetings that could have are available at www.
com and The Audit Committee reviewed the tax been attended.
are reviewed annually, and these provide a liabilities which existed at the start of framework for the Audit Committees the year, and those created during the Peter Hill was unable to attend one work during the year.
The terms are an year and the effective tax rate together meeting due to a conflicting commitment.
oversight of the: with their corresponding assumptions.
Appropriateness of the Groups The Audit Committee questioned and The Company Secretary & General Counsel external financial reporting challenged the Group Finance Director as acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
to the Companys risk attitude in this area.
Relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor Other attendees Having considered the explanations and The external auditor, Chairman of the Groups system of internal control, rationale provided by the Company, and Board, Group Finance Director, Group including the risk management taking this into consideration along with Financial Controller, Group Head of framework and the work of the the conclusion of the external auditor the Assurance and members of the GMC internal audit function: Audit Committee was satisfied that the attended meetings by invitation, as tax liabilities were appropriate, and that Groups system of compliance activity appropriate.
During the year, the Audit the Groups tax disclosures were adequate Committee met the external auditor, Review of significant accounting given the nature of the activity undertaken KPMG LLP, and the Group Head of judgements by the Group.
Assurance without the Executive Directors being present.
Revenue recognition There are a large number of sales Governance transactions that are incurred across the All the Audit Committee members are Group.
Given the risk that revenue may be independent Non-Executive Directors, and recognised in the incorrect period over have financial and or related business reporting dates, the Group needs to ensure experience gained in senior positions in that there are effective controls regarding other large diverse organisations.
the recording of sales transactions.
Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of Revenue recognition continued to be a the Audit Committee since 2009, and the key area of audit focus, and the external Board is satisfied that Terry has recent auditor addressed the potential issue with and relevant financial experience, further the Audit Committee during the planning details of which can be found on page 46. and scope of the external audit process.
The Group Finance Director outlined the direction given to the Finance and Commercial organisations on all aspects of revenue recognition, as well as the reviews undertaken by management.
60 DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM The Group Finance Director also Exceptional items Risk management and internal audit acknowledged the degree of reliance on The Audit Committee is satisfied that Reviewed and considered reports local judgement, but emphasised that the Groups definition of exceptional items from the Group Head of Assurance, local business controls and internal remains clear, and that further disclosure including any issues relating to reporting requirements would make it is included where appropriate.
The internal controls and the status unlikely that there were material or definition remains consistent with the of actions taken in response to systematic errors.
prior year and in the current year, the Audit any identified concerns Committee has been involved in assessing Monitored the development of risk Goodwill and intangible assets the appropriateness of including management practices through the As required by IAS 36, the Company impairment and restructuring within Group Assurance function undertakes assessment of the carrying this disclosure, on the basis that they are value of intangible assets on an annual one-off material items not relating to the Received reports from the Group basis, or more frequently if there is an Groups ongoing activities.
Further details Head of Assurance regarding the indication of impairment.
The details can be found in note 2 for further detail.
activities of the Operational Risk of the work carried out and the results Management and the Executive are in Note 8 of the Notes to the Audit Committee 2016 key activities Risk Management Committees Financial Statements.
"Reviewed a Report prepared by Financial Statements and reports the Group Assurance Finance on The operational challenges in the Health Examined the 31 December 2016 ""Experience, Development and & Personal Care Packaging business Annual Report and Accounts and the Retention of People in the Americas provided an indication of impairment, and 30 June 2016 Half Year Report."
"This & Europe"" the Audit Committee reviewed and involved reviewing, challenging and challenged the assumptions used in the recommending for approval the going Assessed the areas of focus for impairment analysis for this SBU with the concern basis of preparation, the internal audit and the adequacy Group Finance Director."
The Group Finance accounting policies and disclosures, of coverage, having regard to the Director confirmed that the assumptions the financial reporting issues and the potential risks impacting the Group used were based on the Companys assumptions and judgements made Reviewed the output from the Group understanding of the markets in which Reviewed in detail the key judgements processes used to identify, evaluate the SBU operates and the forecast of the Financial Statements and levels and mitigate risk, and considered the performance in these markets over the of disclosure key risks arising from the Companys short and long term.
The result of the activities and the response of senior analysis is an impairment of 123.9m.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the management to those challenges Groups internal controls and The external auditor carried out an disclosures made in the Annual Report Reviewed an independent report independent assessment of the and Financial Statements prepared by EY on cyber security, and impairment analysis and assumptions continued to receive regular reports Considered whether there were any used by Essentra, taking into consideration from the Chief Information Officer on new IFRS pronouncements that would fair value versus value in use and the the development of the Companys be applicable to Essentra for the 2016 applicable UK accounting standards.
The response to cyber security and financial period and reviewed plans for external auditor concluded and confirmed information technology risks the implementation, in future years, of to the Audit Committee that the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Reviewed the adequacy of the assumptions used were reasonable.
Companys resources in relation to careful consideration of the report, the financial reporting, tax and treasury Audit Committee was satisfied with the Reviewed the key responsibilities of the management requirements assumptions made and the judgements Directors, particularly in relation to the applied, and was satisfied that the issues which should be considered in Oversaw compliance activities Companys approach to the impairment order to conclude the annual accounts while monitoring the regulatory review was appropriate and in line with are fair, balanced and understandable environment, and assessed any accounting standards.
impact to the business Considered the accounting principles to be adopted in the preparation of The Group Finance Director confirmed the 2017 accounts to the Audit Committee that no further businesses had been identified as having impairment triggers during the period.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Reviewed the Companys Committee that the appropriate resources The internal procedures implemented whistleblowing processes and reports were being put in place to ensure that the by the Company to ensure the Board made during the year under its Right appropriate standards were being maintains overall control for all material to Speak policy achieved, and that there was sufficient strategic, financial, operational and oversight from regional and Group compliance matters affecting the Reviewed an independently financial management in this area.
Company are included within the internal commissioned report on the control section of this Report.
development and testing of the As previously discussed in the Chairman Companys business continuity plans of the Audit Committees letter there, was The Board establishes the standards and incident management practices produced and reviewed during the year an and values that govern the Group, and The Audit Committee takes responsibility independent report from EY on the current agrees the structure of the Groups for reviewing the Groups internal controls adequacy of the Company's controls in internal controls.
through its engagement with the Group relation to cyber security, and the potential Assurance function.
The Group Head of procedures and systems which need to be Engagement of the external auditor Assurance is responsible for providing implemented to guard against this risk.
In order to protect independence and assurances as to the adequacy of internal Alongside this, the Audit Committee objectivity and provide fresh challenge controls throughout the Company, and continued to review the Companys cyber to the business, the external auditor attends each Audit Committee meeting.
security capabilities and received regular periodically changes the audit partners Prior to the start of each year, the Audit presentations from both the Group Finance at a Group, divisional and country level Committee agrees the annual internal Director and the Chief Information Officer.
in accordance with professional and audit plan, which is drawn up on a regulatory standards.
Such changes risk-based approach across a broad section The Audit Committee continued its focus are carefully planned, to ensure that the of the Companys activities.
Any significant on the Groups compliance activities and Group benefits from staff continuity findings from internal control audits received regular presentations from the without incurring undue risk of inefficiency.
undertaken during the year have been Company Secretary & General Counsel.
appropriately investigated, and necessary The Audit Committee noted the In line with the changes made to the UK action taken to address and rectify any investment made by the Company in Corporate Governance Code in 2012, which weaknesses that may have been identified.
new systems designed to better facilitate recommended that the external audit is compliance policy management and put out to tender at least every ten years, With the significant growth and acquisition training across the Group, and deliver last year it was advised that an external activity undertaken by the Company, and due diligence processes to assist in the tender would commence after the 2016 the expansion into new markets and management of third-party risk.
geographies, the Audit Committee has sought assurance that the internal External auditor and non-audit work The tender process, initiated in July 2016, controls, together with risk management Reviewed and agreed the scope of involved an audit tender team led by the and compliance activities, have continued the audit work to be undertaken Chairman of the Audit Committee, and to develop in accordance with all relevant by the external auditor comprising the Audit Committee, the requirements, and that appropriate Group Finance Director, the Group Agreed the terms of engagement and resource is being made available to Financial Controller, as well as support fees to be paid to the external auditor respond to those demands.
from representatives of the Finance, IT, for their audit of the 31 December 2016 Legal and Company Secretarial teams.
Financial Statements During the year, it was reported to Three firms participated in the process, the Audit Committee that the quality Reviewed the qualifications, expertise, which included an Expression of Interest, of internal control in the businesses resources and independence of Request for Proposal and a presentation acquired in 2015 had not yet reached the external auditor, and assessed followed by a question and answer session.
the expectations previously set by the their performance The firms were given the opportunity to Company.
The audit reports produced by meet with management across the Reviewed proposals for the Group Assurance showed that, while business enabling a detailed proposal engagement of the external progress has been made, there are still document to be prepared by each firm, auditor for non-audit services, and further improvements required in these incorporating an audit and transition plan, confirmed that their independence businesses to ensure the standards are fully team structure, approach to working with was safeguarded aligned with the rest of the Company.
The management, independence assessment Group Finance Director assured the Audit and details of the firms credentials, 62 DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM team experience and cost proposals.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding Non-audit services policy Detailed evaluation criteria and a scoring the independence of the external The importance of maintaining the matrix were used to assist the Audit auditor during 2016, the Audit objectivity and independence of the Committee in making its decision, Committee reviewed: external auditor, by minimising its which included input from all Changes in senior audit personnel involvement in projects of a non-audit management meetings.
in the audit plan for the current year nature, is of fundamental concern to the Audit Committee.
It is, however, also A report from the external auditor Following the conclusion of the formal acknowledged that, due to its detailed describing the arrangements to tender process in November, the Board understanding of the Companys business, identify, report and manage any announced its intention to recommend it may sometimes be necessary to involve conflicts of interest to shareholders, for approval at the the external auditor in non-audit related 2017 AGM, the appointment of The extent of non-audit services work, principally comprising further  as the provided by the external auditor assurance services relating to due diligence Groups external auditor for the year and other duties carried out in respect of To assess the effectiveness of the external ending 31 December 2017. acquisitions, disposals, tax services, and auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: other services.
The Audit Committee has The external auditors fulfilment of the The tender was carried out in compliance adopted a policy in relation to the agreed audit plan and variations with The Statutory Audit Services for engagement of the external auditor to therefrom, and reports highlighting Large Companies Market Investigation supply non-audit services, with defined the major issues that arose during the Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender parameters and approval requirements in course of the audit Processes and Audit Committee relation to any such appointments.
Responsibilities Order 2014 effective Feedback from the businesses, 1 January 2015, as issued by the evaluating the performance of Details of the fees paid to KPMG LLP Competition & Markets Authority each audit team during the year can be found in note 2 in the UK.
to the Financial Statements on page 104.
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Financial Statements.
The external auditor provides the Audit The audit includes the review and test of Committee with relevant reports, reviews, the system of internal financial control information and advice throughout the and the data contained in the Financial year, as set out in the terms of their Statements, to the extent necessary for engagement.
Their performance was expressing an audit opinion on the truth formally assessed by the Audit Committee and fairness of the Financial Statements.
in conjunction with the executive management team, and the Audit Committee is satisfied that the external auditor remained effective and provided appropriate independent challenge of the Companys management.
In making its assessment of the external auditor, the Audit Committee had due regard to their expertise, resourcing and independence.
The Audit Committee has been kept up-to-date with the development of new EU-wide regulations concerning audit tenure and the longevity of audit firm relationships with companies they audit.
