DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board membership and Given the succession and transition Board composition and independence meeting attendance processes associated with the As at the date of this report, the Board Board Chairman: Paul Lester appointment of Paul Lester as Chairman has eight members, comprising a with effect from April 2016, and of Paul Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Forman as Chief Executive with effect Directors, and four Non-Executive Directors.
Paul Lester 8 8 from 1 January 2017, the Board concluded The names of the Directors serving during Colin Day 8 8 that its future needs would be best served the year and at the date of this report are by delaying a Board evaluation until set out below.
The Board is currently Stefan Schellinger 8 8 undertaking a review process in Paul Lester Non-Executive Chairman conjunction with an external facilitator, Tommy Breen 8 8 Paul Forman Chief Executive, Linstock.
The evaluation process has a Peter Hill 8 8 appointed 1 January 2017 clear focus on identifying areas where the Lorraine Trainer 8 8 Terry Twigger Senior Independent Board can improve its performance to Non-Executive Director support the new strategic objectives being Jeff Harris 2 2 developed by the new Chief Executive.
Tommy Breen Non-Executive Director Figures in brackets denote the maximum Peter Hill Non-Executive Director There is no related party connection with number of meetings that could have Lorraine Non-Executive Director Linstock, and this assignment is being been attended.
Trainer undertaken on an arms' length basis.
Stefan Executive Director The Essentra Board is accountable to Schellinger The Company applies the Codes all the Companys stakeholders for the principles of openness, integrity and Colin Day Executive Director standards of governance which are accountability through its own behaviour, maintained across Essentras diverse Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman corporate governance best practice range of global businesses.
retired 20 April 2016 and by adopting, as appropriate and proportionate for a company of the size During the year, Essentra was and continues and nature of Essentra, recommendations to be subject to the UK Corporate of relevant professional bodies.
Governance Code the Code 2014 published by the Financial Reporting Council, The Board is collectively responsible for a copy of which can be found on its the long-term success of the Company, website www.
and its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent The Board has reviewed its operations and and effective controls, which enables risk governance framework and confirms that, to be assessed and managed in the pursuit as at the date of this report, the Company of the Companys strategic objectives.
has complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, except for B.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board believes that it and its Chairman In assessing independence, the Board Committees have the appropriate Leads the Board considers that the Chairman and composition to discharge their respective Non-Executive Directors are independent Ensures effective communication duties effectively with the appropriate level of management and free from business with shareholders of challenge and level of independence, and other relationships which could and that the members of the Board in Ensures effective communication interfere with the exercise of independent conjunction with the senior executive flows between Directors judgement now and in the future.
The teams are well equipped to drive, and Board believes that any shareholdings Facilitates the effective are capable of delivering, the Companys of the Chairman and Non-Executive communication of all Directors strategic objectives.
The Board is of the Directors serve to align their interests view that it has a highly competent with those of the shareholders.
Chairman who, together with each Chief Executive of the other Non-Executive Directors, Implements strategy The Board considers that the has considerable international experience Non-Executive Directors provide an Develops manageable goals at a senior level in the management of independent view in Board discussions and priorities activities broadly similar to those carried and in the development of the Companys out by Essentra and the material issues Leads and motivates the strategy.
Non-Executive Directors also likely to arise for the Group.
management teams ensure a sound basis for good corporate governance for the Company, challenging Develops proposals to present The roles of the Chairman and the Chief managements performance and, in to the Board on all areas reserved Executive are separately held and are so conjunction with the Executive Directors, for its judgement defined as to ensure a clear separation of ensuring that rigorous financial controls responsibilities.
Details are available on the and systems of risk management are Companys website www.
Company Secretary maintained as appropriate to the needs The Chairman leads the Board and ensures The Company Secretary maintains a of the businesses within Essentra.
its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive is record of attendance at Board meetings responsible for the executive management and Committee meetings.
The Company The Board is content that the and performance of Essentras operations.
Secretarys other responsibilities include Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient Together with the primary responsibilities ensuring good information flows to time to the business of Essentra.
of the Senior Independent SI the Board and its Committees, and Non-Executive Director, the other between senior management and the Executive Directors may accept Non-Executive Directors and the clear Non-Executive Directors, advising the outside appointments, provided that definition of reserved matters and Board on all legal and corporate such appointments do not in any way delegated authorities, there is a system governance matters, and assisting the prejudice the ability to perform their which exists of checks and balances in Chairman in ensuring that the Directors duties on behalf of Essentra.
which no individual has unfettered have suitably tailored and detailed decision-making power.
induction and ongoing professional Paul Forman, Chief Executive, currently development programmes.
holds one external non-executive position, but the Board is of the view that this is The Board maintains that, for the not detrimental to the performance of his year ended 31 December 2016, the duties given the time requirements involved.
Non-Executive Directors were each considered to be independent.
During 2016, Colin Day held three external non-executive positions.
Colin Day stepped down as Chief Executive on 31 December 2016 to focus on his external appointments, and he will retire from the Company and the Board with effect from the close of the 2017 AGM.
52 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM The letters of appointment for During 2016, the Board was closely and seeking assurance as to compliance Non-Executive Directors are available for engaged in the detailed monitoring of with the controls within this framework.
review at the Companys registered performance and the actions necessary However, the Board as a whole maintains office and prior to the AGM.
to maintain the balanced, profitable oversight of such important matters and, growth of the Company in accordance after each Committee meeting, the The Companys Articles of Association with its strategic objectives, details of Chairman of the Audit Committee reports require that all new Directors seek election which can be found on the Companys on the matters which have been reviewed.
to the Board at the AGM following their website www.
In addition, the Board has Other specific responsibilities are agreed that, in compliance with the Code, Boards and Committees delegated to the Nomination and all eligible Directors will put themselves During the year, there were eight Remuneration Committees.
These forward for re-election on an annual basis.
In addition to Committees report as appropriate to The Board is satisfied that each of the these scheduled formal meetings, the the Board.
Each of the Committees has Directors being put forward for re-election Board met on a number of other occasions terms of reference approved by the Board, at the AGM continues to be effective and as required and, in particular, reviewed in copies of which are available on the that their ongoing commitment to the detail the ongoing performance reports Companys website www.
or on request from the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
The conduct of Board matters The Chairman and Chief Executive In managing the affairs of the Company, maintain regular contact with the Operational matters and the responsibility the Board has adopted a schedule of Directors, and the Chairman also holds as for the day-to-day management of the reserved matters which are to be appropriate, from time to time, informal businesses are delegated to the Chief reviewed annually including: discussions with Non-Executive Directors Executive, supported by members of senior Strategy and resources individually or collectively without any of executive management as appropriate, the Executive Directors being present, to within delegated authority limits and in Annual plan review performance, discuss succession accordance with clearly defined systems Treasury policies issues, to monitor corporate control of internal control.
mechanisms and to discuss any other Major capital and operating material matters relevant to the Board.
The Board was supported during the year expenditure proposals by the GMC, which ensures a strong link Major acquisitions and disposals The Chairman, in conjunction with the between Essentras overall corporate Company Secretary & General Counsel, strategy and its implementation within Debt facilities sets the programme for the Board during an effective internal control environment.
Key Group policies the year.
The Board considers reports from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance The GMC, which provides general Appointments to the Board Director covering operational, financial executive management of the Company Systems of internal control performance and other significant within agreed delegated authority limits business issues together with regular determined by the Board, consists of Dividend payments updates on any material issues which may senior executive management, and Categories of public announcements impact the Group.
Board meetings are the regional and SBU heads.
structured to allow open discussion, and all Directors participate in determining the The detailed implementation of all Groups strategy and regularly reviewing these, and general operational matters, the trading and financial performance are the responsibility of executive senior of the Company.
management and regular formal reports are provided to the Board.
Committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance structure, and the Board looks to the Audit Committee in particular to undertake the majority of the work involved in monitoring 53 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Engagement with management Conflict of interests Since joining the Board as a Non-Executive The Board received detailed presentations Directors have a statutory duty to Director on 23 December 2015, Paul Lester from senior management across a range avoid actual or potential conflicts of has embarked on a comprehensive of businesses within the Company during interest.
The Companys Articles of induction programme to the Essentra the course of the year, in addition to Association permit the Board to consider Group, which has involved him visiting reviewing the strategic plans and budgets and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations a number of sites, both in the UK and of the Company.
The Board also where a Director has an interest that overseas.
Paul has also engaged with considers reports from senior functional conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the senior management team on a management about matters of material the interests of the Company.
In addition, regular basis, in order to gain a better importance to the Company which arise the Company has a Conflict of Interests understanding of the Group and the from time to time.
policy governing the responsibilities of key challenges surrounding its future Directors in such situations.
There is a programme of meetings, both to authorise a conflict of interest can only formal and informal, with members of be made by non-conflicted Directors ie, All Directors have access to the advice the senior executive management, and the those who have no interest in the matter and services of the Company Secretary Board has the opportunity to engage with being considered and, in making such a & General Counsel, who is responsible to local management during site visits.
The decision, the Directors must act honestly the Chairman for ensuring that Board Board derives a better understanding of and in good faith when giving procedures are complied with, and that the Companys operations and business authorisation where they think this is applicable rules and regulations are model as a result of such contact.
appropriate, and will be most likely to followed.
During the year under review, promote the Companys success.
The the Company Secretary & General Applying Essentras Corporate Company Secretary & General Counsel Counsels advice was sought in relation to Responsibility principles maintains a register of Directors interests share dealings.
In the furtherance of their The Chief Executive is the Director so that any potential concerns are duties, there are agreed procedures for the with primary responsibility for the addressed before any material concerns Directors to take independent professional implementation and integration of may arise.
During the course of the advice, if necessary, at the Companys Essentras Corporate Responsibility year, there were no material conflicts expense.
No Director took independent principles across the Company.
During of interest impacting on the conduct professional advice during the year.
2016, the Group Human Resources of the Boards activities.
Director, supported by the Company Shareholder communications Secretary & General Counsel, was Information and The Board recognises the importance responsible for co-ordinating the operation professional development of effective communication, and seeks of detailed policies on health and safety, The Chairman, supported by the to maintain open and transparent ethics and the environment which support Company Secretary & General Counsel, relationships with its shareholders and Essentras commitment to its Corporate takes responsibility for ensuring that the other stakeholders, including providers of Responsibility principles.
Further details Directors receive accurate, timely and finance, customers and suppliers.
This is of these policies can be viewed in the clear information.
achieved by regular updates through Corporate Responsibility report on public announcements, the corporate page 38 and on the Companys website On appointment, an induction website and other published material.
programme tailored to their individual needs is available to Directors, and All shareholders have the opportunity to is designed to assist them in their meet any of the Directors of the Company understanding of Essentra and its should they so wish.
Throughout a Directors meetings with shareholders is provided to tenure, they are encouraged to develop the Board so they are aware of any issues their knowledge of the Group through or concerns, and ensures that the Board meetings with senior management and has a balanced view from the major site visits.
Directors are also provided with investors.
Additionally, the Board uses updates, as appropriate, on matters such the AGM as an occasion to communicate as fiduciary duties, Companies Act with all shareholders, including private requirements, share dealing restrictions investors, who are provided with the and corporate governance matters.
54 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM opportunity to question the Directors.
Financial reporting Overseeing the effectiveness of the At the AGM, the level of proxy votes lodged The Directors have acknowledged, in the system has been delegated to the Audit on each resolution is made available, both Statement of Directors Responsibilities Committee, which assesses the quality of at the meeting and subsequently on the set out on page 87, their responsibility for the control environment when monitoring Companys website.
Each substantially preparing the Financial Statements of the and reviewing the integrity of the Groups separate issue is presented as a separate Company and the Group.
The Directors Financial Statements, and any significant resolution, and the Chairmen of the are responsible for preparing the Annual judgements that were made in their Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Report and Accounts, and they consider preparation.
Essentras internal controls Committees are available to answer that the Annual Report and Accounts are designed to safeguard the Companys questions from shareholders.
taken as a whole are fair, balanced and assets, and to ensure the integrity and understandable.
The external auditor reliability of information used both The Company also communicates has included a statement about their within the businesses and for public regularly with its major institutional reporting responsibilities in the announcements.
The Board has overall shareholders and ensures that all the Independent Auditors Report, set responsibility for the Companys system Directors, including the Non-Executive out on pages 146 to 150. of internal control and risk management, Directors, have an understanding of and for reviewing the effectiveness of the views and concerns of major The Directors are also responsible for this system.
Such a system can only be shareholders, and are able to explain the publication of Half Year Results, designed to mitigate, rather than business developments and financial as required by the Disclosure and eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve results as appropriate.
The Chief Executive, Transparency Rules of the Financial business objectives, and can therefore Group Finance Director and Corporate Conduct Authority.
This provides a general only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Affairs Director have primary responsibility description of the financial position and assurance against material misstatement for investor relations.
Presentations for performance of the Company and the or loss.
analysts and shareholders were held Group during the relevant period.
during the year, and meetings were also The following procedures are in place undertaken with key institutional investors Directors and Officers insurance which enable the Board to review the to discuss strategy, financial performance In accordance with the Companys effectiveness of the system of and investment activities.
Slide Articles of Association, and to the extent internal control: presentations are made immediately permitted by the laws of England and The Audit Committee meets available after the full and half-year Wales, the Directors are granted an regularly and reviews the effectiveness results, and are also available on the indemnity from the Company in respect of the internal control environment Companys website to view and download.
of those liabilities incurred as a result of of the Group The Company ensures that any pricetheir office.
In respect of those matters The Audit Committee is supported by sensitive information is released to all for which the Directors may not be the Group Assurance function, which shareholders at the same time, in indemnified, the Company maintained a undertakes extensive internal audit accordance with regulatory requirements.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance responsibilities across the Group.
Risk policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated management reports are presented Board roles this policy will be renewed.
Neither the which detail an analysis of the key The SI Non-Executive Director, currently Companys indemnity, nor the insurance risks at a Group level, summarise Terry Twigger, can be contacted via the provides cover, to the extent that a developments potentially impacting Companys registered office.
In that role, Director is proven to have acted the Group from a risk, governance or he is available to shareholders to discuss dishonestly or fraudulently.
compliance perspective and propose and develop an understanding of their actions for the Company in response issues and any concerns which cannot be Internal controls to such developments resolved by discussions with the Chairman, In accordance with the Code, the Board the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, acknowledges its overall responsibility to The Board has the opportunity to or where such contact is inappropriate.
shareholders to ensure that an adequate review the internal control environment system of risk management and internal at local sites when Board meetings control is in place.
This is essential for are held away from the Companys reliable financial reporting and also for head office the effective management of the Group.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Every month, each region and SBU Control of significant risks The respective risk committees met on a submits detailed operating and The Boards responsibility for risk and risk regular basis during the year and reported financial reports covering all aspects management in Essentra encompasses: to the Board or Audit Committee, as of performance.
These are reviewed Determining the Companys approach appropriate, on the Companys within the Groups central finance to risk identification and mitigation of risk within function, and summary reports are the parameters established by the Board.
Setting and instilling the appropriate communicated to the GMC and culture throughout the Company the Board The Board has carried out a robust Identifying the risks inherent in assessment of the principal risks facing the Certificates are required from the the Companys business model Company.
Descriptions of those risks and businesses to confirm compliance with and strategy, including risks from explanations of the Companys approach the Groups policies and procedures external factors to risk management are detailed at pages Self-certification is required 31 to 37 of the report.
An ongoing process Monitoring the Companys exposure from all businesses, at both the for identifying, evaluating and managing to risk and the key risks that could half year and year end, to confirm principal risks faced by the Company was undermine its strategy, reputation compliance with Group financial in place throughout 2016, and up to the or long-term viability policies and procedures date of approval of the 2016 Annual Providing an effective oversight of Report.
This process has been reviewed Policies and procedures, which are subject the risk management processes in by the Audit Committee and is assessed to ongoing review and updated as required the Company routinely, to ensure that the system of in response to strategic, operational, internal control and risk management business, legal or regulatory Ensuring the Company has effective remains fit for purpose.
developments, with the approval of the crisis management systems Board or its respective Committees as A Group risk framework is in place Notwithstanding the operational appropriate, are communicated across which supports the Board in fulfilling these processes which were in place, and the Group.
Essentras internal controls responsibilities and serves to reinforce the designed to mitigate potential issues, are designed to ensure significant risks, risk review processes embedded within the Company acknowledges that there investment decisions and management the businesses.
was a failure to successfully mitigate risks issues are identified, considered and identified with the integration of the escalated as necessary at the earliest The Audit Committee enhances the Health & Personal Care Packaging opportunity.
Regional Managing Directors quality of the Boards oversight of the business.
As such, the Board has requested and Presidents are responsible for ensuring risk management process within Essentra, a review of the Companys approach the communication of, and compliance but does not determine the Companys to risk mitigation and the processes with, Essentras internal controls across attitude and tolerance for risk.
necessary to deliver improvements in the their respective regions.
Companys identification, assessment and The risk management activities mitigation of risk.
The failure to address within the Company are supported the decline in Health & Personal Care by the Operational Risk Management Packaging has been identified by the Committee, which reports to the Audit Board as a principal risk facing the Company Committee through the Group Head and is addressed at page 32 of the report.
of Assurance, and the Executive Risk Management Committee which reports to the Board through the Chief Executive.
56 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Nomination Committee During the year, the Nomination Developed, in conjunction with Committee Chairman: Paul Lester Committee met four times to discuss external consultation, the key general succession planning for the Board requirements for the new and the appointment of a new appointments to the Board, Membership and attendance during the year Chief Executive.
and assessed the capabilities of potential candidates Paul Lester 4 4 The Nomination Committee, and the Non-Executive Chairman Made recommendations to the Board Board as a whole, supports the spirit for the appointment of Paul Forman Terry Twigger of the recommendations set out in the 4 4 as the new Chief Executive SI Non-Executive Director Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
Tommy Breen Securing the right combination of skills, The Nomination Committee was 4 4 Non-Executive Director experience and expertise allows the satisfied that the appointment of Paul Board to effectively lead the sustainable Forman will provide the Board and the Peter Hill 4 4 Non-Executive Director growth and success of the Company Group with the necessary skills and current for the benefit of all stakeholders.
experience relevant to the activities of Lorraine Trainer 4 4 The fundamental objective must be to the Company and its future development.
Non-Executive Director ensure that the best people are appointed The biography of Paul Forman is available 1 Jeff Harris 0 0 to do the best job for Essentra, taking into on pages 46.
Non-Executive Chairman consideration other factors, such as market and international experience, Zygos was engaged to assist the 1 Jeff Harris was a member of the Committee and diversity of thought and background.
Nomination Committees review and up to his date of retirement in April 2016.
During this time there were no Nomination Appointing people on merit, without any evaluation of potential candidates for Committee meetings form of discrimination, is a key component the role of Chief Executive.
of Essentra policies across all its Figures in brackets denote the maximum international operations at all levels.
Korn Ferry was engaged to assist the number of meetings that could have Nomination Committee in the potential been attended.
Nomination Committee 2016 recruitment of additional Non-Executive key activities Directors as part of the succession The Company Secretary & General Reviewed the composition and planning activities.
Counsel acts as Secretary to the structure of the Companys Board Nomination Committee.
and the Committees There is no related party connection with Zygos or Korn Ferry, and their respective Reviewed the succession planning Other attendees assignments were undertaken on an for the Board and senior executives, The Chief Executive and the Group Human arms' length basis.
and in doing so considered diversity, Resources Director attended by invitation experience, knowledge and skills as appropriate.
Reviewed the capabilities of external The Nomination Committee is responsible consultants to assist the Committee for selecting and recommending in the search for, and evaluation and candidates for appointment as Executive appointment of, new individuals to and as Non-Executive Directors of the the Board and its Committees Company.
In the furtherance of these duties, and when considering succession planning, the Nomination Committee looks at the balance, structure and composition of the Board and takes into account the future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
