Board Committees Audit Committee Directors attendance Meetings Possible Director attended attendance Shirley Garrood Chairman 5 5 1 Martin Pike 4 4 2 Anne Richards 1 1 Peter Ward 4 5 1.
Martin Pike was appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 March 2016.
Anne Richards left the Company on 25 February 2016.
Alan Rubenstein was appointed as a member of the Committee on 8 March 2017.
Shirley Garrood Chairman of the Audit Committee Composition and Meetings Responsibilities The Audit Committee currently has four members.
Further The key responsibilities of the Committee are to assist the biographical details regarding the members of the Audit Board in discharging its duties in respect of: Committee can be found on pages 32 and 33.
All four members of the Audit Committee have extensive commercial agreeing the scope of the external audit, receiving and experience and therefore satisfy the requirements of the reviewing reports from the Groups external auditor, Code.
The Board has determined that Shirley Garrood, the monitoring its effectiveness and independence, and Chairman of the Committee, is the Committees designated making recommendations to the Board in respect of its financial expert.
remuneration, appointment and dismissal: monitoring and reviewing Internal Audit activities: In the year under review, the Committee held five approving the annual audit plan: scheduled meetings, details of the attendances at these reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group meetings are set out in the table above.
and other announcements relating to its financial performance: To discharge its functions effectively, the Audit Committee reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of has unrestricted access to the Groups external and internal internal controls: and auditors, with whom it also meets without the Executive reviewing the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
These meetings ensure that there are no restrictions on the scope of their audits, and allow The Committee is authorised to investigate any activity discussions on any matters that the auditors might not within its Terms of Reference and to seek any information wish to raise in the presence of management.
During 2016 that it requires from any employee.
It has the right to three such meetings were held.
consult professional advisors and, if it is not satisfied with the advice received, seek further independent professional The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Finance advice.
The Committees Chairman formally reports to the Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Operating Officer Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
and the Company Secretary, along with the external and internal auditors, are invited to attend meetings of the Terms of Reference Committee.
Other members of senior management are The Audit Committees Terms of Reference can be viewed on invited to present reports as necessary to enable the our website at www.
com , Committee to undertake its duties.
These were last updated on 8 March 2017.
The Audit Committee and the Risk Committee have cross-membership.
This has permitted both Committees to ensure that their Terms of Reference remain appropriate to deliver coverage of both the internal control and risk management framework of the Group.
40 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Audit Committee Section Overview of the actions taken by the Audit The Committee challenged and debated the process, Committee to undertake its duties.
key judgements and assumptions supporting the internal In undertaking its responsibilities, the Committee actuarys best estimate projection, including a range of concentrated on five main areas.
sensitivities and possible alternative scenarios and explanations for differences compared with the 1 Financial reporting projections undertaken by the external actuary.
With support and input from the external auditor, the Committee has challenged and reviewed the The Committee noted the inherent uncertainties associated financial reporting for the Group, and assessed with reserving for certain types of claim.
Factors such as whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, changes in the legal environment, results of litigation, whether management has made appropriate estimates propensity of personal injury claims, changes in medical and judgements and whether disclosures in this Annual and care costs, and costs of vehicle and home repairs can all Report for the Group are fair, balanced and understandable.
substantially affect overall costs and expenses of claims, and In the current year the treatment of the Demerger of cause a material divergence from the basis and assumptions Gocompare.
com plc has been an additional matter for the on which the reserves were calculated.
During the year, the Committee gave specific consideration The Committee has taken an active role in the Groups to the Groups approach to reserving for claims subject to final preparations for Solvency II reporting.
As part of periodic payment orders PPOs and large bodily injury this the Committee has considered and reviewed solvency claims as part of a wider development of the process and disclosures included for the first time in the Annual Report.
models used for claims outstanding.
The factors on which The Committee will also review this year the publicly the Committee focused included the changes seen over disclosed returns required under Solvency II including the recent years in the Office of National Statistics Annual Solvency and Financial Condition Report SFCR and the Survey of Hours and Earnings figures, the split between reporting to the PRA in the Regulatory Supervisory Report upfront lump sums and the PPO and PPO propensity and the RSR and new Quantitative Reporting Templates QRTs Ogden rate.
Whilst PPOs are individually large the Group associated with these reports and will recommend these controls its net exposure through its reinsurance policies.
returns to the Board and to esure Insurance Limited for review and final approval.
On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor changed the Ogden discount rate from plus 2.5% to minus 0.75% The Groups control environment underpins the integrity effective 20 March 2017.
As at 31 December 2016 the of the financial statements.
The Committee has considered Groups reserve margin included an allowance for a change reports from the Chief Risk Officer, Internal Audit function in the Ogden discount rate to 0%.
To assess the impact on and external auditor to satisfy itself that the control the financial statements of the announced rate being lower environment supporting the financial statements is than the Group had allowed for, the Committee considered properly designed and operating effectively.
managements analysis and reviews conducted by the external auditor and the external actuary.
The Committee Significant financial judgements and financial reporting concurred with managements assessment that the impact for 2016 on profit after tax is immaterial.
Refer to note 31 to the As part of its work in the year, the Audit Committee, on consolidated financial statements for further information.
behalf of the Board, has reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements, the Interim Report and financial Demerger of Gocompare.
com statements, and the Groups significant annual regulatory The Committee was involved throughout the process returns.
In doing this, the Audit Committee has considered for the Groups Demerger of Gocompare.
various issues and discussed how these are addressed: Once the transaction was complete the Committee debated and questioned managements approach to the Demerger Claims outstanding accounting, disclosure and regulatory reporting.
This After discussion with management and the external included, but was not limited to the proposed accounting auditor, the Committee determined that the most treatment and disclosure and review of the narrative significant judgement relating to the Groups financial disclosure included in note 12. statements continues to be the estimation of claims outstanding, which comprise provisions for the cost of Other matters settling all claims incurred but not settled at the balance The Committee also considered a number of less significant sheet date, whether reported or not, and including related matters, including new accounting standards which may reinsurance recoveries and claims handling expenses.
The impact the Group in the next few years, the classification Groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions to meet all of and accounting for investments classified as available liabilities as they fall due, inclusive of a margin, by reference for sale and the accounting treatment of the share-based to the Board-approved risk appetite.
Whilst considering this payment schemes after the Demerger of Gocompare.
issue, the Committee received reports and presentations from the internal and external actuary Willis Towers The Group has in place arrangements to ensure that the Watson, with the results of the external actuary being Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and considered as part of the second line of defence.
The understandable and provides shareholders with the Committee also meets with the Chief Actuary at least once information necessary to assess the Groups position and a year without management present.
Two such meetings performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee were held in 2016. examined the 2016 Annual Report and was specifically tasked by the Board to review the viability statement and to advise on whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 41 Audit Committee Section continued The Committee questioned and provided comments Regulatory a review of the Groups regulatory to those charged with governance and oversight of the compliance framework adequacy to ensure that it is fully drafting and production of the Annual Report, including compliant with the Senior Insurance Managers Regime the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and Chief SIMR : and Risk Officer.
The Committee focused on the overall tone Internal Audit also followed up and reported to the and messages conveyed by the report and consistency with Committee on all outstanding actions from previous internal reports and information presented to the Committee internal audits.
throughout the year, drawing together information from the independent external auditor, internal audit reports and These key risk areas have also been reflected in the information provided by those charged with governance.
principal risks considered both by management, as We continued to challenge this year, for example around discussed on page 25 to 27, and KPMG in their role as PPOs as noted above, in light of increasing levels of external auditors as highlighted on page 74. regulation and evolving best practice.
3 Effectiveness of Internal Audit Following full consideration of all available information, The Audit Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its including discussion and debate with both management and responsibilities to review the activities, resources, the external auditor, the Committee concluded that it could organisational structure and the operational effectiveness recommend to the Board that the 2016 Annual Report and of the internal audit activities.
Following discussion with the financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Committee Chairman, Mazars LLP presents its internal audit plans for approval to the Committee before the start The Committee reviewed the Whistleblowing Policy and of each year and provides an update and further plans ensured any concerns raised were properly investigated.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit work plans during the year and concluded that it was satisfied 2 Internal controls and key risks with the plans and that they were addressing the key risks.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee received reports from the Chief Risk Officer and Internal Audit.
The Internal As part of the annual review referenced above, and Audit function is fulfilled by a third-party organisation, considering managements opinion, the Committee was Mazars LLP, which has fulfilled this function since 2010. satisfied that the Internal Audit function remains effective During 2016, in line with best practice, the approach taken and fit for purpose.
The Internal Audit Charter can be by Mazars has been refreshed with the appointment of a viewed on our website at www.
com corporatenew lead partner with 14 years experience of delivering information.
These were last updated on 18 May 2016. internal audit to insurance companies.
4 Effectiveness and independence of the external auditor The Committee challenged the Executive team on the The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship content and reliability of those reports and the Committee with the external auditor and formally reviews the has been satisfied that appropriate arrangements, actions relationship, policies and procedures to ensure or mitigating controls are in place in response to Internal independence.
The Groups policy on the provision of Audit and the Chief Risk Officers findings.
No significant non-audit services is reviewed regularly to ensure that the failings or weaknesses were identified.
independence and objectivity of our external auditor is maintained.
It sets out the categories of non-audit services This year, the Committee reviewed all internal audits: of which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to these, the most significant internal audits addressing key provide to the Group.
The policy states that our external risk areas during the year were: auditor may only be used for non-audit work where specific services have been approved by the policy.
This policy has IT Infrastructure Transformation Ongoing analysis been updated in light of the new regulations issued as part and assessment of the processes, governance and risk of the European Audit Reforms: which, for Public Interest management activities relating to the project and its key Entities including the Group, not only cap non-audit fees to risks.
Work related to the implementation testing phase 70% of the average Group statutory audit fees over the of the project and the initial post-implementation previous three years but also further restrict the types of activities undertaken following the successful completion work which can be performed by the auditors and came of the project during Q2 2016: into full force from June 2016.
Notwithstanding the change Cyber an assessment of the adequacy of training and in policy there may still be occasions when the external awareness of cyber-crime prevention within esure auditor is best placed to undertake other accounting, Group, and a review of the adequacy and effectiveness advisory and consultancy work on behalf of the Group.
of the supplier relationship management framework, with a specific focus on the management and storage of The Groups policy on non-audit work was updated on confidential client or employee data by key suppliers: 7 December 2016 and can be found on the Groups website Claims an assessment of the adequacy and at http: www.
com  effectiveness of the general controls within the claims corporate-governance.
handling process, focusing on the key risks and examining the design and operating effectiveness of the The Committee receives reports twice a year detailing controls in place: the fees paid to the external auditor for the provision of Underwriting & Pricing a review of the processes, non-audit services.
Non-audit fees paid to the external procedures and controls in place for pricing and rate auditor in 2016 were 1.6m, including 1.4m related to the setting.
Controls and procedures for updating Groups Demerger of Gocompare.
com Group plc, 0.1m for underwriting rules and assumptions were also reviewed: tax advice and compliance services and 0.1m relating to Compliance an assessment of the adequacy of the the interim review.
arrangements in place for the compliance function, in particular its effectiveness as well as its governance structure.
Emphasis was also placed on assessing the functions management of regulatory and conduct risks through Quality Assurance, compliance monitoring and other key controls: 42 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials For the purposes of evaluating the independence of the KPMG have acted as auditors to the Group since 2000.
As external auditor, the Committee has excluded the interim the Groups listing was in 2013 the transitional rules under review fee and the Solvency II audit fee as these fees are the EU legislation give the Group the option to delay the classified as audit-related but are required by legislation.
tender process until 2023 after which the Group will be Excluding the interim review fees, and Solvency II audit required to undertake a formal tender process at least fees, non-audit fees paid to KPMG were 581% of external every ten years.
In addition under these regulations, the audit fees in the year.
Non-audit fees were principally Senior Engagement Partner is required to rotate every related to the reporting accountant role for the Groups five years.
However, it is the Groups intention to put the Demerger of Gocompare.
com Group plc and related work External Audit Services Contract out to tender at the end including tax advice specific to the Demerger and a review of the current audit engagement partners rotation in 2019. of the accounting treatment proposed by management.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of appointing 5 Audit Committee effectiveness KPMG for this work including the challenge this could give During the year, the Committee undertook an internal to KPMGs independence and assessed the steps taken by evaluation of its effectiveness and the results were KPMG to ensure the continuing independence of the audit discussed at the Board meeting in December 2016, partner and audit team.
The Committee concluded that concluding that the Committee was effective and there were significant benefits of using KPMG, including functioning well.
added efficiency from existing knowledge of the Group and tighter confidentiality by minimising the number of parties Conclusion involved.
The Committee also noted that it is customary As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has for the reporting accountant role to be performed by the concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of auditor for these reasons.
The Chairman of the Committee will be at the approved the use of KPMG to provide this advice.
This Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the resulted in a high ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees.
activities of the Committee from shareholders.
However, the Committee has noted that this level of fee is not material to KPMG, and is unlikely to recur.
When the On behalf of the Audit Committee.
fees for this work are excluded the value of non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees falls to 34%.
Shirley Garrood Chairman of the Audit Committee A full breakdown of non-audit fees paid during the year is disclosed within the Notes to the financial statements on page 94.
The Committee decided that no conflicts of interest were found to exist between the work performed for the purpose of an external audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG.
The Committee welcomes KPMGs policy of audit partner rotation every five years, which facilitates independence and objectivity within the external audit team.
The current external audit engagement partner is Philip Smart, who was appointed to lead the audit in 2015 following the rotation of the previous audit partner after completing five years on the engagement.
Philip Smart is supported by Timothy Butchart.
The Committee is satisfied with the performance and effectiveness of KPMG and has concluded that KPMG continues to display the necessary attributes of independence and objectivity.
The Committee considers the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the appropriateness of tendering the external audit contract as part of normal business practice.
Based on its ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of the external auditors report to the Committee, the audit partners interaction with the Committee and the rotation of the engagement partner, and the findings of the AQR review on our 2013 Audit, the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
The Committee therefore has not considered it necessary to require the audit to be put out to tender this year.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 43
