Board Committees Nomination Committee Directors attendance Meetings Possible Director attended attendance Sir Peter Wood Chairman 2 2 Mara Dolores Dancausa 2 2 Shirley Garrood 2 2 Peter Ward 2 2 Alan Rubenstein was appointed as a member of the Committee on 8 March 2017 Sir Peter Wood Chairman of the Nomination Committee Composition Meetings The Nomination Committee is currently comprised of the The Committee meets at least twice a year, or more Chairman and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Two members, both of whom Sir Peter Wood, the Chairman of the Board, chairs the must be independent Non-Executive Directors, constitute Committee, except when the matters under consideration a quorum.
Other regular attendees at Committee relate to him or succession to his role.
The members of the meetings include the Chief Executive Officer and Committee and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2016 the Company Secretary.
are set out in the table above.
The Board considers that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant Committee changes experience see biographies on pages 32 and 33.
The Committee kept the membership of the Board Committees under review.
Following the Committees Responsibilities recommendations to the Board: The responsibilities of the Committee include reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and Peter Shaw was appointed to the Board on 8 March 2017 ensuring that the Board comprises the right balance of and was also appointed as a member of the Risk and skills, knowledge and experience.
The Committee considers Remuneration Committees.
the composition of Non-Executive Directors on Committees.
Alan Rubenstein was appointed to the Board on 8 March The Committee oversees the search and selection for new 2017 and was also appointed as a member of the Audit Directors and succession planning for Directors and senior and Nomination Committees.
The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
Terms of Reference The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference can be Key activities viewed on our website at www.
com corporateThe activities of the Nomination Committee during 2016 information corporate-governance nomination-committee.
included succession planning for Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and the Executive team and composition of the Board Committees.
As part of our succession planning, the Committee commenced a search for two new Non-Executive Directors.
Sam Allen Associates were appointed to carry out the search.
The list of candidates researched by Sam Allen Associates were reviewed.
The list profiled the candidates against key competencies and experience required.
Candidates were then selected for interview.
Shirley Garrood and Martin Pike met with the candidates and identified Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw as our preferred candidates.
Arrangements were then made for them to meet with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
They then met with other Board members.
Following these meetings, the Committee recommended Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw appointments to the Board.
The Board subsequently approved the appointments and they were appointed to the Board on 8 March 2017.
44 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
