Effectiveness The Board of Directors As the Chairman is also a controlling shareholder in the The Board currently comprises ten members: The Chairman, Group, a Relationship Agreement between Sir Peter Wood two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
and the Group is in place to ensure that the independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules are complied with.
Peter Ward has decided to step down as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting The Non-Executive Directors have a letter of appointment on 17 May 2017. that sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship, including the fees payable and the expected time The Chairman, Sir Peter Wood, has served in this role since commitment.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected 2000 and, on appointment, was not independent.
Of the to commit sufficient time, as is reasonably necessary, for seven Non-Executive Directors: the proper performance of his or her duties.
Additional time commitment is required to fulfil the roles of Deputy Shirley Garrood, Mara Dolores Dancausa, Martin Pike, Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee Angela Seymour-Jackson, Alan Rubenstein and Peter Chairman or Board Committee member.
Shaw are considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code Succession planning and Board appointments Peter Ward has served on the Board for more than nine The Nomination Committee has continued to work on years from the date of his first election, but is ensuring an appropriate mix among both the Executive considered by the Board to be independent for the and Non-Executive Directors.
It also kept under review the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, succession planning for Executive Directors, Non-Executive notwithstanding the length of his service.
Directors and other senior executives.
In reaching this conclusion regarding the independence In 2016 Anne Richards stepped down as a Non-Executive of Peter Ward, the Board has: Director and Peter Ward will step down as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting considered the requirements of the UK Corporate on 17 May 2017.
As part of the succession planning Governance Code and the nature of the relationships the Nomination Committee, having reviewed the skills and circumstances outlined above which are relevant required, recommended to the Board the appointment to the Boards determination of independence: and of Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw as Non-Executive evaluated the historic contribution of this Director Directors.
The Committee also recommended to the Board to the Group in scrutinising the performance of the appointments of Alan Rubenstein as a member of the management, monitoring the reporting of performance Audit and Nomination Committee and Peter Shaw as a and constructively challenging and assisting the member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
development of the Groups proposals on strategy.
The Board believes that it will continue to possess the The Group therefore considers that it complies with the relevant skills and competencies for the future under its relevant requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code succession plan.
in relation to the balance of Executive and independent NonExecutive Directors on the Board and with the requirements Board induction and professional development for composition of the Groups Audit, Remuneration and On joining the Board, Directors take part in an Nomination Committees.
induction programme to increase their knowledge and understanding of the Group.
In line with the normal Directors election and re-election process, Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw were provided At the Annual General Meeting in 2016, all continuing with information about the Group, the role of the Board Directors offered themselves for re-election.
Each Director and the matters reserved for its decision.
They were also was re-elected and no Director received less than 90% in provided with the Terms of Reference and membership favour of the votes cast.
At the Annual General Meeting of the main Board Committees, as well as corporate in 2017, all of the Directors will again retire and all will governance policies and procedures.
Meetings were held offer themselves for re-election, or in the case of newly with each of the Executive Directors, members of the Group appointed Directors, for election.
Executive and senior managers across the Group as part of the induction programme.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, together with details of their skills and experience, may be The induction programme also included: found on pages 32 and 33.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded that each Directors Company structure and strategy: performance continues to be effective and that the Directors Key people and succession plans: continue to demonstrate commitment to the role and, Board procedures including the governance framework, accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders Board calendar, minutes from previous meetings, approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 Annual effectiveness reviews and action plans: General Meeting relating to the re-election or election of Finances, performance, operating plans, operational the Directors.
overview of all business areas: Group risk profile and our approach to risk: Executive Directors service contracts and Insight into key internal audits and areas of focus: and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment Share register and voting history and an overview of our The Chairman and each of the Executive Directors have Remuneration Policy.
a service contract with the Group.
The service contracts of the Chairman and the Executive Directors can be terminated by not less than 12 months notice by the Chairman or the Executive Director as appropriate and 12 months notice by the Group.
38 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Evaluation of Board performance Substantial shareholdings The assessment of the Board was conducted in The holdings of our major shareholders can be found in the accordance with the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Directors Report on page 70.
As the 2015 review was conducted by an external facilitator, the 2016 review was undertaken Shareholder services internally by the Chairman and Company Secretary, using The share register is managed on the Groups behalf by comprehensive questionnaires.
Shareholders are able to carry out a number of online administrative transactions, such as checking their The evaluation was based around a number of key areas: holdings and dividend accounts, changing address details and arranging for dividends to be paid directly into a Board composition, role, skills, diversity, balance bank account.
Website Board leadership and culture.
com provides Agenda, information and papers.
a source of information for shareholders about the Strategic oversight.
Group and contains financial presentations and investor Governance, regulatory compliance and support: and publications, including the online Annual Report and recent Committee performance.
The Board also assessed its progress against the action Further information about our registrars, shareholder plan from the 2015 review, and concluded that good services, investor relations and our principal shareholders progress had been made against the plan.
can also be found on the website.
The final report on the Board and its Committees was Additional information presented and discussed with the whole Board at its The following information, which is required to be disclosed meeting in December 2016.
The Chairman met individually within the Corporate Governance Report, can be found in with each Director to discuss the findings.
The Senior the Directors Report and is incorporated by reference: Independent Director also met with the Directors to review the Chairmans performance.
This review was then shared Substantial shareholdings page 70. with the Chairman.
Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors Having gone through the effectiveness review, the page 68.
Directors are satisfied that the Board and each of its Purchase of own shares page 70.
The review has identified some actions that will help maintain and improve Annual General Meeting its effectiveness.
Areas for improvement included: more The Annual General Meeting AGM provides all shareholders contact with senior management below Group Executive with the opportunity to develop their understanding of the level and ensuring the Board and Committee papers are Groups strategy and operations, and to ask questions of the more concise.
full Board on the matters to be put to the meeting, including the Annual Report.
All Board members attend the AGM and, Overall the evaluation process confirmed that the Board was in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and operating effectively with a culture that supported open and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
challenging debate and that all Directors individually made valuable contributions and demonstrated commitment to All resolutions proposed at the 2016 AGM, which were the role.
considered on a poll, were passed with votes ranging from 80.67% to 100% of the total votes cast.
Shareholder engagement The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and the General Meeting Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman, as well A General Meeting was held on 1 November 2016 in respect as other senior executives, held meetings with a number of of the Demerger of the Gocompare.
com Group from the the Groups shareholders and prospective shareholders to esure Group.
Both resolutions proposed at the General discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance.
All Meeting, which were considered on a poll, were passed Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent with votes of 99.99% and 81.26% of the total votes count.
Director, have an invitation to attend investor meetings if they wish.
The Directors are provided with regular reports on shareholders and analysts views and of changes in the holdings of the principal shareholders.
During the year, the Chairman, Martin Pike, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and the Company Secretary had meetings with several of the Groups largest institutional shareholders to discuss our Demerger with Gocompare.
The Group has established procedures to ensure the timely release of inside information and the publication of financial results and regulatory financial statements.
The Disclosure Committee, a committee of senior executives and chaired by the Company Secretary, also reviews all significant announcements for accuracy and compliance requirements.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 39
