Leadership The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the esure Directors external activities and conflicts of interest Group and has overall authority for the management and Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in conduct of the Groups business, strategy and development.
which they have a direct or indirect conflict of interest The Board is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance or possible conflict of interest with the Company.
Under of a sound system of internal control and risk management the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has including financial, operational and compliance controls, and the authority to authorise such potential conflicts and for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place, there is a procedure in place to deal with any actual or and for the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate potential conflicts of interest.
Prior to taking on additional and management structure of the Group.
responsibilities or external appointments, Directors are obliged to obtain authorisation from the Chairman and it is To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to their responsibility to ensure that they will be able to meet ensure there is independent oversight of internal control the time commitment expected of them in their role at the and risk management, the Board has delegated certain Group.
Any potential conflicts approved by the Board are responsibilities to Board Committees, which, except for recorded in an Interests Register, and are noted by the the Nomination Committee, are comprised of independent Board at its next meeting.
The Nomination Committee is comprised of a majority of independent Non-Executive Executive Directors may take up one FTSE 100 nonDirectors.
The Chairman of each Board Committee reports executive directorship and are allowed to retain any fees to the Board on its proceedings after each Committee they receive for such appointment.
Stuart Vann and Darren meeting.
Each Board Committee has agreed Terms of Ogden do not hold any such directorships.
Reference approved by the Board.
On 1 March 2016, the Board agreed to redesignate the Investment Committee The Board of Directors as a Management Committee.
The Board comprises ten members: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision along with the Terms of Reference of the Boards key Directors Board attendance Committees are available to view online at www.
Name of Director attended attendance Sir Peter Wood Chairman 7 7 Board meetings The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout Stuart Vann Chief Executive the year.
Seven scheduled Board meetings were held in Officer 7 7 2016.
An annual strategy meeting was also held.
Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer 7 7 If unable to attend a meeting, Directors are encouraged to provide their views and comments to the Chairman on the Mara Dolores Dancausa 7 7 matters to be discussed so these can be shared with the Shirley Garrood 7 7 other Directors at the meeting.
Meeting attendance by the Directors is shown in the next column.
Martin Pike 7 7 Angela Seymour-Jackson 7 7 At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and 1 Chief Finance Officer reported on operational and Anne Richards 1 1 financial performance.
Anne Richards resigned on 25 February 2016.
Although we do not have a diversity policy, the Group is 2.
Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw were appointed on 8 March 2017. strongly committed to the merits of diversity at Board level and throughout the business.
We are committed to carrying Group Executive Committee out candidate searches across the widest possible pool of The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer talent against a set of objective criteria based on merit, are complemented by a strong and experienced Senior but with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including Management team.
The Group Executive Committee is gender.
Currently, 30% of the Board are female.
chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
Our Group Executive Committee has one woman on a Committee of five members 20%.
Of our senior managers, 33% 16 are female: this becomes 53.5% 15 for managers.
Our overall percentage of female staff is 51.5% 807.
We have signed up to the Women in Finance Charter.
We shall continue to develop the potential of women throughout the Group.
36 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Group Executive team The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are separate, with responsibilities clearly divided.
The Chairman The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
He promotes the highest standards of corporate governance and ensures effective communications with shareholders.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer support a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the Groups performance.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the performance and management of the Groups business.
In addition to membership of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer leads the Group Executive Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer team in running the business and is charged with recommending and then implementing the Boards strategy.
He is also responsible for ensuring effective internal controls and risk management systems are in place.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer meet regularly and keep in close contact as they are a critical link between the Board and senior management and liaise on strategic and other issues.
Non-Executive Directors David Pitt C hief Operating Officer The Non-Executive Directors bring a very broad level of experience and independent judgement to the Board and make a valuable contribution to achieving our objectives.
They provide a strong independent element on the Board and are well placed to challenge constructively and help formulate strategy.
Shirley Garrood is the Deputy Chairman and also the Senior Independent Director.
She supports the Chairman in his role and is also available as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
Company Secretary Helen Taylor HR & Professional Services Director The Company Secretary provides administrative and logistical support to the Board.
Advice and support are also given on governance, compliance and regulatory matters.
The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors and ensures that Board procedures are complied with.
The Directors may also seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Darren Boland Chief Risk Officer esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 37
