Strategic Report Governance Financials Risk Committee Directors attendance Meetings Possible Director attended attendance Peter Ward Chairman 4 4 1 Anne Richards 1 1 Martin Pike 4 4 Angela Seymour-Jackson 3 4 1.
Anne Richards left the Company on 25 February 2016.
Peter Shaw was appointed as a member of the Committee on 8 March 2017.
Peter Ward Chairman of the Risk Committee Composition Key activities The Risk Committee currently has four members, all The activities of the Risk Committee during 2016 included independent Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired by review and oversight of the ORSA process including Peter Ward.
The Committee members and attendance at exceptional ORSA for the Demerger of Gocompare.
com, risk scheduled meetings in 2016 are set out in the table.
The appetite, risk policies, risk and compliance plan, reportable Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, events and emerging risks, stress and scenario testing, Chief Risk Officer, Deputy Chief Risk Officer, Head of Risk & assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of risk Capital and Company Secretary attend each meeting.
Committee meets with the Chief Risk Officer without the Executive Directors or other management present, at least Meetings once a year.
The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more frequently if required, and any two members constitute Responsibilities a quorum.
The Committee also met with the Chief Risk The responsibilities of the Committee are to advise the Officer without management present.
Board on the Groups risk strategy, risk policies and current risk exposures, including any prudential risks, overseeing Terms of Reference the implementation and maintenance of the overall risk The Risk Committees Terms of Reference can be viewed management framework and management systems, and on our website at www.
com corporatereviewing the Groups risk assessment processes and information corporate-governance risk-committee.
capability to identify and manage new risks.
The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 45
