COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Report is designed Relations with shareholders on page 41. board but is not regarded as an independent to provide shareholders with an explanation director under the Code.
As a result, the Remuneration is set within the Directors of how the company has applied the main company failed to comply throughout the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 58. principles of the UK Corporate Governance financial year ended September 30 2016 with Code the Code.
We have used the key certain provisions of the Code as set out below.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE themes of the Code as the framework for The company has, however, made significant The company continues substantially to comply articulating the boards activities during the strides over the past few years to bring the with the Code.
However, since its formation year: board structure more in line with best practice.
in 1969, the company has had a majority In particular, the number of executive directors shareholder, Daily Mail and General Trust plc Leadership and effectiveness are on page 33. reduced to two compared to eight in 2015, DMGT.
As majority shareholder, DMGT retains resulting in a position where the majority of Accountability: The reports on the audit and two non-executive positions on the board.
the board comprises non-executive directors.
risk committee are set out on pages 37 to 41.
These non-executive directors are not regarded The board believes this allows for clearer as independent under the Code.
In addition, delineation of responsibilities between the the companys founder, president and exboard and the executive management team.
chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant, remains on the PROVISION CODE PRINCIPLE EXPLANATION OF NON-COMPLIANCE A.
3.1 Appointment of the The appointment of i A Rashbass on October 1 2015 as executive chairman and then ii JC Botts on chairman November 18 2015 as interim non-executive chairman did not meet the Codes independence criteria.
During the year the company undertook a search for an independent non-executive Chairman and concluded that the company would be best served by JC Botts continuing to act as the permanent non-executive chairman.
4.1 Composition of the The board has not identied a senior independent director but intends to do so in the near future to ensure board compliance with the Code.
DP Pritchard carries out a similar function to a senior independent director by acting as a sounding board for the non-executive chairman and an intermediary for the other directors.
1.2 Composition of the Less than half the board are independent non-executive directors.
However, there are clear divisions of board responsibility within the board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The company reduced the number of executive directors following the AGM and aims to be more in line with best practice in the near term in relation to the number of non-executive independent directors.
2.1 Composition of The nominations committee does not comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The the nominations committee comprises three non-executive and one executive director, none of whom are considered committee independent under the Code, but all are considered by the board to be the most appropriate members.
3.2 Terms and JC Botts, DP Pritchard, ART Ballingal and TP Hillgarth have terms and conditions of appointment.
However, conditions of The Viscount Rothermere, PA Zwillenberg and Sir Patrick Sergeant operate under the terms of their appointment of employment contracts with DMGT and Euromoney respectively.
non-executive directors C. 3.1 Composition of the The audit committee does not comprise at least three independent non-executives directors.
The committee audit committee comprises four members, only two of whom are considered independent under the Code.
Of the others, one is the chairman of the company and the other is the finance director of DMGT.
Both are considered by the board to be valuable and independently minded members of the committee.
C. 3.2 Risk committee The risk committee does not comprise of at least three independent non-executive directors.
The committee approach comprises six members, only one of whom is considered independent under the Code.
As explained on pages 40 and 41 the role and responsibilities of the risk committee, including its membership, are considered appropriate and well suited to reviewing the companys risk management approach.
The risk committee and the audit committee work collaboratively and include members common to both committees, to ensure that the principles of the Code are achieved within this structure.
D. 2.1 Composition and The remuneration committee does not comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
The chairmanship of committee comprises three non-executive directors, only one of whom is considered independent under the remuneration the Code.
JC Botts is the chairman of the remuneration committee and following the board changes on committee November 18 2015 is also the chairman of the company.
The chairman of the committee will be reviewed in due course.
32 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Board MEETS EVERY TWO MONTHS CHAIRED BY JC BOTTS Sets and monitors strategy, identies, evaluates and manages material risks, reviews trading performance, ensures adequate funding, examines major acquisition possibilities and approves reports to shareholders.
page 34 MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD AND DELEGATED AUTHORITIES The board has delegated certain aspects of the groups affairs to standing committees, each of which operates within dened terms of reference available on the companys website.
However, to ensure its overall control of the groups affairs, the board has reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the board in a timely manner to enable it to full its duties.
Board committees NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETS AS REQUIRED MEETS TWICE A YEAR MEETS THREE TIMES A YEAR CHAIRED BY JC BOTTS CHAIRED BY JC BOTTS CHAIRED BY DP PRITCHARD Reviews the structure, size and composition of Responsible for determining the contract Reviews and is responsible for oversight of the board and makes recommendations to the terms, remuneration and other benets of the groups financial reporting processes and board accordingly.
executive directors, including performancethe integrity of the financial statements.
This committee also scrutinises the work of the external and internal page 37 recommends and monitors the overall level auditors and any significant judgements made of remuneration and remuneration for senior by management.
The committee reports on its management, including group-wide share operations to the board to enable the directors option schemes.
to determine the overall effectiveness of the groups internal controls system.
page 57 page 37 Management committees EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TAX AND TREASURY COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE MEETS EACH MONTH MEETS TWICE A YEAR MEETS FOUR TIMES A YEAR An advisory committee that operates under Responsible for recommending policy to CHAIRED BY A RASHBASS the direction and authority of the CEO and the board.
The groups treasury policies are Oversees the groups risk management comprises senior management across the directed to giving greater certainty of future processes.
It reviews specic risks and business.
It assists the CEO and finance costs and revenues and ensuring that the monitors developments in relevant legislation director in implementing strategy, operating group has adequate liquidity for working and regulation, assessing the impact on plans, budgets, policies and procedures, capital and debt capacity for funding the group.
The committee reports on its and managing the operational and financial acquisitions.
operations to the board to enable the performance of the group.
It also addresses directors to determine the overall effectiveness other key business and corporate-related The members comprise CEO, finance director matters including corporate and social and DMGTs finance director and deputy of the groups risk management.
responsibility, risk and reputation management, finance director.
The chairman of the audit page 40 staff numbers, recruitment and training.
Details committee also attends the meetings.
and experience of each member can be found on the companys website.
The discussions of the committees are summarised and reported to the next board meeting, together with recommendations on matters reserved for board decisions.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Corporate Governance CONTINUED BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLES The board comprises a non-executive chairman, two executive directors and six non-executive directors.
There are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
There is a procedure for all directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, at the companys expense.
They also have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
Their key responsibilities are set out in the table below: Executive directors CEO A Rashbass Strategy and group performance Finance director CR Jones Group financial and operational performance Non-executive directors Chairman JC Botts Board governance and performance and shareholder engagement President Sir Patrick Sergeant As founder and president of the company, his insight and external contacts remain Support and constructively invaluable challenge the executive directors using their broad Independent nonDP Pritchard, ART Ballingal Bring an external perspective, sound range of experience and executive directors and TP Hillgarth judgement and objectivity to the boards expertise.
Monitor the deliberations and decision-making delivery of the agreed strategy within the risk management Non-executive The Viscount Rothermere, Bring the views of the companys major framework set by the board directors, also MWH Morgan retired May 31 2016 shareholder to the board directors of DMGT PA Zwillenberg appointed June 1 2016 CHC Fordham, NF Osborn, fide Alfano, JL Wilkinson and B AL-Rehany did not seek re-election as executive directors of the company at the AGM on January 28 2016. and advice to the company and the board does of the performance of the board was limited INDEPENDENCE not believe these non-executive directors are to informal interviews and meetings carried The board has determined that DP Pritchard, able to exert undue inuence on decisions out by JC Botts, with the view that an external ART Ballingal and TP Hillgarth are independent taken by the board, nor does it consider their evaluation will be completed in 2017. within the meaning of the Code.
JC Botts independence to be impaired by their positions has been on the board for more than the The nominations committee separately with DMGT.
However, their relationship with recommended term of nine years under the reviewed the performance of JC Botts as DMGT means they are not considered to be Code and the board believes that his length interim chairman of the company and independent.
of service enhances his role as a non-executive recommended his permanent appointment in director and that he remains independently this role to the board.
However, due to his length of service, Each year, the performance of the board and JC Botts is not considered to be independent.
During the year, each of the main committees its committees is evaluated.
The Code requires Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board completed a questionnaire encompassing key an externally facilitated evaluation of the in various roles since founding the company in areas of their mandates.
It was concluded board to be concluded every three years.
The 1969 and has been a non-executive director that the board and its committees had been last external evaluation was conducted by a since 1992.
However, due to his length of effective throughout the year.
company independent to the group in 2014. service, Sir Patrick Sergeant is not considered The evaluation indicated a highly cohesive to be independent.
BOARD MEETINGS AND board and there were no outlying scores to ATTENDANCE The Viscount Rothermere has a significant suggest any significant issues needed to be The board meets at least every two months and shareholding in the company through his addressed.
there is frequent contact between meetings.
beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this At least once a year, the companys chairman As a result of the initial stage of the strategic he is not considered independent.
The Viscount meets the non-executive directors without review carried out by A Rashbass in 2015, it Rothermere and PA Zwillenberg are also the other executive directors being present.
was concluded that the company would be executive directors of DMGT, an intermediate The non-executive directors meet without the better served through a more traditional board parent company.
However, the company is companys chairman present at least annually structure, including the appointment of a nonrun as a separate, distinct and decentralised to appraise the chairmans performance and on executive chairman and the creation of the subsidiary of DMGT and these directors have other occasions as necessary.
As this structure has only no involvement in the day-to-day management been in place for six months, the evaluation of the company.
They bring valuable experience 34 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The number of board and committee meetings and their attendance by each director during the year was as follows: Nominations Audit Risk Remuneration Director Board committee committee committee committee Executive directors A Rashbass 5 5 3 3 4 4 CR Jones 5 5 4 4 1 CHC Fordham 2 2 2 2 4 4 2 NF Osborn 2 2 2 fide Alfano 2 2 2 JL Wilkinson 2 2 2 B AL-Rehany 2 2 Non-executive directors JC Botts 5 5 3 3 3 3 4 4 The Viscount Rothermere 4 5 3 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 5 3 3 3 MWH Morgan 4 4 3 3 1 1 DP Pritchard 5 5 3 3 4 4 4 4 ART Ballingal 5 5 TP Hillgarth 5 5 3 3 4 PA Zwillenberg 1 1 0 0 3 3 1 Resigned as director of the company on January 28 2016 but continued to be a member of the risk committee 2 Resigned as director of the company on January 28 2016 3 Retired as director of the company on May 31 2016 4 Appointed as director of the company on June 1 2016 approved the appointment of JC Botts as considered and approved the groups going BOARD ACTIVITIES The key areas of board activity in 2016 were: permanent chairman of the company: and concern and viability statements, and dividend policy for 2016: and received regular updates including changes STRATEGY to market abuse regulations and the impact considered longer-term financial projections reviewed and approved the new strategy as on the group.
as part of its regular discussions on the presented by the CEO: groups strategy and funding requirements.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL the board received regular reports from SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS the CEO which contained updates on the CONTROL approved the extension of the groups debt groups financial performance, discussion received reports from the chief risk officer on facility of $160m 123m with DMGT: and of any proposed corporate transactions, the groups significant and emerging risks: changes in senior management and progress and as part of the strategy, to review the groups against the group strategy: portfolio, approved the disposal of Gulf with the support of the risk and audit Publishing and Petroleum Economist and attended the groups Investor Day in March committees, reviewed principal risks and 2016: the acquisitions of FastMarkets and ReSec.
the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management and discussed reviewed the groups performance against LEADERSHIP AND PEOPLE the groups risk appetite for 2016. budget: and discussed succession, talent development and diversity across management: reviewed presentations by the groups key FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE considered the financial performance of the operations including: BCA, II Research, discussed employee reward schemes: and II Memberships and NDR.
business and approved the annual budget: approved the restructure programme reviewed the key financial judgements and affecting a number of businesses and central GOVERNANCE all financial results announcements, and departments as part of the groups strategic approved the new board structure making approved the Annual Report: review.
the majority of the board comprise nonexecutive directors: 35 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Corporate Governance CONTINUED The diverse range of products and the many MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT ENTITY LEVEL CONTROLS geographic markets that the group operates Each operating business is responsible for FAIR, BALANCED AND in makes regular testing of business continuity the identication and assessment of risks, UNDERSTANDABLE plans a challenge.
The group is committed to understanding the risk return strategy and The directors have responsibility for preparing improving its testing regime and is rolling out operating appropriate controls.
A significant the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and for a new business continuity testing programme amount of work has been undertaken in the year making certain conrmations concerning it.
In during 2017. to enhance and update the companys financial accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the controls at business level.
A set of new tools Key procedures which the directors have board considers that, taken as a whole, it is fair, has also been designed to provide guidance on established with a view to providing effective balanced and understandable and provides each control area to help businesses within the internal control, and which have been in place the information necessary for shareholders group align their processes within the groups throughout the year and up to the date of this to assess the companys position and financial control framework.
To support these report, are as follows: performance, business model and strategy.
The tools, a training schedule and programme board reached this conclusion after receiving is in development.
Each operating business THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS advice from the audit committee.
confirms the operation of key controls to has overall responsibility for the group central management annually.
The purpose of INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK and there is a formal schedule of matters the assessment is to confirm the operation of a specically reserved for decision by the MANAGEMENT framework of internal controls, including antiboard: See pages 15 to 20 for the groups principal fraud controls, which are expected to be in risks and mitigating actions reviews and assesses the groups principal place in each business unit.
They are intended risks and uncertainties at least annually and to provide standards against which the control The board as a whole is responsible for the has performed a robust assessment of those environments of the groups business units can oversight of risk, the groups system of internal principal risks: be monitored.
An annual bribery and fraud control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
risk assessment is completed at the same time, Such a system is designed to manage rather seeks assurance that effective control is detailing risks and mitigating controls.
In each than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve being maintained through regular reports case, the central management team follows-up business objectives, and can only provide from business group management, the these submissions as appropriate.
reasonable and not absolute assurance risk and audit committee and various against material misstatement or loss.
The independent monitoring functions: The executive committee meets monthly to board has implemented a continuing process discuss strategic, operational and financial approves the annual budget after performing for identifying, evaluating and managing the issues.
The groups tax, nancing and foreign a review of key risk factors.
Performance is material risks faced by the group.
The board exchange positions are overseen by the monitored regularly by way of variances has delegated the day-to-day responsibility for tax and treasury committee.
Controls and and key performance indicators to enable internal controls to the audit committee and procedures over the security of data and relevant action to be taken and forecasts are for risk management to the risk committee.
disaster recovery are periodically reviewed updated each quarter.
The board considers and are subject to internal audit.
Accounting The directors completed a review of the longer-term financial projections as part controls and procedures are regularly reviewed effectiveness of the groups system of risk of its regular discussions on the groups and communicated throughout the group.
management and internal controls covering strategy and funding requirements: and Particular attention is paid to authorisation all material controls, including financial, levels and segregation of duties.
proposals for investments and capital operational and compliance controls.
The expenditure beyond specified limits are put majority of controls operated throughout the INTERNAL AUDIT to the board for approval.
year, though some additional controls were The groups internal audit function described implemented during the year.
The review RISK AND AUDIT COMMITTEE on page 40 is managed by DMGTs internal did not identify any significant weaknesses audit function, working closely with the The board has determined that having separate in the system of internal control and risk audit and risk committees, each with specic companys finance director and the chairman management.
Where weaknesses were of the audit committee.
It undertakes internal terms of reference, is required to provide the identied, they were localised and specic challenge and review necessary across the control reviews across the group and reports its to individual businesses and not considered findings to the audit committee.
range of businesses the group operates.
The generic or significant at an overall group level.
audit and the risk committees collaborate with The controls to prevent an information security VIABILITY STATEMENT one another, as appropriate, with members breach or cyber-attack are being regularly See page 20 for the viability statement.
possessing the requisite skills and experience reviewed and where appropriate updated.
to allow each committee to meet its obligation Cyber and other information security risks and to provide the relevant assurance to the are increasing and the mitigation of these board.
This ensures that matters of mutual risks continues to be a key focus for the risk interest raised in either of the committees are committee and the board.
discussed in the other committee and also cascaded down to the operating businesses.
36 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Following the changes agreed by the board NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE in November 2015, a thorough search The nominations committee is responsible for The audit committee is responsible for oversight process was undertaken by the committee proposing candidates for appointment to the of the groups financial reporting processes for the recruitment and appointment of a board having regard to the balance of skills, and the integrity of the financial statements.
structure and composition of the board and It scrutinises the work of the external auditor The committee ensured that the appointed ensuring the appointees have sufficient time and any significant judgements made by executive search agency was independent available to devote to the role.
The committee reports on its and had no other connections with the group.
operations to the board to enable the directors COMMITTEE MEMBERS The committee concluded that although to determine the overall effectiveness of the the objective was to nd an independent JC Botts chairman of the committee groups internal controls system.
A Rashbass non-executive chairman, the most suitable candidate was JC Botts due to his knowledge Sir Patrick Sergeant COMMITTEE MEMBERS 1 CHC Fordham of the company and his skill and experience on DP Pritchard chairman of the committee, 2 the board and in many of the markets that the MWH Morgan independent 3 PA Zwillenberg group serves.
JC Botts was not involved in any JC Botts decision regarding his own appointment.
SW Daintith finance director of DMGT 1 Resigned as member of the committee on TP Hillgarth independent November 18 2015 2 FOCUS FOR 2017 Retired as director of the company and member of Three of the four members are non-executive The key activities for the year ahead will be: the committee on May 31 2016 directors.
All members of the committee have 3 Appointed as director of the company and reviewing the composition of the board, a high level of financial literacy, SW Daintith member of the committee on June 1 2016 including diversity, to ensure that the right and TP Hillgarth are chartered accountants and KEY ACTIVITIES skills and experience to support the groups members of the ICAEW, and DP Pritchard has The committee meets when required and this strategy are represented: considerable audit committee experience.
year met three times, and informal discussions reviewing the balance of independent nonwere held at other times during the year.
The RESPONSIBILITIES executive directors with the view that at main focus for 2016 was the restructure of The committee meets at least three times each least half of the board will be independent the board and the appointment of a new nonfinancial year and is responsible for: in the near term: and executive chairman.
monitoring the integrity of the interim continuing to review succession planning.
The following changes were proposed by report, the Annual Report and Accounts and the committee and agreed by the board in other related formal statements, reviewing DIVERSITY November 2015: accounting policies used and judgements The committee believes that diversity is applied: the chairman of the board be changed to important for board effectiveness.
However, a non-executive role and that JC Botts be diversity is much more than an issue of gender reviewing the content of the Annual Report appointed as the non-executive chairman and includes a diversity of skills, experience, and Accounts and advising the board on in an interim capacity until such time nationality and background.
Diversity whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced as the company appoints a permanent will continue to be a key consideration and understandable and provides the independent non-executive chairman: when contemplating the composition and information necessary for shareholders to refreshing of the board as well as senior and assess the companys performance, business A Rashbasss role as executive chairman be wider management.
Following the board model and strategy: changed to the new role of CEO: restructure during the year, the number of considering the effectiveness of the groups A Rashbass to step down as chairman of female board members fell to nil from two at internal financial control systems: the nominations committee and JC Botts the start of the financial year.
The committee to replace A Rashbass as chairman of the remains supportive of the principles stated considering the appointment or nominations committee until a permanent in the Davies Report and views the current reappointment of the external auditor and non-executive chairman has been appointed: status as temporary.
As part of its review of reviewing their remuneration, both for audit the composition of the board in 2017, the and non-audit: CHC Fordham to step down from the diversity position will be reviewed in light of nominations committee: and monitoring and reviewing the external best practice.
The groups gender diversity auditors independence and objectivity and the number of executive directors on information is set out in the Strategic Report the effectiveness of the audit process: the board to reduce and accordingly on pages 28 and 29.
CHC Fordham, NF Osborn, JL Wilkinson, monitoring and reviewing the resources and B AL-Rehany and fide Alfano not to seek effectiveness of internal audit: re-election at the companys next AGM in January 2016.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Corporate Governance CONTINUED reviewing the internal audit programme and identifying and assessing the matters which assessing the external auditors effectiveness, receiving periodic reports on its findings: required significant judgement in 2016, particularly as financial year 2015 was their including discussion and review of the first year-end following the formal tender reviewing the whistle-blowing arrangements non-underlying items that may impact the process 2014. available to staff: performance of the business: The FRCs Conduct Committee selected the reviewing the groups policy on the advising the board on whether the groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts employment of former audit staff: and Annual Report was fair, balanced and for review.
Whilst there were no significant understandable: findings, some areas of disclosure around reviewing the groups policy on non-audit fees.
tax reporting were identied as requiring reviewing the groups system of internal improvement, including an expansion to the control and financial risk, including accounting policy for uncertain tax provisions KEY ACTIVITIES managements project to improve and The committee met three times and met and a description of significant movements to document the processes and controls in the tax reconciliation.
The audit committee privately with the representatives from internal in the finance functions globally and and external audit after each meeting.
The has ensured that these matters have been implementation of Navision at Institutional adequately addressed in the 2016 Annual chairman of the committee also held separate Investor in New York: private meetings during the year with the Report and Accounts, in particular, the Strategic Report, the groups key judgement external auditor, representatives from internal monitoring the resolution of issues raised audit and the finance director and his team.
areas in note 2 and the tax disclosures and during internal audits: explanations in note 8.
The key activities included: jointly with DMGT, selecting a new head of Looking ahead, the additional topics in 2017 internal audit and increasing the internal will be to evaluate systems of internal control audit resource for 2017 to include a team across the group, including system controls, in member allocated exclusively to the group: light of the organisational changes being made a review of the provision of non-audit following the strategic review, and to increase services in light of the revision of the FRCs the committees direct interaction with finance Ethical Standard for Auditors: and staff from key businesses to widen and deepen its knowledge of people, processes and systems.
FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS The committee, with input from the external auditor, assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted, whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements and whether disclosures were balanced and fair.
For the year ended September 30 2016 the committee reviewed the following main issues: ISSUE REVIEW Fair, balanced and understandable At the request of the board, the audit committee has considered Following the committees review of the accounts and after applying their whether, in its opinion, the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, knowledge of matters raised during the year, the committee is satisfied balanced and understandable.
that, taken as a whole, the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable Presentation of adjusted performance Presentation of the adjusted performance and the adjusting The committee reviewed the financial statements and discussed items, including identication and treatment of exceptional items.
with management and the external auditor the appropriateness of Management considered the latest ESMA guidelines on alternative the adjusted items including consideration of their consistency and performance measures to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts the avoidance of any misleading effect on the financial statements.
had been updated in line with best practice.
The committee challenged management to ensure that each item is appropriate to classify as an exceptional item.
The committee concluded that the presentation of the adjusted performance is appropriate.
38 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ISSUE REVIEW Impact of strategy on results presentation The groups new strategy has had the following impact on the The committee reviewed the disclosures of the new reportable presentation of the financial statements: segments in the pre-close trading statement and financial statements to ensure consistency with the budget presentation to the board and classication of reportable segments to reect changes to the the management accounts pack.
internal reporting to the board as prescribed by IFRS 8: and The committee discussed any planned disposals with management presentation of planned disposals as held for sale.
and satisfied itself that the disclosures in the financial statements were appropriate.
Goodwill and other intangibles The group has goodwill of 396.1m and other intangible assets of The committee has considered the assessments made in relation to the 155.0m.
As a result of the impairment review at the half year and impairment of goodwill.
The committee discussed the methodology year end, the group recognised impairment charges for Mining Indaba and assumptions used in the model supporting the carrying value.
The of 12.9m, HedgeFund Intelligence HFI of 5.9m, Total Derivatives of committee reviewed those businesses where headroom has decreased 8.2m and Euromoney Indices of 1.7m.
or where management has identied impairments, including Mining Indaba, HFI, Total Derivatives and Euromoney Indices.
NDR was also A sensitivity analysis for NDR has been included as further disclosures reviewed but the committee was satisfied no impairment was necessary are required under IAS 36 if any reasonably possible change to a key for NDR.
The committee has also understood the sensitivity analysis assumption would cause the cash generating units carrying amount to used by management in its review and disclosure of impairment.
Investments The group holds material balances relating to investments in associates The committee reviewed the assessments made in relation to Dealogic, and available-for-sale amounting to 35.9m.
Zanbato and Estimize for potential impairments at the half year and year-end.
The committee is satisfied with the carrying value recognised for Dealogic and that no impairment is required.
The Committee recognised that Zanbato and Estimize businesses are still in start-up phase but based on progress to date the committee concluded no impairment was required at year-end.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals The group made a number of acquisitions and disposals during the The committee has reviewed the results of the work undertaken in this year.
There were a number of consequential accounting considerations, area, the disclosure in the financial statements and has sought further including identication and fair values of intangible assets, fair value explanation where necessary.
The committee reviewed the inputs of other assets, goodwill arising, step-up losses of prior interests held and assumptions into the calculation of the acquisition commitments and gain on sale of disposal recognised.
The group also has acquisition liability at year-end.
Taxation Taxation represents a significant cost to the group in both cash and The committee reviewed the tax charge at the half year and full year, accounting terms, and the group is exposed to differing tax regimes and including the underlying tax effect, deferred tax balances and the risks which affect both the carrying values of tax balances including provision for uncertain tax positions for direct and indirect tax.
The deferred tax and the resultant income statement charges.
The group is chairman of the audit committee also attends the tax and treasury also exposed to similar risks for indirect tax.
committee which provides valuable insight into the tax matters, related provisions and helps establish the appropriateness of the recognition of the deferred tax balances.
The committee is satisfied that all issues have been addressed appropriately and in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and principles.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Corporate Governance CONTINUED people across the wider DMGT group as well finance director, deputy finance director, and EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL as regularly supplementing its team through divisional finance directors and PwCs client FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS satisfaction survey were discussed by the audit the use of specialists.
In 2017, this resource will The committee has responsibility for reviewing committee and no significant issues were be increased to include a dedicated full-time the process for identifying and managing raised by the assessment.
PwC confirmed member of the internal audit team allocated financial risk and for reviewing internal financial to the committee that they maintained to the group.
It reviews reports on internal financial appropriate internal safeguards to ensure their controls including reports by the chief risk The committee is able to monitor the independence and objectivity.
The committee officer, finance director and the results from effectiveness of internal audit through its recommends the reappointment of PwC at the the internal audits.
In addition, the committee involvement in their focus, planning, process 2017 AGM.
reviewed the external auditors assessment of and outcome.
The committee approves the the groups minimum controls framework and internal audit plan and any revision to it NON-AUDIT WORK the design of the financial and system controls during the year.
The chair of the committee The audit committee completes an annual for a new finance system implemented by the is invited to attend the initial internal audit assessment of the type of non-audit work US group.
permissible and a maximum level of nonplanning meeting with management.
Any non-audit work audit presents, at each audit committee INTERNAL AUDIT performed outside this remit is assessed and meeting, a summary of its work and findings, The groups internal audit function is managed where appropriate approved by the committee.
the results of the internal audit teams follow by DMGTs internal audit department, working Fees paid to PwC for audit services, auditup of completed reviews and a summary of closely with the companys finance director related services and other non-audit services assurance work completed by other audit and chairman of the audit committee.
Internal are set out in note 4.
During 2016, PwC did functions within the business.
The audit draws on the services of the groups are involved in other risk assurance projects groups non-audit fee policy was updated for central finance teams to assist in completing including fraud investigation, the annual the revision of the FRCs Ethical Standard for the audit assignments.
Internal audit aims fraud and bribery risk assessment, information Auditors and is available on the companys to provide an independent assessment as security and business continuity.
to whether effective systems and controls are also subject to an external review every are in place and being operated to manage five years, the results of which are fed back to RISK COMMITTEE significant operating and financial risks.
This external review was last The risk committee oversees the groups risk aims to support management by providing cost carried out in September 2013. management processes and considers the effective recommendations to mitigate risk and group risk register biannually.
It reviews specic control weaknesses identied during the audit EXTERNAL AUDITOR risks and monitors developments in relevant process, as well as provide insight into where  LLP PwC was legislation and regulation, assessing the impact cost efficiencies and monetary gains might appointed by shareholders as the groups on the group.
The committee reports on its be made by improving the operations of the statutory auditor in 2015 following a formal operations to the board to enable the directors business.
Businesses and central departments tender process.
The external audit contract to determine the overall effectiveness of the are selected for an internal audit on a riskwill be put out to tender at least every ten groups risk management.
focused basis, after taking account of the years.
The company has complied with the risks identied as part of the risk management Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies COMMITTEE MEMBERS process, the risk and materiality of each of the Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and Audit Committee A Rashbass CEO chairman of the groups businesses, the scope and findings Responsibilities Order 2014 for the financial committee of external audit work, the departments and year under review.
DP Pritchard Independent non-executive businesses reviewed previously and the findings director from these reviews.
This approach ensures that As part of its role in ensuring effectiveness, CR Jones Finance director internal audit focus is placed on the higher the committee reviewed PwCs audit plan to CHC Fordham Corporate development risk areas of the group, while ensuring an ensure its appropriateness for the group and director appropriate breadth of audit coverage.
has completed a review which focused on the ST Hardie Chief risk officer effectiveness, independence and objectivity The audit committee monitors the level and C Chapman General counsel and company of the external audit.
The assessment of the skill base available to the group from internal secretary to DMGT effectiveness is based on a framework setting audit.
Although internal audit areas are out the key areas of the audit process for the planned a year ahead, the amount of time committee to consider, as well as the role that available to the group from internal audit management has contributed to an effective is not xed.
Internal audit is able to scale up process.
Results from tailored questionnaires resource as required and draws on finance sent to the chairman of the audit committee, 40 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITIES KEY ACTIVITIES RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The committee is responsible for review and The committee meets at least three times The companys chairman, together with the consideration of: a year and this year met four times.
The key board, encourages regular dialogue with activities during the year included: shareholders.
Meetings with shareholders are the risks which the committee believes are held, both in the UK and in the US, to discuss those most pertinent to the group and its reviewing the groups risk management annual and interim results and highlight subsidiaries including emerging or potential processes and the group risk register: significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the future risks and their likely impact on the request of institutional shareholders.
Private reviewing groups principal risks to align group: with the new strategy: shareholders are encouraged to participate in the AGM.
In line with best practice, all the impact of those risks and proposed assessment of the groups cyber risk and remedial actions where appropriate: shareholders have at least 20 working days information security governance: notice of the AGM at which the executive the group risk register and risk registers directors, non-executive directors and consideration of geopolitical risks that might from each operating business including the committee chairs are available for questioning.
affect the group, including Brexit: and applicable controls: The companys chairman and finance overseeing the launch of a new worldwide director report to fellow board members reports on any material risk incidents and employee travel safety programme.
matters raised by shareholders and analysts the adequacy of proposed action including to ensure members of the board develop an managements responsiveness to the Looking ahead, the risk committee will understanding of the investors and potential findings: continue to monitor key risks affecting investors views of the company.
operating businesses and the group.
Other the groups overall risk assessment approach key areas will include information security, and methodology, including: data protection including the new EU General the groups capability to identify and Data Protection Regulation, event security and manage new risk types: business continuity.
the groups procedures for detecting fraud and for the prevention of bribery: and the adequacy and security of the groups speak-up arrangements: the principal risks and uncertainties disclosure and other relevant risk management disclosures for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The committee also advises the board on current risk exposures of the group, future risk mitigation strategies and the overall risk appetite and tolerance.
Investor Day Euromoney held an Investor Day in March 2016 to communicate its new strategy to its shareholders.
The Investor Day was a key part in Euromoneys continuing effort to improve communication with its shareholders and to increase transparency of its operations, leadership and governance.
The main theme of the Investor Day was the presentation of Euromoneys new strategy developed following the appointment of Andrew Rashbass as the CEO.
It also allowed the investors and analysts to meet with members of the board, many of whom attended the event.
The Investor Day included a number of presentations by the divisional leaders of Euromoney and demonstrations of their latest products.
The investors and analysts also had opportunities to meet with the divisional leaders to discuss face to face the opportunities and challenges facing their businesses.
