Corporate governance report Introduction EVRAZ is a public company limited by shares incorporated in the United Kingdom.
It is a premiumlisted company on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
EVRAZ is committed to high standards of corporate governance and control.
Further information on the Companys Corporate Governance policies and principles are available on the Companys website: www.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at www.
Compliance with corporate governance standards EVRAZ approach to corporate governance and clawback provisions.
The Company and regional experience and qualification, is primarily based on the UK Corporate does not operate clawback arrangements as a past senior audit manager at Arthur Governance Code published by the Financial and an explanation for this non-compliance Andersen and as head of corporate finance Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 and the is set out in the Remuneration Report at Russian oil company Sibneft, continues Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The on pages 120-129. to be of value to the Committee.
Accordingly, Company complies with the UK Corporate she is invited to attend Board meetings in Governance Code or, if it does not comply, Contrary to provision C. 3.1 of the UK an advisory capacity and to attend Audit explains the reasons for non-compliance.
During Corporate Governance Code, Olga Committee meetings as an observer.
Since the year to 31 December 2016, EVRAZ complied Pokrovskaya was a member of the Audit 14 March 2016, the Audit Committee has with all the principles and provisions of the 2016 Committee until her cessation as a Board consisted of three non-executive directors, UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance member on 14 March 2016, but did not all independent, which complies with the Code is available at www.
uk with the meet the independence criteria set out Code, and the Board considers that, as a following exceptions: in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
whole, the Committee has competence Provision D. 1.1 of the Governance Code More than 50% of EVRAZ activities and relevant to the industry sector in which the requires that performance-related operations are based in the Russian Group operates.
remuneration schemes should include malus Federation and Olga Pokrovskayas technical Board responsibilities and performance The Board and management of EVRAZ aim During the year ended 31 December 2016, investment project reviews to pursue objectives in the best interests the Board considered a wide range of changes to the composition of various of EVRAZ, its shareholders and other matters, including: Board committees stakeholders, and particularly to create the critical success factors for strategic implementation throughout the group over long-term value for shareholders.
The EVRAZ development of the Companys competitive the next five years of the EVRAZ Business Board is responsible for the following key advantages System to promote an operational culture aspects of governance and performance: the performance of key businesses, of values and behaviours that support Financial and operational performance including commercial initiatives to improve the drive for continuous improvement and Strategic direction operational performances and revenues, business change Major acquisitions and disposals with particular emphasis on North America linking succession planning to corporate Overall risk management consolidated group budget and budgets strategy execution, and the need to look Capital expenditure and operational of individual business units deeper into the group for future leaders budgeting the interim and full-year results, and the compliance with the Market Abuse Business planning 2015 Annual Report Regulation in relation to managing inside Approval of internal regulations and the appropriateness of the going concern information, share dealing by insiders and policies basis of financial reporting online training of all insiders the assumptions, stress-test scenarios and a review of the findings of the internally mitigating actions used in preparing the facilitated Board evaluation exercises and Companys viability statement action plans resulting therefrom.
HSE updates 104 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Chairman and chief The chief financial officer and the senior from the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, vice president commerce and business Karl Gruber joined the Audit Committee.
executive development attended all Board meetings, The Board determines the division with other members of senior management The Board considers that four non-executive of responsibilities between the chairman and attending meetings by invitation to deliver directors Karl Gruber, Alexander Izosimov, the chief executive officer CEO.
presentations on the status of projects and Sir Michael Peat and Deborah Gudgeon are performance of business units.
independent in character and judgement, and The chairmans principal responsibility is free from any business or other relationship the effective running of the Board, ensuring The table below sets out the attendance of that could materially interfere with the exercise that the Board as a whole plays a full and each current director at scheduled EVRAZ plc of their independent judgement, in compliance constructive part in the development and Board and Board Committee meetings in 2016. with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
determination of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The Board As at 31 December 2016, the Board comprised The independent non-executive directors comprise is chaired by Alexander Abramov.
the chairman, one executive director, and six the majority on and chair all Board Committees.
non-executive directors, including a senior The CEO is responsible for leading the Groups independent director.
On 14 March 2016, The Board has also satisfied itself that there operating performance, as well as day-to-day Duncan Baxter and Olga Pokrovskaya stood down is no compromise to the independence of, management of the Company and its subsidiaries.
as directors, and Terry Robinson who retired or existence of conflicts of interest for, those The Companys CEO is Alexander Frolov.
as a director on 18 June 2015 ceased to be an directors who serve together as directors on the adviser to the Board.
This change was agreed boards of outside entities.
The CEO is supported by the executive team.
following a review of the composition of the Board, to enable financial savings to be achieved Boardroom diversity without compromising the quality of the Groups Board meetings, governance.
Olga Pokrovskaya is invited to attend Board meetings in an advisory capacity and to composition and AGM attend Audit Committee meetings as an observer.
EVRAZ plc held 10 scheduled Board meetings and two ad-hoc meetings held in the form of As a result, a number of changes were % conference calls during 2016.
In 2017, up to made to Board Committees: Alexander Independent Non-Executive Directors 50 the date of this reports publication, two Board Izosimov assumed the chairmanship of the Non-Executive Directors 25 meetings were held.
Remuneration Committee, Deborah Gudgeon Chairman, Non-Executive 12.5 and Sir Michael Peat joined the Remuneration Executive Director 12.5 Committee, and Karl Gruber stepped down 1 Board and AGM attendance by each director 1 In addition to the ten scheduled Board meetings held in 2016, two meetings were held by conference call to consider Board Remco HSECo Auditco Nomco AGM specific financing proposals.
Mr Abramov and Mr Izosimov were each unable to attend one Board or Committee Total Number meeting due to a prior commitment or illness.
10 3 2 9 2 1 of Meetings The following changes were made to the composition of the Alexander Abramov 9 10 - - - 2 2 1 Board and its Committees with effect from 14 March 2016: Olga Pokrovskaya stepped down from the Board and the Alexander Frolov 10 10 - 2 2 - - 1 Audit Committee but continued as a non-executive member of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Her Karl Gruber 10 10 1 1 2 2 6 6 2 2 1 meetings attendance during the year was Board 3 3, Audit Committee 3 3, and HSE Committee 2 2.
Deborah Gudgeon 10 10 2 2 - 9 9 - 1 Duncan Baxter stepped down from the Board, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
His Alexander Izosimov 10 10 3 3 - 8 9 2 2 1 meetings attendance during the year was Board 3 3, Remuneration Committee 1 1, and Audit Committee Sir Michael Peat 10 10 2 2 - - 2 2 1 3 3.
Alexander Izosimov was appointed chairman of the Remuneration Committee succeeding Duncan Baxter, Sir Michael Peat and Deborah Gudgeon joined the Eugene Shvidler 10 10 - - - 2 2 1 Remuneration Committee, and Karl Gruber stepped down from the Remuneration Committee and joined the Audit Eugene Tenenbaum 10 10 - - - - 1 Committee.
com 105 Boardroom diversity Board expertise Performance evaluation EVRAZ recognises the importance of diversity The Board has determined that, as a whole, An internally facilitated annual Board both at the Board level and throughout the it has the appropriate skills and experience evaluation was conducted in December whole organisation.
The Company remains necessary to discharge its functions.
As in the previous year, the review was committed to increasing diversity across and non-executive directors have the carried out with the initiative and participation its global operations and takes diversity experience required to contribute meaningfully of the Companys Nominations Committee.
into account during each recruitment and to the Boards deliberations and resolutions.
Questionnaires were distributed to all Board appointment process, working to attract Non-executive directors assist the Board by directors for their response and comment.
outstanding candidates with diverse constructively challenging and helping develop The results were discussed at three levels: backgrounds, skills, ideas and culture.
Most of the directors have i between the members of the Nominations more detailed information, see the Nominations been in post since the date of EVRAZ plc Committee, ii between Sir Michael Peat as Committee report on pages 116-117 and CSR incorporation in October 2011. chairman of the Nominations Committee report on pages 72-95. and Alexander Abramov as chairman of the Board and iii between the Board as a The Company believes that the Board structure Induction and whole.
Board performance was deemed to be provides an appropriate balance of skills, satisfactory, notwithstanding the reduction in professional knowledge and experience.
The members Board membership from 10 to 8 in 2016, and development comprise a number of different nationalities in overall terms the review was encouraging with a wide range of skills, capabilities The chairman is responsible for ensuring that and useful.
The Company undertakes regular and experience from a variety of business there is a properly constructed and timely performance evaluations of the Board in line backgrounds.
Biographies of the Board induction for new directors upon joining the Board.
with the requirements of the UK Corporate members are provided in the Board of Directors Directors have full access to a regular supply of Governance Code and an externally facilitated section.
financial, operational, strategic and regulatory review is planned for 2017. information to help them discharge their responsibilities.
For more detailed information, see the Nominations Committee report.
Board composition as of 31 December 2016 Name Position Committee membership Years of tenure Executive Director Alexander Frolov CEO HSEC - member 5 Non-Executive Directors Alexander Abramov Chairman NC - member 5 Eugene Shvidler Director NC - member 5 Eugene Tenenbaum Director None 5 Non-Executive Independent Directors HSEC - hairman Karl Gruber Director AC - member 5 NC - member AC - chairman Deborah Gudgeon Director 1 RC - member RC - chairman Alexander Izosimov Director NC - member 4 AC - member Senior Independent NC - chairman Sir Michael Peat 5 Director RC - member NC - Nominations Committee, HSEC - Health, Safety and Environment Committee, AC - Audit Committee, RC - Remuneration Committee 106 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The role and composition of each committee Board committees The Board is supported in its work by the Committee Function Composition name following principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, Audit Audit, financial reporting, risk All 3 members are independent Committee management and controls non-executive directors See pages 110-115 the Nominations Committee and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Nominations Selection and nomination All 5 members are non-executive directors, Committee of Board members of which 3 are independent See pages 116-117 Each committee has written terms of reference, Remuneration Remuneration of Board All 3 members are independent approved by the Board, summarising its role Committee members and top management non-executive directors See pages 120-129 and responsibilities.
1 2 of the 3 members are non-executive with HSE an independent chairman who is also HSE issues Committee a non-executive director of the Company.
See pages 118-119 1 The terms of reference for each The members of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee at 31 December 2016 were Karl Gruber chairman, Alexander Frolov and Olga Pokrovskaya who has continued as a non-executive member of the HSE Committee following her cessation as a Board Committee are available on the member of the Company on 14 March 2016.
With more than 50% of EVRAZ operations based in the Russian Federation, the Committee Companys website: www.
continues to value the contribution she brings in terms of her technical and regional experience.
Risk management and internal control EVRAZ maintains a comprehensive financial The executive management is responsible mitigation at a regional level, as well as at reporting procedures FRP manual for introducing the agreed internal controls EVRAZ major steel and mining operations.
detailing the Groups internal control and and mitigating actions related to risk The Risk Management Group maintains risk management systems and activity.
The management throughout EVRAZ business a corporate risk register representing a manual was last updated in December 2016. and operations, as well as at all levels of summary of this information.
Business unit In line with the Financial Reporting Council management and supervision.
This serves to management teams and other relevant FRC Guidance on Risk Management, encourage a risk-conscious business culture.
bodies are accountable to the Risk Internal Control and Related Financial and Management Group by way of membership Business Reporting issued in September EVRAZ applies the following core principles of the latter vice presidents of business 2014.
The aim of the risk management to identifying, monitoring and managing risk units and functions.
process is to identify, evaluate and manage throughout the organisation: All acquired businesses are brought within potential and actual threats to the Group Risks are identified, documented, the Groups system of internal control as achieving its objectives.
assessed and monitored, and their profile soon as practicable.
is communicated to the relevant levels EVRAZ Enterprise Risk Management ERM of the management team regularly.
The process is designed to identify, quantify, business management team is primarily For additional information respond to and monitor the consequences responsible for ERM and accountable for about principal risks and of these threats.
The management maintains all risks assumed in the operations.
uncertainties see Strategic a risk register that encompasses both The Board is responsible for assessing the report on pages 32-36 internal and external critical threats.
The optimum balance of risk risk appetite level of risk appetite approved by the Board through the alignment of business strategy is used to identify particular risks and and risk tolerance on an enterprise-wide basis.
uncertainties that require specific Board In addition, the Board oversees risks above oversight.
In 2016, regarding principal the Groups defined risk appetite and internal risks and uncertainties, this process was control weaknesses measured in excess of the consistent with the UK Corporate Governance risk appetite.
Code, the FRC Guidance on the Strategic A reporting process involving business unit Report issued in June 2014, and the FRC management teams and other relevant Guidance on Risk Management, Internal bodies at major enterprises has been Control and Related Financial and Business established.
Its aim is to identify, evaluate Reporting issued in September 2014. and establish management actions for risk www.
com 107 Internal control BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Ensuring Groups ongoing internal control process is adequate and effective AUDIT COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT Supervise and review of reports Primary oversight of internal control regime Risk Management Group Reviewing effectiveness of internal control Reviews of Regional Risk Committees reports and or Business Units management teams effectiveness Site level managers EVRAZ ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK annual management self-assessments Components of the internal control system Component Basis for assurance Action in 2016 Assurance framework principal entity-level Self-assessment by management at all major In 2016, the internal audit function certified controls to prevent and detect error or material and reviewed the internal control system: more operations fraud, ensure effectiveness of operations and straightforward connection between the result Review of the self-assessment by the internal compliance with principal external and internal of the self-assessment of internal control by the audit function regulations management and an internal audit plan has been established Investment project management Monitored by established management Continuous enhancement of procedures regarding quality and reporting control, as committee and sub-committees well as other elements of the project oversight Reviewed by internal audit process Operating policies and procedures Implemented, updated and monitored by Operating policies and procedures were updated as per the internal initiatives by management operational management and in response Reviewed by the internal audit function to recommendations from the internal audit function Operating budgets Monitored by controlling unit Operating budgets were prepared, and approved by the Board Reviewed by the internal audit function Approved by the Board Accounting policies and procedures as per Developed and updated by the reporting Accounting policies and procedures were the corporate accounting manual updated as part of the standard annual review department process Reviewed by the internal audit function 108 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Board has delegated primary oversight certain deficiencies that had been identified in are aligned with and risk mitigation actions are of the Groups internal control process to the internal control together with managements reflective of the risk appetite approved by the Audit Committee.
The committee has tabled for response to such deficiencies.
The Group adopts a robust approach in the directors consideration the major internal relation to risk management.
Risk appetite for control findings in the areas where the Boards The internal audit planning process starts with some specific business processes eg in fraud, risk appetite has been exceeded.
the Groups strategy: includes the formal risk security, bribery and corruption, as well as in the assessment process, consideration of the health and safety process is assessed, defined To ensure that control is exercised effectively results of the self-assessment of internal control and evaluated separately from the rest of the across operations, the Group has adopted annual by the management, and the identification of processes.
management self-assessments of the internal management concerns based on the results of control system using the EVRAZ Assurance previous audits: and ends with an internal audit The management reassesses the risk appetite Framework.
The management rates and certifies plan, which the Audit Committee then approves.
at least annually via the Risk Committee Risk the individual components of the framework.
In Audit resources are predominantly allocated to Management Group.
The Risk Management 2016, all major production sites were certified as areas of higher risk and, to the extent considered Group reports on the analysis performed to the having effective internal control.
necessary, to financial and business controls and Audit Committee, which makes recommendations processes, with appropriate resource reservation to the Board regarding the level of risk appetite.
A department headed by Senior Vice President for ad hoc and follow-up assignments.
The Risk Management Group and the Audit Leonid Kachur has specific responsibility for Committee last reviewed the Groups risk profile preventing and detecting business fraud and In 2016, internal audit projects covered the in October 2016 and finalised the assessment abuse, including fraudulent behaviour by following Group risks: in January 2017.
Based on the results of the employees, customers and suppliers that may Cost effectiveness most recent review, the management concluded cause a direct economic loss to the business.
Health, safety and environment that the approach for acceptance of risks within Solid internal controls help minimise the risk, Capital projects and expenditure the company had not changed and that the and EVRAZ Business Security department Treasury and working capital management risk appetite remained the same as in the prior ensures that appropriate processes are in Human resources year.
An appropriate recommendation regarding place to protect the Groups interests.
Compliance the level of risk appetite was made to the Audit Business interruption, and equipment and Committee and to the Board.
infrastructure downtime management Internal audit Transportation, sourcing, raw materials and energy supply Objectives for 2017 Internal audit is an independent appraisal IT security and IT infrastructure risk function that the Board has established to management Further risk management training for evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of Quality the Groups top management took place controls, systems and procedures at EVRAZ to in early 2017. reduce business risks to an acceptable level EVRAZ internal audit function is structured on a and in a cost-effective manner.
regional basis, reflecting the geographic diversity In addition to the objective of inducting of the Groups operations.
The Groups internal new members of the top management The Board approved the latest version of the audit function works to align common internal team into the corporate risk management internal audit charter on 28 February 2017. audit practices throughout the Group via quality process and practices, this training session assurance and improvement programmes.
supported the improved risk management The internal audit functions role in the Group is reporting procedure that has been to provide an independent, objective, innovative, introduced as part of the transformation responsive and effective value-added internal Our approach to risk of the Risk Committee into the Risk audit service.
This is achieved through a Management Group.
Further training on appetite systematic and disciplined approach based risk management and development of risk on assisting management in controlling risks, Risk appetite is an important part of the management system is planned for 2017. monitoring compliance, and improving the risk management process that serves as a efficiency and effectiveness of internal control measure of the risks EVRAZ management is systems and governance processes.
Once a year, willing to accept in pursuit of value.
The Board the function provides an opinion of the overall has approved a risk appetite in accordance effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
with the risk management methodology adopted by EVRAZ.
Further information regarding EVRAZ internal control and risk management In 2016, EVRAZ head of internal audit, as processes can be found at www.
secretary of the Audit Committee, attended Risk appetite is considered in evaluating com governance control.
all the committees meetings and addressed strategies and setting objectives within the any reported deficiencies in internal control Groups strategic cycle, in decision making and as required by the committee.
The committee in developing risk management actions and continued to engage with executive management methods, as well as in identifying particular risks during the year to monitor the effectiveness of and uncertainties that require specific Board For the reports from each committee, internal control and, consequently, considered oversight.
The strategic objectives of the Group please see pages 110-129. www.
com 109 Audit Committee report Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the financial year ended 31st December 2016.
I am delighted to welcome Karl Gruber as a member of the Audit Committee allowing us to benefit from his extensive experience in the steel industry.
Over the course of the last year, I have visited our operations at NTMK, ZMSK and the Uskovskaya mine at Raspadskaya and will continue a rolling programme to visit all the key assets over the coming year.
Once again, I would like to extend the thanks of the Committee to the executive and financial management of the Company, the internal audit department and EY, our external auditor, for their continuing diligence and Deborah Gudgeon valued contributions to the work of the Committee.
Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee Role and Responsibilities Committee Members of the Audit Committee and Attendance The role and responsibilities of the Audit During 2016, the Audit Committee reviewed On 14 March 2016, Olga Pokrovskaya stood Committee are delegated by the Board and amended its terms of reference to reflect down from the Board and was replaced on and set out in the written terms of reference latest regulatory developments and the the Audit Committee from that date by Karl http: www.
com governance transformation of the Risk Committee into Gruber.
As a result, all of the Audit Committee directors committees.
the Risk Management Group as detailed members are Independent Non-Executive on page 33.
The revised terms of reference Directors.
Karl Gruber has extensive experience for both the Audit Committee and the Risk in the steel industry and enhances the sectoral Management Group were approved by expertise of the Audit Committee.
in the Corporate Governance Report page 104, Olga Pokrovskaya continues to attend Audit The Audit Committee minutes are tabled Committee meetings as an observer, providing at the Board meeting for consideration, additional technical expertise and valuable and the Chairman updates the Board orally regional expertise.
on the Committee proceedings, making recommendations on areas covered by its Senior members of the Groups finance terms of reference if appropriate.
function, the head of Group Internal Audit who acts as secretary to the Audit Committee and During the year, the Committee members the Risk Management Group, and the external undertook a self-assessment process to auditors also attend Committee meetings.
consider the performance and composition of Key members of the management team and the Committee, its duties and responsibilities, Risk Management Group are also invited to and access to management.
The results of this attend Committee meetings when appropriate: assessment were judged satisfactory.
An external in 2016, these included the CEO and VPs of assessment will be undertaken during 2017.
Strategy, Steel, IT, Security, Legal, Compliance and Personnel, the CFO of Evraz North EVRAZ also confirms its compliance, during the America plc hereinafter ENA and the Director financial year commencing 1 January 2016, with of Investor Relations.
Other members of the the provisions of the Competition and Markets EVRAZ management team and the Internal Authority Order 2014 on mandatory tendering Audit Function were also invited to attend and audit committee responsibilities.
110 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Audit Committee met 9 times during A verification process was undertaken by the material financial areas in which significant 2016 and 4 times in early 2017 before the management, and reviewed by EY, to review the accounting judgements have been made: publication of this Annual Report.
completeness and accuracy of the disclosure the critical accounting policies and and an updated report was uploaded to the substance, consistency and fairness of Details of committee attendance website and filed with the FCA.
management estimates: are set out on page 105 the clarity of disclosures: and In preparing the 2015 financial results, whether the annual report, taken as a management identified an undisclosed related whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, Activities and Work of the party transaction in respect of the prior and provides the information necessary year.
Although the transaction itself was not for shareholders to assess the Companys Committee during 2016 material, management reviewed and updated performance, business model, strategy, During 2016, the Audit Committee has continued the process for capturing, monitoring and principal risks and uncertainties.
to focus on the integrity of the Groups financial approving related party transactions.
This reporting, the related internal control framework review, and the accuracy and completeness and risk management, including finance, of the disclosures in the 2016 financial Financial reporting standards operations, regulatory compliance and fraud.
statements, were considered by the Committee and governance requirements These areas were comprehensively reviewed on and will be reviewed again during 2017. an ongoing basis and the Committee received The full financial statements can be found on pages 138-255. regular updates from the Companys financial The Committee reviewed and updated its own and operational management, Internal Audit, the terms of reference, the internal audit charter Compliance Officer and legal team, as well as the and the Group Financial Reporting Procedures The Audit Committee considered a number external auditors.
The effectiveness and status of financial reporting issues in relation to of the anti-corruption policy and sanctions risk the Interim Results for H1 2016 and the In line with regulatory guidance, the Audit compliance controls were reviewed throughout financial statements for 2016.
These included Committee undertook a tender process to the course of the year, together with progress to the appropriateness of accounting policies appoint an external auditor for the years meet the governance requirements of the FRCs adopted, disclosures and of managements ending 31 December 2017 and 2018, and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control estimates and judgements.
The Committee recommended the reappointment of EY to the and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
considered papers produced by management Board.
Further details of the tender process are on the key financial reporting judgements and included later in this report.
At the request of the Board, the Audit reviewed reports by the external auditor on the Committee also considered the proforma full year and half year results which highlight The Committee monitored the progress of the Viability Statement and supporting analysis any issues with respect to the audit work.
2016 17 financial transformation project which produced by management and reviewed by the includes migration of the operations of three Risk Management Group.
The financial statements continue to be impacted Russian accounting centres to one shared by fluctuations in the key functional currencies service centre in Novokutznetzk and changes In December 2016, EVRAZ received advance of the business primarily the Russian rouble to the operational model of the accounting notice from the Financial Reporting Council and, to a lesser extent, the Ukrainian hryvnia function, and considered the implications for of its intention to review the judgements and against the US dollar, the presentation currency the quality, timeliness and continuity of financial estimates disclosures in the 2016 financial of the financial statements, as set out in Note 2. reporting through the transition process and in statements as part of its thematic review.
As a result, challenging the consistency and the future.
The financial statements for 2016 comparability of balances in the financial were prepared under the existing reporting statements remains difficult but management structure and the Committee will continue to Significant Financial separate out where appropriate the forex impact monitor the migration process during 2017. on areas of significant judgements and estimates.
Reporting Issues considered by the Audit The Committee monitored the process The following financial reporting issues are Committee in 2016 for collating information and reviewed the considered significant.
disclosure required in support of the Payment to Government filing on the website at The primary objective of the Audit Committee Going concern Note 2 and the 30 June 2016 and to Companies House by is to support the Board in ensuring the integrity viability statement 30 November 2016.
This review identified an of the Companys financial statements and error in the original filing on the website in Annual Report including review of: EVRAZ is exposed to a range of risks and which an amount was erroneously classified as compliance with financial reporting inherent uncertainties as set out on pages 34-35, a payment to government.
standards and governance requirements: many of which are outside the control of the www.
2016 saw significant volatility in As a result of deteriorating market conditions raw material prices with a four-fold increase in in North America during H2 2016, management coking coal prices and steel prices rising 80% undertook a detailed review which resulted over the year.
The Audit Committee reviewed in the reduction of both volume and price managements going concern analysis which forecasts used in the impairment testing included both a base case and a flexed of these assets.
Of the $465 million impairment downside scenario which is based upon forward charge in 2016, $446 million relates to the pricing close to the bottom of the range of goodwill and PPE impairment of operations current investment analyst forecasts, and a in North America.
The balance of $19 million reduced level of budgeted capital expenditure.
relates to the specific impairment of PPE The Committee carefully considered the at other cash generating units including projected Use and Sources of Funds for the unutilised assets at Raspadskaya and Yuzhny period to June 2018 which includes scheduled Stan, and increased site restoration provisions loan repayments, new committed funding at Evrazruda and Yuzhkuzbassugol.
As the and free cash flow after capital expenditure.
operation of Palini e Bertoli has been restarted, Given the volatility of the current global supply the VIU was reassessed resulting in a partial demand environment, the Committee again reversal of the impairment already recognised focused on the pessimistic downside case on the idling of this asset.
The Audit Committee and the implications on free cash flow and considered this reversal and concluded that compliance with financial covenants.
Following these detailed considerations, the Other matters Audit Committee resolved to recommend the going concern basis of preparation for the In October 2016, EVRAZ entered into a contract Financial Statements as at 31 December 2016 to sell Evraz Yuzhkoks with consideration to the Board.
payable in a number of instalments to August 2017.
Completion of the transaction requires The Committee reviewed the analysis fulfilment of several conditions not fully within supporting the viability statement before it the control of the parties to the transaction.
was considered by the Board.
The Committee Management consider that the agreement has reviewed the scenarios that might challenge not yet become unconditional and continue to viability, the key assumptions in each scenario treat Evraz Yuzhkoks as an asset held for sale and the proposed disclosures in the viability in the financial statements, with consideration statement.
instalments already received classified as advances from customers in the statement Areas of significant accounting of financial position.
Given the uncertainty on judgement and management completion, the Audit Committee accepted estimates managements proposed treatment.
Impairment of goodwill and assets Property tax accrued and paid by production Notes 5 and 6.
The Committee considered subsidiaries has been reclassified from managements impairment recommendations general and administrative expenses to cost in the context of the current and future of revenue, and the costs and related expenses trading environment.
Testing was undertaken of certain personnel have been reclassified as at 30 September 2016 and reassessed to better reflect the current operational at 31 December 2016 when no further structure and make the financial statements impairment triggers were identified.
The more comparable with industry peers.
The continued weakness of the rouble means that Committee reviewed the implications of the the carrying values of Russian cash generating change and the adequacy of the disclosure and units remain low in US dollar terms and are were satisfied.
The implications of the change largely not challenged by the value in use are set out in Note 2. comparisons used to determine impairment, even in a negative pricing environment EVRAZ internal policy is to undertake a valuation During H1 2016, the organisational, cash of mineral reserves on a regular basis, at least flow and asset interdependence of the ENA every three years, but the valuation due in 2016 business was reassessed for the purpose of was postponed due to cost reduction initiatives.
impairment testing and the constituent plants A valuation will be undertaken during 2017 allocated to 5 new cash generating units based which will reflect the changes in mining plans upon the end markets they serve.
and expected long term prices.
112 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Fair, balanced completeness for maintaining registers of entertainment costs, business gifts, charitable and understandable and sponsorship expenditure at a number In considering whether the Annual Report of key entities during the year.
Based upon is fair, balanced and understandable, the the output, the mitigation plan and training Committee reviewed the information it had programmes will be updated to reflect the received, discussions held with management increasing maturity of these processes.
throughout the year and the preparation process adopted.
Management agreed the key In March 2016, Transparency International overall messages of the Annual Report at an produced a report on Transparency in early stage to ensure a consistent message Corporate Reporting: Assessing Emerging in both the narrative and financial reporting.
EVRAZ achieved a Regular meetings were held to review the score of 85% for its anti-corruption programme draft Annual Report and for management and compared to an average score of 48% for all Committee members to provide comments, the firms surveyed.
and detailed review of the appropriate draft sections were undertaken by the Sanctions Compliance Controls relevant Directors and external advisers.
The Committee particularly considered whether Compliance with the control processes, the description of the business, principal risks procedures and reporting framework and uncertainties, strategy and objectives were established to minimise the risk of breaching consistent with the understanding of the Board, sanctions was tested by Internal Audit during and whether the controls over the consistency the year, along with progress against the and accuracy of the information presented in recommendations of the Groups external the Annual Report are robust.
legal advisers, and found to be satisfactory.
The controls and processes for monitoring Taking into account the disclosure implications compliance are regularly updated to incorporate of the issues discussed in this report, the the latest guidance from the Groups external Committee recommended to the Board that, legal advisers and there is a process of taken as a whole, it considers the Annual continuing education of compliance personnel Report to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee recommended approval of the Groups 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements by the Board.
Both Risk Management recommendations were accepted by the Board.
and Internal Control This should be read in conjunction with Risk Management and Internal Other Matters Control section on pages 107-109.
UK Bribery Act UKBA The Committee continued to monitor the EVRAZ has an integrated approach to risk status of the procedures, controls and data management to ensure that the review and collection of the Groups anti-corruption consideration of risks inform the management policy and Code of Conduct, including the of the business at all levels, the design of regulation of interaction with state authorities internal controls and internal audit process.
introduced by the Company in November 2014, During 2016, the Risk Committee was and progress in respect of the areas for replaced by the Risk Management Group with improvement and implementation identified by membership comprising the Groups vicethe external audit in 2014.
A comprehensive presidents and chaired by the CEO.
framework for annually monitoring compliance with EVRAZ anti-corruption policies and The Groups financial reporting procedures, identifying risk was developed during 2016 internal controls, risk management by the compliance, legal and internal audit systems and activities are documented in a teams.
Using this framework, compliance comprehensive Financial Reporting Procedures was tested in November and December 2016 Manual FRP.
The manual was updated in indicating further progress in reducing risk.
December 2016 and reviewed by the Audit Internal audit also tested the procedure and Committee in December 2016. www.
com 113 The Risk Management Group attended Internal Audit the Audit Committee in October 2016 and presented the updated Risk Register and their The Audit Committee reviewed the internal recommendation on the level of Risk Appetite.
audit plans for 2017 and recommended These were reviewed by the Audit Committee, certain revisions in view of the macroeconomic along with the draft Statement of Principal environment, risk profile of the business and Risks and Uncertainties to be included resources available.
The plan was revised in the Annual Report, prior to the Boards to reflect the updated risk analysis and consideration.
to prioritise key business cycles and controls from a risk perspective.
Overall, the Committee Internal Audit findings on control issues that considers the current Internal Audit resource exceed the Groups risk appetite are reported to be adequate for the internal control and risk to the Board by the Audit Committee and management assurance requirements.
followed up by the Groups Management Committee and the progress on resolving The Audit Committee reviewed and updated issues is monitored regularly.
the Internal Audit Charter and Key Performance Indicators of the Internal Audit function The Audit Committee continues to receive in early 2017.
An annual assessment of the bi-annual updates on whistleblowing reports effectiveness, independence and quality of the together with a security report on the progress Internal Audit function was undertaken by way of follow-up investigations and resulting actions of a questionnaire to Committee members, in relation to fraud and theft.
Any significant management and the external auditors and whistleblowing report is reported to the was again found to be very satisfactory.
Committee on an ad hoc basis when it arises.
An external assessment of the Internal Audit function in the Russian Federation, CIS Assessment of the Groups risk and Europe was undertaken during 2015 profile and control environment and confirmed that it conformed to the International Standards for the Professional Internal Audit reviews the Groups risk and Practice of Internal Auditing, Code of Ethics control environment bi-annually and this and Definition of Internal Audit of the Institute is considered by the Risk Management Group of Internal Auditors.
In particular, the Audit Committee considered whether the The Head of Internal Audit is secretary to both accelerated reporting timetable and financial the Audit Committee and Risk Management transformation project had implications for the Group and prepares the minutes.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee tables External Audit the Internal Audit report judgement on the risk and control environment to the Board.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness and The Group continued the implementation independence of the external auditor, and of the IT security risk mitigation plan during making recommendations to the Board as 2016 and an external risk reassessment was to the re-appointment of the auditor.
undertaken in early 2017, revealing significant progress.
The mitigation plan will be updated Effectiveness and Independence by March 2017 to recalibrate the mitigation plan to reflect the progress already made.
The Audit Committee has an established framework through which it monitors the The EVRAZ policy on the level and economic effectiveness, independence, objectivity and terms of external insurance cover was reviewed compliance of the external auditor with ethical, by the Audit Committee in January 2017 and professional and regulatory requirements.
The Risk Register was These include: amended in 2016 to acknowledge the level review and approval of the external audit of self-insurance by the Group.
plan for the interim review and year-end audit, including consideration of the audit scope, key audit risks and audit materiality measures, and compliance with best practice: 114 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 review and approval of the external auditors market transactions and cyber security risk engagement letter: assessment.
Nonaudit fees were 14.7% of the review of the FRCs Quality Inspection Report 2016 audit fee of $4.1 million.
Irrespective of May 2016 https: www.
uk Ourprior approval of the CFO and Audit Committee Work Publications Audit-Quality-Review Chairman, all fees are reported to the Audit  Committee for noting and comment.
pdf and EYs response: consideration of the external auditors report The Audit Committee continues to consider EY on the Interim Review and Annual Report to be effective and independent in their role as and Representation Letters: and auditor.
reviewing the external auditors management letter on the 2015 audit with management, Re-appointment of the external considering managements response and auditor proposed actions, and requesting that Internal Audit undertake a follow-up audit In view of the UK Governance Code guidance of key areas.
on re-appointment of the external auditor and the EU legislation on audit regulation, the Audit The 2016 financial reporting timetable was Committee resolved in 2015 to undertake accelerated compared to 2015, and the Audit a tender process during 2016 to allow for the Committee gave particular consideration to appointment of an external auditor for the year the implications for the external audit process ended 31 December 2017. and the resulting early hard close, acceleration of substantive procedures and year-end roll A Request for Proposal was sent to six firms forward procedures.
who were judged to have suitable, relevant experience.
Interested candidates who could Following completion of the 2015 audit, Mr Ken confirm their independence attended a series Williamson was replaced as Senior Statutory of meetings with key management and with Auditor by Mr Steven Dobson.
Management the Chairman of the Audit Committee before and members of the Audit Committee also the deadline for submission of their proposals completed a questionnaire to assess the in the middle of July 2016.
Based upon these effectiveness and independence of the external submissions, management selected two audit process in 2015, which was found to candidates to make a presentation to a special be satisfactory.
meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considered both proposals and The Audit Committee holds regular presentations in accordance with a number meetings with the external auditor at which of pre-agreed specific criteria including management are not present to consider the steel and mining experience in Russia and appropriateness of the Companys accounting worldwide, experience of comparable complex policies and audit process.
During 2016, organisations, quality control and local team the external auditor confirmed that these experience, audit co-ordination and service policies and processes were appropriate.
Based upon this review, the Audit The Committee Chairman also meets the Committee concluded that Ernst & Young Senior Statutory Auditor regularly outside of LLP EY was the preferred candidate and Audit Committee meetings.
recommended their reappointment as external auditor to the Board for the years ending Engagement of the external auditor for non- 31 December 2017 and 2018. audit services is managed in accordance with the Groups policy which can be found on the Companys website: www.
This policy identifies a range of non-audit services which are prohibited on the basis that they might compromise the independence of the external auditor, establishes threshold limits for the level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees and authorisation processes for the approval of all audit and non-audit fees.
During 2016, non-audit fees totalled $612,000 and were primarily in relation to capital www.
com 115 Nominations Committee report Since EVRAZ Board was reduced to eight directors in early 2016, the Nominations Committee has monitored the Boards composition to ensure that it remains appropriate and continues to uphold the integrity of the Companys corporate governance.
As a committee, we are satisfied that this is the case but will continue to keep this in view during 2017.
Although we anticipate that there will be a period of stability in the Boards membership for the foreseeable future, the Nominations Committee is beginning to look at its long-term succession planning to ensure that new directors are brought on to the Board who can maintain and, where appropriate, further enhance the skills, experiences and perspectives Sir Michael Peat brought to bear on the Boards business and decisions.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Nominations Committee Role Board evaluation output The Nominations Committee is responsible for In early 2016, the committee reviewed the making recommendations to the Board on the output from the internally facilitated Board structure, size and composition of the Board and committee evaluation process undertaken and its committees, and overseeing succession at the end of 2015.
The committee conducted planning for directors and senior management.
a further evaluation exercise in late 2016 and considered whether there were any issues that needed to be reviewed in relation Committee members and to the composition of the Board.
Whilst no immediate issues were identified, the attendance committee continues to monitor any evolving The members of the Nominations Committee needs in relation to Board membership.
The at 31 December 2016 were Sir Michael Peat committee also considered the results of the chairman, Alexander Izosimov, Karl Gruber, Board Committees Effectiveness review Alexander Abramov, and Eugene Shvidler.
Sir questionnaires issued in October 2016 and Michael Peat served as the chairman of the collated for review in December 2016.
Nominations Committee throughout the year.
The composition of the Board Three of the five members of the committee and its committees were independent non-executives.
Following the resignations from the Board The committee met on two occasions during in March 2016, the committee considered 2016. the composition of the Board and the new composition of the Audit and Remuneration The CEO attended all meetings and the committees, and agreed that the size company secretary acted as the committees and composition of each was appropriate secretary.
to the ongoing needs of the Board and the Group.
The committee agreed that the Board represented a good mix of skills and Activity during 2016 experience, and that the Group had benefited from having a stable board and a group of During 2016, the committee considered the people who interact well.
116 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Succession planning Performance of the chairman and individual The committee considered succession directors planning for the future non-executive directorate, recognising the length of service The senior independent non-executive of each of the current independent nondirector sought views from all directors about executive directors.
The committee noted that the performance and contribution of the the process of succession planning would chairman.
The conclusions of this review were need to begin in the next three years.
considered by the independent non-executive directors at a meeting on 27 January 2017.
In August 2016, members of the committee It was concluded, as previously, that the joined the members of the Remuneration chairman continues to make an important Committee to receive a presentation from contribution to the Group, including his the chief executive officer on succession knowledge and experience of, and contacts planning among the senior executive team.
Prior to the Nominations The committee also received reports from Committee meeting on 27 January 2017, the the chief executive officer on the recruitment chairman of the Group and the chairman process for the chief financial officer, who was of the Nominations Committee discussed appointed in November 2016. the performance of the individual directors, including time available to devote to the Independence of non-executive Groups business.
directors The committee undertook a review of the Diversity policy independent status of the non-executive directors based on the provisions in the UK The Boards diversity policy is to have board Corporate Governance Code and confirmed membership that reflects the international the appropriateness of the independent status nature of the Groups operations and at least of each of the independent non-executive two women as board members.
Olga Pokrovskaya ceasing to be a director on 14 March 2016, this objective has been Best practices for Nominations re-introduced.
The Board will be reviewing Committee its diversity policy with a view to 33% representation of women on the Groups The committee undertook a detailed review board by 2020. of the most recent developments in corporate governance impacting the work of the Nominations Committee.
This included the FRC feedback statement published in May 2016 on UK Board Succession Planning: and the updated target set by the Davies Review for 33% of FTSE350 directors to be female by 2020.
The committee also discussed the joint report issued by Ernst & Young and the ICSA in May 2016, entitled Coming out of the Shadows 2017 priorities and used the 12 questions for Boards and The committee will continue to fulfil its general responsibilities with Nomination Committees set out in that report particular emphasis on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance as a basis for identifying future areas for Code, board diversity and succession planning.
In addition, it will development in relation to the role of the continue to consider development and succession planning for senior committee.
It will also provide and encourage training for directors and implement the recommendations from the forthcoming external review of the Boards performance.
com 117 Health, Safety and Environment Committee report Each year, we evaluate our HSE strategys strengths and weaknesses to ensure that our performance measures up to our stakeholders expectations and addresses their concerns.
EVRAZ HSE initiatives continue to bring life-saving improvements to our facilities.
We monitor the leadership teams activities to understand accountability and the overall efforts to change the safety culture.
Identifying and evaluating environmental risk continues to guide measurable improvements related to air emissions, water consumption and discharge, as well as reducing and recycling solid waste streams.
I believe the EVRAZ team demonstrates a willingness for continuous improvement, and as a committee, we believe the progress over the last Karl Gruber few years will provide long-term value-creation for our stakeholders.
Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of Health, Safety and Environment Committee Committee members raised and, where appropriate, making The committee has reviewed the HSE reporting recommendations to the Board concerning procedure and noted the effort taken by The members of the Health, Safety and the same: EVRAZ to improve the quality and transparency Environment Committee at 31 December 2016 Making whatever recommendations it of health and safety reporting.
It has were Karl Gruber chairman, Alexander Frolov deems appropriate to the Board on any area recommended to improve the report by shaping and Olga Pokrovskaya.
within its remit where action or improvement it to be more target oriented, both for each is needed.
division and for EVRAZ globally.
The committee has also supported the decision to extend the Role of the Health, The committee met on two occasions during reporting focus on micro injuries first aid cases 2016, on 3 February 2016 and on 10 August and medical treatment cases taken together.
Safety and Environment 2016 at EVRAZ headquarters in Moscow, Committee Russia.
The following sections summarise how the The Health, Safety and Environment Committee committee has fulfilled its duties in 2016. leads the Boards thinking on health and safety As per the 2016 plan, the committee chairman issues, as well as maintaining responsibility for together with the HSE vice president has environmental and local community matters.
visited Evraz North America production sites HSE Performance to review HSE practices, as well as a European Assessment of the Group Responsibilities of the Health, Safety and safety workshop conducted in Helsinki.
Environment Committee are: Health & Safety Performance Assessing the Groups performance with In addition to scheduled meetings, Committee regard to the impact of health, safety, members receive a monthly HSE summary Health & Safety performance is measured by environmental and community relations report and a quarterly HSE report is provided to the following metrics: decisions and actions upon employees, the Board.
Fatal incidents communities and other third parties, and on Lost Time Injuries LTI the Groups reputation: The committee has considered and approved Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR, On behalf of the Board, receiving reports the matrix with roles and responsibilities of the which is calculated as the number of injuries from management concerning all fatalities corporate HSE team, reviewed HSE initiatives resulting in lost time per 1 million hours and serious incidents within the Group and implemented during 2011-2016, and generally worked actions taken by management as a result of supported the initiatives carried out by the Cardinal safety rules enforcement such fatalities or serious incidents: Group in recent years.
Progress of H&S initiatives Reviewing the results of any independent audits of the Groups performance in Since August 2016, the committee has started The HSE Committee has continued to review regard to environmental, health, safety and the practice of inviting divisional operational the causes of all fatalities and serious community relations matters, reviewing vice presidents to discuss the current property damage incidents within the Group, any strategies and action plans developed challenges, as well as division-specific HSE as well as the follow up actions taken by by management in response to issues initiatives.
On the HSE Committees 118 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 suggestion, each fatality case was animated Non-mining waste and by-product It was noted that the corporate environmental using video format to provide a detailed generation, recycling and re-use management system has been developed description of the incident scene, sequence Fresh water intake and water management to prevent and mitigate environmental risks, of events, root cause analysis and corrective aspects as well as coordinate environmental liabilities, actions taken.
This practice will continue to ensure regulatory compliance and improve further if any fatality occurs.
The Committee has focused on the environmental performance.
It was noted management of air, water and waste issues, that the risk level has decreased due to the The committee members have reviewed the as well as related projects designed to implementation of mitigation measures.
status of 2016 H&S initiatives, and decided minimise environmental risks such as that priority HSE initiatives are generally on air emissions reduction, water usage and The committee members have reviewed the track.
It was noted separately that extra focus discharged water return into production, five-year environmental forecast representing should be added to improving the quality of metallurgical waste recycling, and has environmental performance: key air emissions, safety conversations.
concluded that in most areas the initiatives freshwater consumption and non-mining that have been started need to be waste recycling.
The model that was presented The committee has reviewed the alcohol testing implemented further.
was developed taking into consideration the process at various Group facilities and has future effects of environmental projects and suggested steps for further improvement of the The committee has reviewed the risks and investment projects with environmental effects procedure.
opportunities related to introduction of new baseline scenario.
It was noted that the risk development scenarios and asset disposal Additionally, the committee has reviewed the related with additional financial commitments plans affecting the reduction of emissions and Coal Divisions HSE initiatives, presented by due to environmental regulatory changes have freshwater intake were also taken into account Sergey Stepanov, the division vice president.
been reviewed in the framework of the Russian alternative scenarios.
The committee has noted that key initiatives Steel HSE Committee and consolidated have been developed to mitigate the major positions have been provided to the regulator.
For more details on HSE performance, industrial safety risks related to coal mining: see the Corporate Social Responsibility Improvement of ventilation and gas In addition, the extent of the Groups section on pages 75-83. monitoring system environmental compliance has been evaluated Five-year gas drainage program development by analysing a set of compliance metrics: Prevention of spontaneous combustions Non-compliance related environmental levies Prevention of caving taxes and penalties 20% face delays reduction because of rock EVRAZ environmental commitments tension and liabilities Major cases of environmental litigations HSE audit results review The committee has reviewed the plan and and claims EVRAZ operations are subject to HSE procedures for industrial safety audits of Coverage of assets by environmental compliance inspections undertaken processes and structural units at EVRAZ permits licenses by governmental supervisory agencies.
Its suggestions include improving Cases of public complaints The consequential risks of violating HSE the existing plan for audits at steel and ore Potential environmental incidents and regulations might be regulatory fines, mining facilities: the audits shall be organised prevention actions penalties or in the worst-case scenario as cross-audits by representatives of similar withdrawal of mining or plant environmental operations from other EVRAZ facilities, as In order to improve environmental compliance licences, which would halt operations.
decided by the HQ Industrial Safety Team: the management, the committee has discussed a audit intensity should correlate with the risks new approach in assessing the probability of The committee members reviewed: highest on the risk matrix.
environmental risks, and has agreed to update Findings of industrial safety audits the Risk Assessment Methodology by adding a performed by the Internal Industrial Environmental Performance Time Factor coefficient that takes into account Safety Department time limits for possible risk realisation.
This is Findings of audits of the HSE function In 2016, the committee reviewed EVRAZ intended to help management review and set performed by the Internal Audit environmental performance twice, including its priorities for environmental CAPEX expectations.
Department progress in achieving the environmental targets Status of external environmental set in 2012: The committee has reviewed the corporate inspection carried out by environmental Air emissions nitrogen oxides NOx, environmental initiatives and site risk mitigation authorities and implementation sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile projects introduced during 20 11-2016. of corrective actions organic compounds www.
