60 Governance UK Corporate Governance Code UK Corporate Governance Code It is the Boards view that the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in September 2014, throughout the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Corporate governance report, including the overview below, together with the Report on directors remuneration, explains how the Company has applied the Codes main principles and complied with its provisions during the year.
The information required by UK Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 7.2 is set out on these pages and the Corporate governance report, other than that required by DTR 7.2.
6R, which is set out in the Directors report.
The main principles of the How Experian has applied the principle UK Corporate Governance Code Section A: Leadership A.
1 The boards role: The company should be The Board meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties and has headed by an effective board which is collectively a written schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
The Chairman responsible for the long-term success of ensures that the Board agenda strikes the right balance between strategy, the company.
commercial objectives and performance monitoring, and the Board ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place.
2 Division of responsibilities: There should be a The Chairman, Don Robert, is responsible for the leadership and clear division of responsibilities at the head of the effectiveness of the Board, while the Chief Executive Officer, Brian company between the running of the board and Cassin, is responsible for the day-to-day management of Experian.
the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
3 The chairman: The chairman is responsible The Chairman sets the Board agenda, making sure to reflect the Boards for leadership of the board and ensuring its priorities or concerns.
He manages Board meetings and encourages effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
open and constructive debate on all agenda items, being clear about avoiding any sense of group think.
4 Non-executive directors: As part of their role as The Experian non-executive directors do this through the annual strategy members of a unitary board, non-executive directors sessions, ongoing Board oversight and monitoring of performance, should constructively challenge and help develop increased focus on Experians competitive position, and the evaluation of proposals on strategy.
risk in the context of the Groups strategy.
1 The composition of the board: The board and its The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee keeps Board committees should have the appropriate balance composition under regular review and, in the light of recent and of skills, experience, independence and knowledge upcoming Board departures, is focused on ensuring that the Board has of the company to enable them to discharge their the right skills, experience and knowledge reflecting Experians main respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
geographies and focus areas, as well as appropriate diversity.
2 Appointments to the board: There should be a There is a well-established process for any new Board appointments, formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the and this is led by the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee, appointment of new directors to the board.
under the leadership of the Deputy Chairman, George Rose.
This Committee is supported by internal and external resource, as appropriate, and its report sets out the process undertaken during the year for the appointment of Luiz Fleury.
3 Commitment: All directors should be able to The expected time commitment of directors is set out on appointment allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge and is contained in letters of appointment.
Board members also meet their responsibilities effectively.
with management and shareholders, prepare for meetings, make site visits and receive business presentations.
Any new commitments being taken on are notified in advance to the Chairman, so he can take a view on any potential impact on time commitment.
4 Development: All directors should receive Experian is a complex business and it is important that Board members induction on joining the board and should regularly are fully and properly inducted and immersed in all key areas.
As such, update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
a tailored induction programme is in place for all new directors, and highlights of Luiz Fleurys induction which would be typical follow.
The Chairman discusses training and development requirements with each Board member annually.
Governance UK Corporate Governance Code 61 The main principles of the How Experian has applied the principle UK Corporate Governance Code Section B: Effectiveness continued B.
5 Information and support: The board should be The Company Secretary and his team use the latest technology to deliver supplied in a timely manner with information in clear and relevant materials to all Board members, far enough in advance a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to of meetings to allow sufficient preparation.
The format and content of discharge its duties.
papers is monitored on an ongoing basis, to allow for improvement where necessary.
6 Evaluation: The board should undertake a The internal evaluation undertaken during the year is described later, and formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own was well received by the Board.
Next years evaluation will be facilitated performance and that of its committees and externally, and the Board will consider this during 2016, including who the individual directors.
Board should ask to run the process for the maximum benefit.
7 Re-election: All directors should be submitted for In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Experian directors re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued are subject to annual election or re-election.
The only exception for 2016 satisfactory performance.
is Judith Sprieser, who will not stand for re-election and will step down at the AGM.
Directors are only recommended for election or re-election on completion of their individual performance evaluations.
Section C: Accountability C. 1 Financial and business reporting: The This Annual Report contains all disclosures required under applicable board should present a fair, balanced and laws and regulations, as well as many others that are included on a understandable assessment of the companys voluntary basis.
The Board has put in place a rigorous process to ensure position and prospects.
that the Annual Report and the half-yearly financial report are fair, balanced and understandable.
This process is described later.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control: The During the year, the Board and the Audit Committee reviewed and board is responsible for determining the nature approved risk appetite statements for the Group.
These important and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take statements will assist the Board and the Audit Committee to manage the in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board Groups principal risks.
Risk metrics underpinning the statements will be should maintain sound risk management and included within the internal reporting cycle.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors: The board should These responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee by the Board, establish formal and transparent arrangements for and the Committees agendas which align with the Groups reporting considering how they should apply the corporate cycle include updates on material issues relevant to corporate reporting, reporting, risk management and internal control risk management and internal control.
The Committee ensures that there principles and for maintaining an appropriate is an appropriate relationship with the auditor and this is currently high relationship with the auditors.
on the Committees list of priorities, given the transition to KPMG LLP in respect of the audit for the year ending 31 March 2017.
Section D: Remuneration D. 1 The level and components of remuneration: The Report on directors remuneration outlines the way in which the Executive directors remuneration should be Group applies this principle.
designed to promote the long-term success of the company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
D. 2 Procedure: There should be a formal and These procedures are in place, and the Report on directors remuneration transparent procedure for developing policy which follows the Corporate governance report contains relevant details.
on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Section E: Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders: There should be a The Board is available to meet shareholders on matters such as strategy, dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual remuneration and governance.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings: The board All Board members attend the AGM and are available to meet informally should use general meetings to communicate with with shareholders who attend, before the meeting starts.
We know that investors and to encourage their participation.
shareholders who attend value this opportunity to meet the directors.
