62 Governance Board of directors Board of directors Don Robert Brian Cassin Lloyd Pitchford Chairman 56 Chief Executive Officer 48 Chief Financial Officer 44 Appointed to the Board: 6 July 2006 Appointed to the Board: 30 April 2012 Appointed to the Board: 1 October 2014 Appointed as Chairman: 16 July 2014 Appointed as Chief Executive Officer: Other current roles: None.
16 July 2014 Other current roles: Member of Court Previous roles: Chief Financial Officer Bank of England.
Non-executive director and Other current roles: Non-executive director Intertek Group plc.
Senior finance positions Senior Independent Director Compass J Sainsbury plc.
including Group Financial Controller BG Group PLC.
Financial and commercial roles Previous roles: Chief Financial Officer Mobil Oil.
Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer Experian.
Managing Director Greenhill & Co. Experian.
Chief Executive Officer Experian Senior roles Baring Brothers International, Key skills and experience: A qualified North America.
Various senior roles The London Stock Exchange.
accountant holding an MBA, with deep First American Corporation.
President financial knowledge and considerable Key skills and experience: Exemplary Credco, Inc.
experience, built up through a career working operational performance and contribution Director former GUS plc.
Past chairman in complex, multinational organisations.
A broad range of operational Consumer Data Industry Association.
Trustee Has held a wide portfolio of finance and competencies, including clear leadership and Sage Hill School, California.
Director and operational responsibilities during his career, strong, decisive management skills, coupled trustee National Education and Employer helping to deliver significant growth in with deep commercial acumen and a firm Partnership Taskforce.
Key skills and experience: Record of performance and of increasing shareholder value and highly regarded by stakeholders.
Has the right balance of competencies and the necessary experience to provide Experian with the leadership it requires for our continued growth and development.
Kerry Williams Roger Davis Luiz Fleury Chief Operating Officer 54 Non-executive director 59 Non-executive director 59 Appointed to the Board: 16 July 2014 Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 Appointed to the Board: 8 September 2015 Other current roles: Board member Other current roles: Chairman Experian Other current roles: Board Member Institute for Intergovernmental Research.
Non-executive FHMV Holdings, Sequia Logistics Group.
Chairman Experian Limited, Gem Diamonds Previous roles: Deputy Chief Operating Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer Limited, Sainsburys Bank.
President Experian and Member of Executive Board Cetip director Bupa.
Group President Credit S. A. Banco Ibi S. A. Redecard S. A.
Board Services and Decision Analytics, Experian Previous roles: Chairman Cabot Credit Member Credicard Group, Eneva S. A.
Chief Executive Officer Premium Outlet Malls.
Senior Vice President Barclays UK banking operation.
Board Key skills and experience: Has spent the General Manager Bank of America.
Various roles majority of his career in financial services, management positions Wells Fargo Bank.
and has extensive insight and deep local Key skills and experience: With a broad Key skills and experience: Over 20 years knowledge of the Brazilian financial market.
background in the financial services industry, experience leading and managing change at Considerable boardroom experience adds and holding an MBA qualification, has large global businesses.
Understands what to the strength, depth and effectiveness of immense experience and deep knowledge of is required to effectively manage a large the Board.
Experians business across the world.
organisation, as a result of extensive executive and non-executive experience.
Governance Board of directors 63 Deirdre Mahlan George Rose Judith Sprieser Non-executive director 53 Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive director 62 Independent Director 64 Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2012 Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2010 Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2012 Other current roles: Chairman Experian Other current roles: Lead Director plc Audit Committee.
Non-executive Appointed as Deputy Chairman and North America.
director and Audit Committee Chairman Senior Independent Director: 16 July 2014 InterContinental Exchange, Inc. NonPrevious roles: Chief Financial Officer Other current roles: Chairman Experian executive director and Remuneration Diageo plc.
Deputy Chief Financial Officer, plc Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Chairman Reckitt Benckiser Head of Tax and Treasury Diageo plc.
Senior independent director and Group plc.
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Audit Committee Chairman Genel Energy Diageo North America.
Vice President of Previous roles: President and Chief Executive plc.
Executive Vice President, Previous roles: Group Finance Director, senior finance roles Joseph Seagram and Food Operations, Chief Financial Officer Sara Director of Finance and Treasury BAE Sons, Inc. .
Vice Chair Royal Ahold N. V. Systems plc.
Senior finance positions Non-executive director USG Corporation, Key skills and experience: A qualified Leyland DAF plc, Rover Group and finance Adecco SA, Jimmy Choo PLC.
accountant with an MBA, with many years graduate trainee at Ford.
Non-executive experience in senior finance roles.
Spent time Key skills and experience: Relevant director National Grid plc, SAAB AB, as a board member, and as Chief Financial experience of providing insight into Orange plc.
Non-executive director and Audit Officer, at Diageo plc, so understands the customer decision making, and a wealth Committee Chairman Laing ORourke operational challenges of a global public of international knowledge.
Member Industrial Development company, and has the right financial expertise accountant and experienced non-executive Advisory Board.
to lead the Audit Committee.
director who has chaired both audit and Key skills and experience: A qualified remuneration committees.
accountant, whose career has included high-level finance positions, including at board level with BAE Systems plc.
Has held numerous non-executive positions with leading companies, adding to the collective strength of the Board in this regard.
Paul Walker Non-executive director 58 Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2010 Other current roles: Non-executive Chairman Halma plc, WANdisco plc.
Chair Newcastle Science City Partnership.
Audit Committee Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer, Remuneration Committee Finance Director, Financial Controller The Nomination and Corporate Sage Group plc.
Non-executive director Governance Committee Diageo plc, MyTravel Group plc.
Key skills and experience: Spent 16 years as chief executive officer of a FTSE Company Secretary: Charles Brown FCIS company, giving a great understanding of the challenges of running a global business.
An economics graduate and Independent Auditor: qualified accountant, with a strong  LLP, financial background and high-level Chartered Accountants and non-executive experience.
