74 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued NOMINATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT George Rose Chairman Current members George Rose Chairman Luiz Fleury Don Robert Deirdre Mahlan Roger Davis Judith Sprieser Paul Walker I am pleased, as Chairman of the Committee, to report on how the Committee has undertaken its role in the past year.
The Committees key role is to monitor the Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, and recommend any required changes to the Board.
We spent time during the year specifically considering the recruitment of a new non-executive director, and the key attributes that would be required for the Board, considering the current opportunities and challenges for Experian.
Given the importance of Brazil to the Group, we were delighted to recommend to the Board the appointment of Luiz Fleury as an independent non-executive director, and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
We also spent time during the year considering the renewal of Roger Daviss appointment term, and considering overall Board composition in light of Board changes during the year.
In terms of senior management succession plans, and the responsibility of the Board to ensure appropriate plans are in place, the Committee also continued to focus on the executive talent pool.
In March 2016, the Committee received a comprehensive executive succession and talent management update from the Group Human Resources Director and the Global Talent Director.
We met four times during the year ended 31 March 2016.
Of the seven Committee members, six including me as Committee Chairman are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive directors, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group Human Resources Director and the Director of Investor Relations and Communications are invited to attend certain meetings, as is the Chief Executive Officer, Brian Cassin, who provides valuable contributions.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
Governance Corporate governance report 75 Committees key roles Committee activities The Boards diversity policy and responsibilities during the year This policy is unchanged.
We strongly The Board strongly believes that good During the year ended 31 March 2016, believe that diversity throughout the governance and strong, responsible, the Committee: Group and at Board level is a driver of balanced leadership by the Board are business success.
We respect, value Reviewed Board effectiveness, critical to creating long-term shareholder and welcome diversity, including gender Board governance and non-executive value and business success.
As a diversity, and seek to reflect the diversity director succession, and deliberated Committee, our responsibilities include: of our client, investor and general on the appointment of a new nonemployee bases in our Board.
We recruit Ensuring that appropriate procedures executive director.
Recommended talented and diverse Board members, are in place for nominating, selecting, to the Board the appointment of Luiz who have the appropriate mix of skills, training and evaluating directors, and Fleury as a non-executive director.
capabilities and market knowledge to that adequate succession plans are Approved the process for the ensure the Board is effective.
internally facilitated 2016 Board recruiting, we look across all sectors Reviewing the Boards structure, size, effectiveness evaluation.
and non-traditional talent pools, and composition and succession needs, we require diversity of candidates on Considered an AGM briefing from the considering at all times the balance our shortlists.
Company Secretary, including voting of membership and the Boards results and shareholder feedback.
Process for Board required balance of skills, experience, Recommended to the Board that all appointments independence, knowledge and diversity.
directors except Judith Sprieser, who When making Board appointments, Identifying and nominating, for the has decided to step down retire and the Committee reviews and approves Boards approval, suitable candidates be considered for election re-election an outline brief and role specification to fill vacancies for non-executive at the 2016 AGM.
and appoints a search agent for the directors and, with the Chief Executive Reviewed the Committees assignment.
We disclose the name of the Officers assistance, executive performance and terms of reference, search agent and any other connection directors.
Board appointments are and considered the annual company with Experian in the next Annual Report.
made on merit and against objective law and governance update from the The specialist search company used in criteria, to ensure the Board maintains Company Secretary.
respect of the appointment of Luiz Fleury its balance of skills, experience, Considered the re-appointment during the year was Russell Reynolds independence and knowledge.
of Roger Davis as a non-executive Associates, who also provide other Reviewing legislative, regulatory and director for a one-year term with executive search services to the Group.
corporate governance developments any continued appointment to be and making recommendations to Meetings are then held with the search reviewed annually.
The Committee the Board, and ensuring that the agent to discuss the specification and noted in particular Mr Daviss Company observes the standards and the search, following which an initial experience as a Board member, and disclosures recommended by the UK longlist of candidates is prepared.
The that his re-appointment would aid Corporate Governance Code.
Committee then considers a shortlist Board continuity in the light of recent and interviews are held.
Ultimately, the Board and senior executive changes.
Committee makes a recommendation to Reviewed and discussed an update the Board for its consideration.
Following on the global executive succession Board approval, the appointment is and talent management programme, announced in line with the requirements comprising an update on executive of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys succession plans, progress against Listing Rules and, in due course, the Groups talent and diversity a tailored induction programme is and inclusion plans, and future developed for the new director.
