76 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Deirdre Mahlan Chairman Current members Deirdre Mahlan Chairman George Rose Roger Davis Paul Walker Luiz Fleury I am pleased to present the Committees report for the year ended 31 March 2016, and outline how the Committee discharged its duties during the year.
The overarching role of the Committee is to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, ensuring that any judgments made are appropriate, and that the external auditor is independent and effective in its role.
We also need to be robust in ensuring that the Group has an effective internal control framework, by reviewing the effectiveness of our system of internal control, including the risk management system.
I consider that the Committee members collective international experience enables them to act effectively in these areas.
The key focus areas this year, beyond the Committees standing list of business, included a comprehensive review of the clientrelated data security incident in North America in September 2015.
In particular, the Committee reviewed and received briefings from the Groups General Counsel on the sequence of events and the way in which the Group had been attacked.
The Committee also discussed the remediation actions, both immediate and longer term, that the incident had prompted, noting the comprehensive nature of the longer-term actions which reflected the seriousness of the incident, and the determined and thorough way in which the management team was responding.
The Committee also approved risk appetite statements, and recommended them to the Board p14 for approval more detail on the process underlying this is given in the Principal risks section and approved a tax policy for the Group.
An additional focus this year was on reviewing and agreeing the process for, and making recommendations to the Board on, the Groups viability statement as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
p78 This report also contains: details of the significant issues the Committee considered in relation to the financial statements and how p80 these were addressed: a brief outline of the appointment of KPMG as the Groups external auditor: and the Committees process for p79 concluding that this Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee was in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2016 and we met five times during the year, with four meetings timed to coincide with key dates in the Groups financial reporting and audit cycle, and one ad hoc meeting to receive an update on the September 2015 data security incident and approve risk appetite statements.
The list of Committee members appears above, and the Board considers all of them to be independent non-executive directors, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As well as Committee members, the Chairman and other Board members also attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Group General Counsel, Head of Group Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor also attend Committee meetings.
We also meet, as a Committee, with the external auditor and the Head of Group Internal Audit without management present.
All Committee members are considered to be appropriately experienced, but Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose are considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
Governance Corporate governance report 77 Discussing and concluding on the Reviewing and discussing an update Committees key roles 2016 audit plan with the external from the Head of Group Internal and responsibilities auditor.
The plan included the Audit at each Committee meeting, Monitoring the integrity of the external auditors response to including progress on any overdue financial statements and reviewing developments in the business during audit actions.
The Committee significant financial reporting the year, developments in the audit received details of the audit strategy, judgments contained in them.
process, the risk assessment of the reviewed and approved the annual Reviewing internal financial controls Group and the scope and coverage internal audit plan and, in September and the Groups internal control and of the audit.
2015, reviewed the conclusions of risk management systems.
an internal evaluation of internal Considering updates from the Reviewing the effectiveness of the audit comprising a number of external auditor on the audit process, audit process and the independence inputs, including a survey, quality namely details of the audits status, and objectivity of the external auditor.
assurance assessments and key key matters arising from the audit Monitoring and reviewing the internal metrics.
and assessments of managements effectiveness of the internal judgments on them, reviewing the Reviewing a variety of reports on audit function.
content of the independence letter risk, including updates on risk Developing and implementing policy and the management representation management, material litigation, on engaging the external auditor to letter, as well as engagement terms.
information security and business supply non-audit services, taking continuity, compliance and Receiving and considering into account relevant guidance.
updates from management on the Approving the external auditors requirements regarding the tender Reviewing fraud and confidential remuneration and terms of of the external audit.
Based on helpline updates, in September 2015 engagement, and making those updates, the Committee ran and March 2016. recommendations about their an audit tender process, through a Reviewing the effectiveness of the re-appointment.
working group led by the Committee Groups system of risk management Chairman, to conclusion in and internal control, including Committee activities September 2015, and the incoming financial, operational, compliance The Committees key activities during the auditor KPMG updated the and risk management.
year ended 31 March 2016 included: Committee on transition planning.
Debating and approving the Groups Received and reviewed reports from treasury policy, tax policy, an update Reviewing the preliminary and halfthe Groups General Counsel and to the Groups non-audit fee policy year results announcements and the external advisers, and discussed in and updated terms of reference for Annual Report: year-end accounting detail the client-related data security the Groups compliance function.
papers: papers supporting the incident that occurred in September preparation of financial statements Approving the Committees annual 2015.
The review and deliberations on a going concern basis: and papers meeting schedule and reviewing the were comprehensive, and the matter supporting the making of a viability Committees performance and terms has continued to be a standing statement recommendation to the of reference.
Committee agenda item to ensure Board.
For more information on Reviewing the Annual Report to that appropriate follow-up actions the matters considered in relation ensure it was fair, balanced and are taken.
to the going concern assessment, understandable and provided p118 please see note 2 to the Group information necessary to assess financial statements.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
78 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Significant issues The table below summarises the significant matters considered by the Committee in relation to the Group and Company financial statements and the manner in which they were concluded.
These matters, together with any other significant considerations of the Committee, are reported to the Board.
The minutes of each Audit Committee meeting are also circulated to all members of the Board.
Matter considered Conclusion Tax The Committee received a regular update from management The Committee agreed that the assessment of the uncertain on the adequacy of provisions in respect of significant tax positions was appropriate and that the judgment taken open tax matters.
The review included details of ongoing in respect of the year-end provision in the Group financial correspondence with tax authorities in the UK, the USA statements was reasonable.
and Brazil and the principal areas of tax challenge.
The Committee noted the evolving and complex tax laws that applied to the Group, and the uncertainty that these might bring.
It concluded that the Group tax risk disclosures were appropriate.
Data security incident The Committee received a thorough full briefing on the The Committee concluded that this matter had been background to the incident, which occurred in September appropriately provided for at 31 March 2016 and 2015, and the management actions taken as a result appropriately reported in the Group financial statements.
including those in connection with ongoing litigation.
In addition the Committee received an analysis of the insurance cover, accounting impact and the proposed disclosures in the Annual Report.
Impairment review A summary of the impairment analysis and underlying The Committee concurred with managements conclusion process was provided to the Committee.
The Committee that no impairment of goodwill was required.
scrutinised the methodology applied by management and The Committee noted the headroom and the sensitivity reviewed the cost allocation policies utilised.
The analysis to changes in assumptions and concurred with the indicated that all segments continued to have sufficient p142 proposed disclosure of these in note 19 to the Group headroom, and the headroom within the Asia Pacific cash financial statements.
generating unit CGU had increased during the year whilst the EMEA headroom had decreased.
Business disposals The Committee received an update on reporting aspects The Committee noted the position and the recommended of disposal transactions during the year.
was required to be reported as a discontinued operation for the purposes of IFRS 5.
Brazil An update was provided to the Committee on the litigation The Committee noted the progress made in resolving the in Brazil relating to the use of credit scores, and the related open matters and agreed the contingency disclosure p168 administrative effort to clear the backlog of the individual proposed in note 40 b to the Group financial statements.
claims following the earlier positive ruling.
Other litigation and regulatory matters The Committee received an analysis of the open litigation The Committee concluded that these matters had been and regulatory matters affecting the Group, and the appropriately provided for at 31 March 2016. associated financial reporting considerations.
The Committee considered and concurred with the proposed contingent liability disclosures included in the notes to the Group financial statements.
Governance Corporate governance report 79 Fair, balanced and understandable what did we do?
Each year, the Committee is asked Ahead of its March 2016 meeting, shareholders to assess the to consider, in line with the UK the Audit Committee received: drafts Groups position and performance, Corporate Governance Code, whether, of a large number of the Strategic business model and strategy.
in its opinion, the Annual Report is report components of the Annual The FBU statement appears in fair, balanced and understandable Report: draft governance material: the Directors report.
FBU and whether it provides a summary of the key features of The key areas to focus on include the information necessary for the Group financial statements: ensuring that: shareholders to assess the Groups papers on the appropriateness of position and performance, business accounting policies and impairment The overall message of the narrative model and strategy.
A process to reviews: and a paper from the reporting is consistent with the support the Audit Committee in external auditor.
making this assessment was put An internal FBU committee then The overall message of the in place in 2013, and we also use considered the Annual Report.
narrative reporting is appropriate, a similar process for the Groups A wide range of functions are in the context of the industry half-yearly financial report.
The main represented on this committee, as a whole and the wider elements of the process are: including executives from finance, economic environment.
communications, investor relations, The Audit Committee was The Annual Report is consistent legal and corporate secretariat.
previously apprised of the new with messages already The external auditor also supports requirement, and the Board communicated to investors, the committee.
confirmed that it required advice analysts and other stakeholders.
In advance of its May 2016 meeting, annually from the Committee on The Annual Report taken the Audit Committee received making the required statement.
as a whole is fair, balanced a near-final draft of the Annual The Committees terms of and understandable.
Report, together with a reminder reference were amended to The Chairman and Chief Executive of the areas to focus on.
The FBU reflect its new responsibility.
Officers statements include a committees observations and The management team responsible balanced view of the Groups conclusions were also relayed to for drafting the Annual Report has performance and prospects, and of the Committee.
been briefed on the requirement, the industry and market as a whole.
Following its review this year, the including by the external auditor.
Any summaries or highlights Audit Committee concluded that A list of key areas to focus on capture the big picture of the it was appropriate to confirm to see below was circulated to Group appropriately.
the Board that the Annual Report the management team, who are 2016 was fair, balanced and Case studies or examples are of asked to consider these areas in understandable, and provided strategic importance and do not their drafting.
the information necessary for over-emphasise immaterial matters.
80 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness, independence and safeguards were reviewed by the External auditor and appointment Committee included: assessment of Tenure and tendering Notwithstanding the tender process potential issues in relation to personal  LLP has been that was being run at the same time, relationships: employment of external the Companys auditor since the Group the Audit Committee reviewed the audit staff by the Group: business was demerged from the former GUS plc effectiveness of the audit process during relationships: services provided by the in October 2006. the year.
This process involves the Group: ensuring no contingent fees: the Audit Committee reviewing the annual level of fees: rotation of the lead audit During the year, in line with UK audit plan each September.
Then, in engagement partner, and the use of competition regulation and the March and May, it receives detailed separate teams, where appropriate.
The recommendations of the UK Corporate updates on the audits progress, which Committee concluded that the external Governance Code, the Audit Committee include details of the external auditors auditor had maintained independence undertook a tender for the external audit.
actions, such as the audit procedures throughout the year, and it is expected The Committee formed a working group undertaken, the audits coverage, the that similar safeguards will be in place led by Deirdre Mahlan, as Chairman of locations visited and the status of any with KPMG.
the Audit Committee, and comprising significant findings.
These updates other executive and non-executive Board Non-audit services give the Committee an insight into the members, including Lloyd Pitchford  has provided audit process.
Chief Financial Officer, as well as the a range of other services to Experian Group Financial Controller.
The working Finally, at the September meeting, the where its depth of knowledge of the group was supported by members of Committee receives an evaluation report Group supports the provision of the the finance, procurement and corporate on the external auditor.
It is anticipated that KPMG will secretariat management teams.
The questionnaires were issued to the nonalso provide such services, subject to process involved a number of working executive directors, executive directors the Groups policy in this area.
To ensure group meetings, sessions with relevant and senior finance leadership.
These auditor objectivity and independence, Group personnel to allow the tendering included questions on the robustness of the Company has a policy in relation to firms an opportunity to understand the audit, quality of audit delivery and the providing such services.
The Committee the Groups operations and corporate quality of people and service.
The overall updated the policy during the year, functions, interviews with suggested results were favourable, particularly in to take effect from 1 April 2016 see p81 lead partners and presentations to respect of the quality of the service, and following page.
It includes financial Board members.
the Committee concluded, based on this limits above which any proposed nonfeedback and information it obtained audit services must be pre-approved, The result was that the working group during the course of its other work, that depending on the amount proposed to made a recommendation to the Audit the external auditor had performed be spent.
Committee, which was approved by effectively.
As part of the evaluation, the The Committee receives half-yearly the Board and is subject to approval by FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees reports detailing non-audit assignments shareholders at the Companys 2016 was reviewed to ensure that the external carried out by the external auditor, Annual General Meeting, that KPMG be auditor was following best practice.
The together with the related fees.
Under appointed as the new external auditor.
Committee concluded that the Group the new policy, non-audit fees paid to The appointment of KPMG will take and the auditor had complied with KPMG will be capped at 50% of the fees effect for the financial year ending the guidance.
for audit services, except in exceptional 31 March 2017, and the transition circumstances.
Audit Committee or process is being led by the Groups Independence is an important element Audit Committee Chairman pre-approval finance team and is well advanced.
To ensure auditor will be required in that situation.
objectivity and independence, the There are currently no contractual  will operate Committee reviews potential threats obligations restricting the Companys under the Groups former policy until to independence and the associated choice of external auditor either conclusion of its term as external safeguards.
The safeguards that  or KPMG, auditor.
An analysis of fees paid to the  had in place and the Company confirms that it has external auditor for the year ended during the year included ensuring complied on a voluntary basis as a 31 March 2016 is set out in note 12 to appropriate responsibility for the taking non-UK incorporated company with the p135 the Group financial statements.
of significant judgments and decisions, provisions of the UK Competition and ensuring that appropriate pre-approval Markets Authority Order Mandatory Use for non-audit services is in place and of Competitive Tender Processes and consideration of the potential impact Audit Committee responsibilities for the of non-audit services on audit services.
Other areas in which potential threats Governance Corporate governance report 81 Provision of non-audit services Background Payroll services.
Immaterial services of some of the During the year, the Audit Committee above may be acceptable, if written Designing and implementing reviewed and approved an update to approval is obtained in advance from internal control and risk the Groups policy on the provision of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
management procedures and non-audit services, which has effect The appointment of the external designing and implementing from 1 April 2016.
The updated policy auditor for any non-audit work must financial systems.
represents a significant enhancement be approved by the Group Financial Valuation services.
to the existing policy and recognises Controller, the Chief Financial Officer, Legal services general counsel, the importance of the independence the Chairman of the Audit Committee negotiations and advocacy.
and objectivity of the external auditor.
or the Audit Committee, depending Internal audit services.
on the level of proposed expenditure.
Policy Expenditure is expected to be subject Services linked to financing, capital The external auditor may provide to a tender process and there is a structure and investment strategy services, provided that decisions to notification process in place if this unless audit-related assurance award work are taken on the basis of is not the case.
The Committee will in nature.
demonstrable competence and cost continue to receive half-yearly reports Promoting, dealing in, or effectiveness.
However, the external providing details of assignments and underwriting shares in the auditor is specifically prohibited from related fees carried out by the external audited entity.
the following areas of work: auditor, in addition to its normal work, Human resources services for and the policy will be reviewed annually Tax services.
hiring or reference checking in March to coincide with the approval Services that involve playing key management and finance of the following years audit fee.
any part in management or resource, organisational design decision making.
Work relating to accounting records and financial statements.
