64 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Governance framework Group Operating Committee Board Delegated committees authority flow The Committee comprises the most senior executives from the Group.
Its remit includes Audit Board identifying, debating and achieving consensus Committee on issues involving strategy, growth, people See Board section See Audit and culture, and operational efficiency.
focuses on ensuring strong communication and co-operative working relationships among p76 the top team.
Its meetings tend to be issues oriented and focus on selected Group issues Principal subsidiaries worthy of debate.
These are Group companies to which the Board has Strategic project committees delegated certain decisionglobal and regional making powers, for example Remuneration implementing decisions These committees comprise the most senior Committee agreed in principle by global and regional executives.
Their remit the Board: executive See Remuneration is to oversee a process to ensure that all management of the Committee report.
strategic projects are appropriately resourced, operations of the Group risk assessed and commercially, financially p82 within the strategy and and technically appraised.
Depending on the budget approved by the outcome of the discussions, the committees Board: acquisitions and conclusions are then considered by the Board disposals with a value up of the relevant Group company for approval.
to US$20m, and capital expenditure projects.
Risk management committees Nomination executive and regional and Corporate The Executive Risk Management Committee Governance Executive comprises senior Group executives, including Committee management team the executive directors and the Company See Nomination Secretary.
Its primary responsibility is to oversee and Corporate the management of global risks.
The regional Governance risk management committees oversee the Committee report.
management of regional risks, consistent with Operating businesses p74 Experians risk appetite, strategies and objectives, and are comprised of senior regional leaders.
Internal Audit Global Delegated Authorities Matrix Internal Audit conducts a range of independent audit reviews throughout the Group during the This key document comprises the schedule of matters year and is represented at each Audit Committee reserved to the Board, the Board committees terms of meeting.
Internal Audits plans, results and reference and the authority levels for the Groups principal key findings are presented to and discussed subsidiaries, directors and senior executives.
For matters not with the Audit Committee.
The internal audit reserved to the Board, the matrix prescribes the cascade of programme and methodology are aligned to the authorities delegated throughout the Group by respective risk categories and risk assessment parameters Group companies, together with their monetary limits.
The established by the global risk management matrix is reviewed and refreshed regularly and the Board function.
It also makes use of risk assessment monitors the exercise of delegations to the Groups principal information at a business level, in planning and subsidiaries, which are reported to it at each Board meeting.
Regional matrices are also in place.
Governance Corporate governance report 65 In addition, the Board has reserved Approval of Group policies including, Board certain key activities to itself for for example, an anti-corruption policy, Composition decision, including: a share dealing policy, a gifts and The Board currently comprises the hospitality policy, a global code of Chairman, three executive directors Strategy and management conduct, a global compliance policy and and six independent non-executive approving and overseeing Experians a tax policy.
long-term objectives and commercial Biographical details of individual Board meetings strategy, ensuring that the necessary directors are set out earlier.
The Board meets regularly and on financial and human resources are in an ad hoc basis when required.
Each place to meet the objectives.
Role scheduled meeting is normally held The Board sets the Groups strategic Management oversight reviewing over two or three days, with Board direction and ensures that we have operating, financial and risk performance.
committee meetings also taking place the necessary financial and human during this time.
This structure enhances resources to achieve our goals.
In Regulatory and statutory activity the effectiveness of the Board and January each year, senior management including approving the Groups its committees.
presents the proposed strategy for the results, key stakeholder documents following financial year to the Board.
The Board holds at least one overseas allows the Board to critically review the meeting each year, which allows Finance and treasury approving proposed strategy with management management across the Group to the framework for the Groups and, at the January Board meeting, present to the Board and to meet the finance, banking and capital consider the strategy for approval.
budget discussions in March ensure that the Board spent three days in So Paulo, we have the right resources to deliver the Brazil, and held Board and committee Appointments approving agreed strategy.
The discussions also meetings during the visit.
In March 2016, appointments, on the Nomination include detailed focus on both regional the Board spent time in Nottingham, and Corporate Governance and global business budgets.
United Kingdom, for a site visit and Committees recommendation.
The Board also monitors management and financial performance against the Groups goals.
To enable it to do this, Attendance at Board and principal committee meetings the Board receives operational and Nomination financial updates at every scheduled and Corporate Board meeting including competitive Governance Remuneration Audit analysis, and receives performance Board Committee Committee Committee and operational updates between Current directors meetings.
The Board also conducts Don Robert 5 6 83% 3 4 75% n a n a post-investment reviews on an agreed Brian Cassin 6 6 100% n a n a n a timeline, for any acquisitions it has Lloyd Pitchford 6 6 100% n a n a n a previously approved.
Kerry Williams 6 6 100% n a n a n a It is not appropriate for the Board to Roger Davis 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 100% be involved in managing the Groups Luiz Fleury from 8 September 2015 4 4 100% 2 2 100% 3 3 100% 4 4 100% day-to-day activities but it is accountable Deirdre Mahlan 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 100% to shareholders for delivering financial George Rose 6 6 100% 3 4 75% 4 4 100% 4 5 80% performance and long-term shareholder Judith Sprieser 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 4 4 100% n a value.
To achieve this, the Board has put in place a framework of controls and Paul Walker 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 100% delegated authorities, which enables Past directors the Group to appraise and manage risk Fabiola Arredondo to 31 January 2016 5 5 3 3 3 3 4 4 effectively, through clear and robust Jan Babiak to 13 January 2016 4 4 3 3 2 2 3 3 procedures and delegated authorities.
Alan Jebson to 22 July 2015 2 2 1 1 0 1 1 1 66 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued What did the Board do during the year?
The Boards key activities during the year are set out below.
These include activities related to the Groups strategy, which the Board decided on in light of its risk appetite and risk management processes.
Strategy Investor relations Governance and risk Reviewed and discussed Received an investor relations and Discussed regulatory matters with presentations at the annual strategy media update at each Board meeting.
the Group General Counsel at every sessions, including consideration of scheduled Board meeting, including the Reviewed and discussed draft the Groups objectives and priorities, client-related data security incident.
fulland half-year financial results opportunities to drive growth, a presentations, for analysts and Reviewed risk reports, the review of the Groups financial institutional shareholders.
appropriateness of preparing the and capital structure, and culture financial statements on a going concern Through the Remuneration Committee, and talent.
basis and the Audit Committees engaged with shareholders on Received strategy presentations advice on making a fair, balanced proposed remuneration arrangements on Driving for Growth, Marketing and understandable statement.
Services, Consumer Services, Approved risk appetite statements Health, Growth concepts and for the Group, reviewed the Data Quality: and action plans for recommendation of the Audit foundational priorities and regional Committee on the appointment growth agendas.
of KPMG as external auditor and Approved the Groups strategy approved that appointment.
Received regular updates on corporate responsibility issues and the annual environmental and health and safety updates, and specific updates on the UK Modern Slavery Act and the EU Operational and financial Market Abuse Regulation.
performance, including monitoring Reviewed Board evaluation findings and agreed areas of focus, authorised Reviewed operational and financial updates from the Chief Executive Board members potential conflicts of interest and approved the annual Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer at re-election of Board members.
each scheduled Board meeting, and Received details of Board received updates on an ongoing members external appointments brand project.
Reviewed monthly reports, including details of performance against budget and the Groups financial position.
Approved the Groups Annual Report Corporate development and fulland half-year financial Reviewed and discussed the results, and made recommendations corporate development pipeline regarding dividend payments.
Approved the entry into additional Approved or noted the disposal of a bilateral borrowing facilities and number of the Groups businesses, the US$200m increase to the in line with the Groups strategy of existing US$600m share focusing the portfolio.
Other Disposals included FootFall, Baker Discussed and approved the Groups Hill, the Groups consumer insights budget presentation for 2016 17 and businesses Simmons and Hitwise, received updates on Group insurance and smaller businesses in Estonia, and pension arrangements.
Approved a further capital investment Conducted post-investment reviews in the Groups Australian credit on the 2013 acquisitions of Passport bureau business.
Health, Pacific Micromarketing, Decisioning Solutions, LeadSpend and 41st Parameter.
Governance Corporate governance report 67 Board, committee and director effectiveness review The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
This year was the third in the Boards three-year review cycle, which is as follows: Year 1 a full external evaluation: Year 2 an internal review against the detailed Year 1 review: and Year 3 a questionnaire-based internal evaluation.
Year 3 2016 Year 1 2017 Year 2 2018 Questionnaire-based Evaluation by Internal review against internal evaluation external facilitator detailed Year 1 review In January 2016, each Board member was asked to evaluate the Boards performance in a number of areas.
These included: Board composition and expertise: Board dynamics: time management: strategic oversight: competition: operational oversight: risk management and internal control: executive remuneration: and technical development.
The Board also evaluated itself against the areas of focus it agreed last year, and a summary of progress against those items appears below.
Finally, the Board agreed on areas p68 of focus for the coming year, ahead of the full external evaluation next year, and these appear on the following page.
In addition to this process, each director met with the Chairman in relation to his her individual performance, and the output from the evaluation process was used to frame these discussions.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director evaluated the Chairman, taking account of input from the Chief Executive Officer and the other directors.
Each principal Board committee also evaluated its own performance.
Progress against the agreed 2014 15 areas of focus is summarised as follows: Area Specific focus Progress during the year Strategy Continued challenge of operating The Groups five key strategic priorities, including i driving structures and business models, to organisational efficiency, and ii a new capital framework, ensure they remain optimal in a changing continue to be embedded external environment.
Enhanced The Chief Executive Officer reports against the agreed reporting to the Board regarding Group strategy at regular intervals, through his standing execution of the Groups strategy.
Board report Reporting Enhance Board reporting to include Board reporting has been amended to more further metrics and potential additional comprehensively monitor business performance, non-financial indicators.
and to incorporate a section covering operations Board reporting now includes full metrics on, for example, sales performance and pipeline It is intended to include other non-financial indicators at appropriate intervals Risk management Development of risk appetite and Group Risk Management worked with external advisers and systems tolerance statements for principal and management to develop risk appetite statements risks: continuation of training in key The Group Operating Committee and Executive Risk information security and regulatory Management Committee reviewed the statements compliance areas: consideration of the The Audit Committee and the Board approved the statements UK Financial Reporting Councils FRC The Audit Committee considered the FRCs guidance Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
68 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Area Specific focus Progress during the year Board composition Continue to review Board structure Board structure and composition remain under review at and balance and composition: focus on succession all times, and a new Brazilian non-executive director was succession planning for the broader executive team appointed in September 2015 planning and development plans for identified Further in-depth review of Board composition by the shortto medium-term successors.
Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee in March 2016 In March 2016, the Committee received an update on executive succession planning Remuneration Renewal of the Groups longTop shareholders and others were consulted in early 2015 term incentive plans, ensuring The Remuneration Committee reflected on issues raised and that shareholders views and the noted the largely positive outcome recommendations of the revised UK Resolutions on the long-term incentive plans were submitted Corporate Governance Code are taken to shareholders for consideration at the 2015 AGM, and were into consideration.
approved average of 95% voted in favour Board working Receive thematic presentations covering There were several business presentations and focused areas that address the Groups strategic briefings during the year, as outlined in the Induction and p69 priorities and challenges.
Ensure training section that follows continued regular opportunities for nonA number of private non-executive Chairman meetings or executive directors and the Chairman dinners were held during the year to meet privately, whilst recognising the importance of the Boards inclusive structure.
Board development Continue an effective programme of Board visits to So Paulo and Nottingham during the year overseas visits to get a deeper view of The Board heard from various external experts, as outlined local issues, including risk and culture p69 in the Induction and training section that follows and the perspective of external experts.
The Board has agreed the following areas of focus for the coming year: Area Focus Competition Further development of the Boards understanding of the Groups performance relative to its main competitors and the potential impact of new entrants, ensuring that competitive considerations continue to be appropriately included in strategic thinking.
Risk Building on the development of risk appetite statements, ensure that the risk reporting to the Board and Audit Committee remains appropriate to enable them to continue to maintain effective oversight of the Groups principal risks.
Board composition Continue to review Board structure and composition, ensuring critical skills and experience are appropriately refreshed.
Board development Continue an effective programme of Board education and understanding of topics important to the ongoing development of the business, including from internal and external subject-matter experts.
Governance Corporate governance report 69 Business operations this included: Board support Conflicts of interest a global sales overview: a customer The Group Corporate Secretariat, The Companys articles of association service briefing: a data centre tour: a UK under the leadership of Charles Brown, allow the Board to authorise actual and Ireland strategic development and the Company Secretary, provides or potential conflicts of interest.
The financial overview: and Credit Services, administrative and logistical support to authorisation procedure involves Group Marketing Services, Decision Analytics, the Board.
The Company Secretary is Corporate Secretariat issuing guidance Consumer Services, 41st Parameter, also responsible for: and a questionnaire each August, asking Business Express and Mosaic business directors to identify any conflicts or overviews and product demonstrations.
corporate governance, statutory and potential conflicts, which the Board then listing, prospectus, and disclosure considers at its September meeting.
In The Board also received the following and transparency rules compliance addition, directors are expected to advise training and updates during the year: and reporting: the Company Secretary of any actual or shareholder services: and potential conflicts as soon as they arise, So Paulo, Brazil alongside the so the Board can consider them at the Board and committee meetings in corporate responsibility.
In the Boards September 2015, the Board received a He is secretary to the Board, its view, this procedure operated effectively comprehensive update on the Groups principal committees and the Global during the year under review.
Latin American businesses, including Strategic Projects Committee, and is updates on a sales transformation a member and secretary of the programme, operational efficiencies, Group Operating Committee.
positive data, new product initiatives, the competitive landscape, the regulatory All directors receive financial and environment and culture and talent.
operational information each month, to Balance of executive and help them discharge their duties.
Board non-executive directors Nottingham, United Kingdom papers are circulated at least a week at 31 March 2016 in March 2016, the Board visited our ahead of each Board meeting, to ensure operational headquarters in Nottingham directors have time to review them where senior leaders of the Groups before meetings.
UK and Ireland business briefed the Board on a number of important areas, Directors have access to independent including: the changing competitive professional advice at the Companys environment for Experian in the UK: risk expense, if they consider it appropriate.
and regulatory issues facing the Group: No director obtained any such advice customer needs and expectations: and during the year ended 31 March 2016. people, culture and the operating model.
A number of product demonstrations Induction and training were also provided to Board members.
There is an induction programme for Chairman all new non-executive directors.
Luiz Executive Other the Board also received Fleurys induction programme during the Independent non-executive technical and development updates, year comprised the following corporate as well as briefings during the year on and business operational sessions: matters including: health and safety: the Length of tenure of directors Experian brand: the Groups Consumer Corporate this included focused at 31 March 2016 Services business: pensions: and briefings on: strategy and Group history: compliance.
External advisers and a financial, budget and capital strategy clients also briefed Board members on overview: strategic planning, corporate information security matters and client development and competition: legal, perspectives in Latin America.
regulatory and government affairs: risk: information security and technology: corporate responsibility: remuneration, talent and people: audit: market-facing issues, media views and investor relations matters: and corporate governance.
The relevant corporate 05 years executives provided the induction, and Over 5 years meetings were also held with the external auditor and lead external counsel.
70 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Chairman and Chief Executive Officer There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
These responsibilities, which have been formalised in writing, can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, and are summarised below.
The Chairman, Don Robert, is responsible for the Boards leadership and governance, ensuring its effectiveness, setting agendas, ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and that there is effective communication with shareholders.
He facilitates the effective contribution to the Board by the non-executive directors, and ensures constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive Officer, Brian Cassin, is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business, in line with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
He is also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with the highest standards of ethics, integrity and corporate governance.
Chairmans responsibilities include: Chief Executive Officers responsibilities include: Running the Board effectively and ensuring that the Running the Groups business and developing the Groups Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in strategy and overall commercial objectives.
developing and determining the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and Implementing, with the executive team, the decisions of the corporate governance throughout the Group and particularly Board, its committees and the principal subsidiaries.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on the important information on the Groups performance and its issues, and strategic issues facing the Group and ensuring that the challenges and opportunities.
Chairman is alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues.
Ensuring effective communication with the Companys Leading the communication programme with shareholders.
shareholders, including by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other executive management, and ensuring that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the Companys major investors.
directors present at the end of each Senior Independent Director Non-executive directors scheduled Board meeting.
The nonThe Senior Independent Director is the Appointment executive directors also met a number Deputy Chairman, George Rose.
He Non-executive directors are initially of times this year with the Deputy is available to meet shareholders who appointed for a term of three years which Chairman, and without the Chairman have concerns that cannot be resolved may, subject to satisfactory performance present, and discussed matters through discussion with the Chairman, and election or re-election by the including the Chairmans performance.
the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief shareholders, be extended by mutual Financial Officer, or where such contact agreement.
They normally serve for a Independence is inappropriate.
maximum of nine years, through three The Board considers each of the nonterms of three years each.
executive directors to be independent in character and judgment and that there Meetings of non-executive directors are no relationships or circumstances In addition to attending Board and that are likely to affect or could appear committee meetings, the non-executive to affect each directors judgment.
directors meet without the executive Governance Corporate governance report 71 Relations with shareholders and others Set out below are some of the ways in which the Company interacts with investors and others, and keeps abreast of their views: Board an investor relations and media report is circulated before every Board meeting and contains a commentary on the investment communitys perception of the Company, media reports, share price performance and analysis.
Engagement with investors this year, Roger Davis, as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, consulted major investors and others in relation to future remuneration arrangements.
Investors and analysts the executive team has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings with institutional investors and analysts, at which they discuss a wide range of issues including strategy, performance, management and governance, within the constraints of information already made public.
The announcements of the annual and half-year results and trading updates provide opportunities for the Company to answer questions from analysts, covering a wide range of topics.
Investor roadshows took place during the year in London, Edinburgh, Boston and New York.
Annual General Meeting this important event provides a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with shareholders and to meet them informally before the main business of the meeting.
All directors attended the 2015 AGM, including the Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee chairmen.
The 2016 AGM will take place on Wednesday 20 July 2016 in Dublin.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend and to use the opportunity to ask questions.
However, if it is not practical for shareholders to attend, we encourage them to use proxy voting on the resolutions put forward, all of which with the exception of procedural resolutions are taken by a poll.
In 2015, voting levels at the AGM were 69% of the Companys issued share capital, compared with 69.3% in 2014.
Private shareholders the Company Secretary, Charles Brown, oversees communication with private shareholders, and ensures direct responses as appropriate in respect of any matters raised by shareholders.
The Company issues a Shareholder Questions card each year, with the AGM documentation.
Mr Brown ensures that the Company responds to shareholders directly, as appropriate, either at or following the meeting.
Website the Companys website is an important channel for communicating with shareholders.
All material information reported to the regulatory news services is published there, together with copies of annual and half-year results announcements and trading updates.
Investor relations app this contains information on our financial performance, together with reports, presentations and news of upcoming events.
Experian website The Experian website www.
com contains additional information on our corporate governance.
There you will find: Terms of reference of the principal Board committees The schedule of matters reserved to the Board The Companys memorandum and articles of association Details of AGM proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld Schedule of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 72 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing sound risk management and internal control systems.
There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks Experian faces, including risks relating to social, ethical and environmental matters.
This process was in place for the financial year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Full details of the Experian risk management and internal control systems and processes can be found in the Principal risks section of the Annual Report.
The specific processes underlying the elements of the Groups risk framework are set out below.
Monitor Maintain comprehensive risk registers representing the current risk and control environment, and deploy a software solution to provide enhanced monitoring Review of controls and follow-ups by management, Group Internal Audit and third parties Use Group Internal Audit to independently assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls Report on risk to the Audit Committee, addressing material and emerging risks, material litigation, information security and business continuity, regulatory compliance and social media Utilise the Audit Committee to monitor the Groups risk management and internal control systems Review by the Audit Committee each year of the effectiveness of Experians systems of risk management and internal control: receive an annual report on the controls over relevant risks: and ongoing review of principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Groups risk assessment processes Identify Assess the potential effect of each strategic, operational and financial risk on the achievement of our business objectives, and the Groups corresponding risk appetite Identify and escalate new, emerging or changing risks, significant incidents, significant control gaps and risk acceptance Consider external factors arising from our operating environment and internal risks arising from the nature of our business, its controls and processes, and our management decisions Analyse Produce Boardand Group-level finance reports, including financial summaries, results, forecasts and revenue trends, investor relations analysis and detailed business trading summaries Conduct regional-level detailed performance reviews Report to regional risk committees, the Executive Risk Management Committee and the Audit Committee on the status of principal and emerging risks, the progress of strategic projects and acquisitions, and escalation of significant accepted risks Report to the Audit Committee by Group Internal Audit on assurance testing and fraud and confidential helpline investigation results Evaluate Evaluate compliance with policies and standards addressing risk management, compliance, accounting, treasury management, information security and business continuity, fraud Follow formal review and approval procedures for major transactions, capital expenditure and revenue expenditure Monitor budgetary and performance reviews tied to KPIs and achievement of objectives Apply a risk scoring system, based on our assessment of the probability of a risk materialising, and the impact including speed if it does Require executive management confirmations of compliance with Experians corporate governance and corporate responsibility processes Mitigate Apply active risk remediation strategies, including internal controls, formal exception processes, insurance and specialised treasury instruments Use formal review and approval procedures for significant accepted risks Risk management is an essential element of running a global, innovation-driven business like Experian.
It helps to achieve long-term shareholder value and to protect the Groups business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
It operates at all levels throughout the organisation, across regions, business activities and operational support functions.
Experians approach to risk management encourages clear decisions about which risks are taken and how they are managed, based on an understanding of their potential strategic, commercial, financial, compliance, legal and reputational implications.
As risk management and internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, they can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
For certain joint arrangements, the Board relies on the systems of internal control operating within the partners infrastructure and the obligations of the partners boards, relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
Governance Corporate governance report 73 The UK Corporate Governance Code requires companies to review the effectiveness of their risk management and internal control systems each year.
As shown below, the Audit Committee performs this review under delegated authority from the Board.
Following the review, it is the Boards view that the information enabled it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, and that the system has no significant failings or weaknesses.
In addition, and in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee monitors the Groups risk management and internal control systems and robustly assesses the Groups principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Groups risk assessment processes including those that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and monitors actions taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
Internal audit reports Internal audit fraud and confidential helpline reports External auditors report Independent Corporate responsibility independent assurance report Review by relevant regulatory bodies e. g. US Consumer assessment Financial Protection Bureau Evaluation of external auditor Evaluation of Internal Audit Through a combination of ongoing and Annual executive certification of compliance with UK annual reviews, Financial Reporting Council guidance and control adequacy the Board is Risk management reports able to review Compliance reports Management the ongoing Information security reports assurance Material litigation reports effectiveness of Impairment, going concern and viability reviews the Groups risk Annual Report and half-yearly financial report review management and Management representation letters internal control systems Annual internal audit plan External auditors engagement letter External auditors annual audit plan Board Audit Treasury policy review Committee Tax policy approved Compliance policy review Global Delegated Authorities Matrix, which defines internal approval procedures Additional financial reporting internal controls We have detailed policies and procedures to ensure the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of Group financial statements.
This includes our comprehensive Group Accounting Manual GAM, which contains the detailed requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Groups finance team owns the GAM and we have rolled it out across the Group, obliging all Experian companies to follow its requirements.
The GAMs aims are to: provide guidance on accounting issues: enable consistent and well-defined information for IFRS reporting: provide uniform quantitative and qualitative measures of Group performance: and increase the efficiency of the Groups reporting process.
