FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee comprised all the Directors As part of the review of auditor independence and effectiveness, except the Chairman of the Board, Mr C Russell.
It is chaired by PwC have confirmed that they are independent of the Group and Mrs T Clark.
have complied with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating PwC, the Audit Committee has taken into consideration the standing, The duties of the committee include reviewing the Annual skills and experience of the firm and the audit team.
The Committee and Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls, and assesses the effectiveness of the audit process through the the terms of appointment and remuneration of the auditor, reporting it receives from PwC in respect of both the half year and  CI LLP PwC, including its year end Report and Accounts.
The committee is satisfied that PwC independence and objectivity.
It is also the forum through which has provided effective independent challenge in carrying out its PwC reports to the Board of Directors.
The committee meets at responsibilities.
least three times a year including at least one meeting with PwC.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year and the Internal Controls attendance of each of the members is set out on page 25.
In the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal course of its duties, the committee had direct access to PwC, senior control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It has therefore members of the Investment Managers and the Property Managers.
established a process designed to meet the particular needs of the Amongst other things, the Audit Committee considered and Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent reviewed the following matters and reported thereon to the Board: with the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting the annual and half-yearly reports and accounts: Council.
the accounting policies of the Group: As part of this process, a matrix has been created that identifies the principal risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness the Companys key functions, including those carried out by the of the Companys internal control environment: Managers and other service providers, and the individual activities the effectiveness of the audit process and related non-audit undertaken within those functions.
From this, the Board has services and the independence and objectivity of PwC, their identified the Companys principal risks and the controls employed re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: to manage those risks.
These are reviewed at each quarterly Board the policy on the engagement of PwC to supply non-audit Meeting.
The Board also monitors the investment performance services: of the Company against its stated objective and comparable companies and reviews the Companys activities since the last the implications of proposed new accounting standards and Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed regulatory changes: investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if the receipt of Report on Internal Controls in accordance with necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
In addition, the AAF 01 06 for the period 1 November 2015 to 31 October Board receives quarterly reports from the Company Secretary in 2016 from the Managers: and respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and the Company.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the As part of its review of the scope and results of the audit, during Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the the year the Audit Committee considered and approved PwCs Managers Report on Internal Controls in accordance with AAF plan for the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 01 06 for the period 1 November 2015 to 31 October 2016 that 31 December 2016.
At the conclusion of the audit, PwC did not has been prepared for their investment company clients.
Containing highlight any issues to the Audit Committee which would cause it to a report from independent external accountants, the report sets out qualify its audit report, nor did it highlight any fundamental internal the Managers control policies and procedures with respect to the control weaknesses.
PwC issued an unqualified audit report which management of their clients investments.
The effectiveness of these is included on pages 32 to 35. controls is monitored by the Managers group audit committee In relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, it which receives regular reports from the Managers audit, risk and has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the compliance department.
Procedures are in place to capture and auditor must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee and evaluate failings and weaknesses and ensure that action would any special projects must also be approved in advance.
In addition be taken to remedy any significant issues identified from this to statutory audit fees of 65,000 2015: KPMG 72,000, PwC monitoring, which would be reported to the Board.
No significant received audit-related fees of 15,000 for the year 2015: KPMG failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company were identified in 11,000 which related principally to a review of the interim financial the year under review nor to the date of this report.
The Audit Committee does not consider that the provides quarterly reports to the Board and carries out daily provision of such audit-related services is a threat to the objectivity independent checks on all cash and investment transactions and is and independence of the conduct of the audit.
liable for any loss of assets.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 27 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Report of the Audit Committee continued The review procedures detailed above have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
It has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Managers and the Company Secretary, including their internal audit functions and the work carried out by the Companys external auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
T Clark Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 April 2017 Significant Matters Considered by the Audit Committee in Relation to the Financial Statements Matter Action Valuation of the Investment Property Portfolio The Board and Audit Committee reviewed the outcomes of the The Groups property portfolio accounted for 92 per cent of its total valuation process throughout the year and discussed the detail of each assets as at 31 December 2016.
Although valued by an independent of the quarterly valuations with the Managers at Board Meetings.
The firm of valuers, CBRE Limited, the valuation of the investment property Managers liaise with the valuers on a regular basis and meet with them portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement by the prior to the production of each quarterly valuation.
Errors in the valuation could have a material impact on the represented at all of the quarterly valuation meetings with CBRE Limited Companys net asset value.
Further information about the property during the year, including the meeting in advance of the production of portfolio and inputs to the valuations are set out in note 9 to the the year end valuation.
In addition, this is the main area of audit focus accounts.
and, accordingly, the Audit Committee receives detailed verbal and written reports from PwC on this matter.
PwC also attended the yearend valuation meeting.
