FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Statement The Company is a member of the Association of Investment During the year the performance of the Board, Committees Companies the AIC.
The Board has therefore considered the and individual Directors was evaluated through an assessment principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate process led by the Chairman.
The process involved the completion Governance issued in February 2015 the AIC Code by reference of questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the Company, to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies discussions with individual Directors and individual feedback issued at the same time the AIC Guide, both of which can be from the Chairman to each of the Directors.
The evaluation of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Director in found at theaic.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate consultation with all the other Directors.
An external independent Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in board assessment was last carried out in 2015.
September 2014, which can be found at frc.
uk, as well as The following table sets out the Directors meeting attendance in setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues 2016. specific to investment companies.
The AIC Code also incorporates a framework of best practice for Guernsey-domiciled member Management companies.
Audit Nomination Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee The Board considers that it is appropriate to report against the No.
of meetings 5 4 1 1 principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance 1 C Russell 5 n a 1 1 Code.
T Clark 5 4 1 1 In September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission M R Moore 5 4 1 1 issued a Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance the GFSC P Niven 3 2 1 1 Code.
As the Company already reports against the AIC Code 2 B W Sweetland 2 1 1 1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code it is deemed to meet the P Cornell 5 3 requirements of the GFSC Code and has therefore not reported D Preston 5 4 1 1 further on its compliance with that code.
In addition to the scheduled meetings detailed above, there were Since all the Directors are non-executive, in accordance with the a further 15 Board Meetings and 1 Board Committee Meeting AIC Code and the preamble to the UK Corporate Governance held during the year.
Code, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the 1 C Russell is not a member of the audit committee role of the chief executive and, except in so far as they apply to non- 2 Retired 2 June 2016 executive Directors, on Directors remuneration, are not relevant to the Company, and are not reported on further.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek The Companys Articles of Incorporation require all Directors to independent professional advice on any matter that concerns retire by rotation at least every three years.
However, in accordance them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the UK Corporate appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
Governance Code the Board has agreed that all Directors will retire The basis on which the Company aims to generate value over annually and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
the longer term is set out in its objective and investment policy as The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are contained on page 10.
A management agreement between the considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as Company and FCIB sets out the matters over which the Managers such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, have authority and the limits beyond which Board approval must including the Chairman, has been imposed.
All other matters, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, corporate governance The Board, which is composed solely of independent nonprocedures and risk management, are reserved for the approval executvie Directors, regularly reviews the independence of its of the Board of Directors.
The Board meets at least quarterly and members.
All the Directors have been assessed by the Board as receives full information on the Companys investment performance, remaining independent of the Managers and of the Company itself: assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board each remains independent in character and judgement with no meetings.
relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 25 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Corporate Governance Statement continued Throughout the year a number of committees have been in place.
Relations with Shareholders The Company proactively seeks the views of its shareholders and Those committees are the Audit Committee, the Management places great importance on communication with them.
The Board Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The receives regular reports from the Managers and brokers on the committees operate within clearly defined terms of reference views of shareholders, and the Chairman and other Directors meet which are available for inspection upon request at the Companys with major shareholders at least annually and make themselves registered office.
available to meet shareholders when required to discuss any significant issues that have arisen and address shareholder Audit Committee concerns and queries.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be The Report of the Audit Committee is contained on pages 27 to 28. held on 31 May 2017 is set out on pages 60 and 61.
It is hoped that this will provide a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders Management Engagement Committee to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of the Company.
The Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting The Management Engagement Committee comprises all the are posted to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Directors and is chaired by Mr P Niven.
The committee reviews the appropriateness of the Managers continuing appointment together with the terms and conditions thereof on a regular basis.
It also reviews the terms and quality of service received from other service providers on a regular basis.
On behalf of the Board As stated in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 29 to 30, the full Board determines the level of Directors fees and accordingly there is no separate Remuneration Committee.
C Russell Director Nomination Committee 3 April 2017 The Nomination Committee comprises all the Directors and is chaired by Mr C Russell.
The Board considers that, given its size, it would be unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate nomination committee which did not include the entire Board and believes that this enables all Directors to be kept fully informed of any issues that arise.
The committee is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional Directors as and when considered appropriate.
Appointments to the Board are based on merit, but in considering appointments the Nomination Committee also takes into account the ongoing requirements of the Company and the need to have a balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity, including gender, and knowledge of the Company within the Board.
The Directors have not set any measurable objectives in relation to the diversity of the Board.
Whenever there are new appointments, these Directors receive an induction from the Managers and Company Secretary on joining the Board.
All Directors receive other relevant training, collectively or individually, as necessary.
