CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report which sets out our governance structure and highlights the governance activity of the Board and its principal committees during the course of the year.
The Board remains committed to maintaining good corporate governance practices throughout the Ferrexpo Group.
The structure, policies and procedures we have adopted, which are described in this report, the Directors Report and the reports of the various Committees, reflect this commitment, but we recognise the need to keep them under review and to make changes where necessary to ensure that standards are maintained.
The Board and management of the Group have a policy of conducting all business affairs in a fair and transparent manner and of maintaining high ethical standards in dealings with all relevant parties.
During the year the Board continued to focus attention on Non-executive Director appointments and refreshment of the composition of Board Committees, and the various changes are set out below and in my Statement on page 2, which also mentions the work of the Bank F&C review sub-committee and its recommendations on governance, which the Committee of Independent Directors has begun to follow up.
Information on Board succession is set out below in the Nominations Committee Report.
2016 saw several departures and arrivals, and we expect the rate of turnover to fall back again this year.
While accepting the principle set out in the Corporate Governance Code that Independent Non-executive Directors should generally serve for a maximum of 9 years, the Board believes that an experienced Director of independent character and views does not necessarily cease to be independent as soon as this period expires and that it can be in a companys best interests for that person to continue to serve for a short time, especially when as is the case with Ferrexpo the 9 years in question are those following the IPO when the company is following a steep learning curve and continuity on the Board is especiallyvaluable.
STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN Statement of Compliance In Accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R During the year to 31 December 2016 the Company complied with all relevant provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code which is available at www.
uk with the exception of: Provision D. 1.1 of the Governance Code which requires that performance-related remuneration schemes should include malus and clawback provisions.
As stated in the Remuneration Report on page 61, such provisions will be applied in future, subject to approval of the revised Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
6.2 of the Governance Code which requires Board evaluation to be  a least every three years.
An explanation for this non-compliance is set out in this report under Performance Evaluation on page 52.
Information Pursuant to the EU Takeover Directive The Company has provided the additional information required by Rule 7.2.
6 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules Directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of Directors: powers of the Directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report.
FERREXPO PLC 47 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED LEADERSHIP Governance Structure SHAREHOLDERS THE BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE OF CORPORATE SAFETY AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND 1 CID COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Responsibilities include: Responsible for reviewing Responsible for Responsibilities include: Responsible for Responsible for: Monitoring integrity of and approving all aspects identifying and nominating Ensuring compliance formulating and Execution of Board financial statements: of remuneration for for Board approval with Chapter 11 of the monitoring the approved strategies: Reviewing internal Executive Directors candidates to fill Board Listing Rules and the implementation of the Delegated authority control and risk and members of the vacancies, having due Relationship Agreement: Groups policy on CSR levels for senior management systems: ExecutiveCommittee.
regard to the need for Authorising if issues as they affect management: Relationship with appropriate balance appropriate related operations.
party transactions on implementation of group behalf of the Board: policies: Conflicts of interest All material matters not procedure under the reserved for the entire 2006 Companies Act.
More info: More info: More info: More info: Audit Committee Report Directors Remuneration Nominations Committee See page 49 CSR section on See page 49 page 55 Report on pages 61 to 76 Report on page 53 pages 37 to 43 1 The Executive Compliance Committee, the Finance and Risk Management Committee, and the Executive Related Party Matters Committee all report to the Executive Committee.
The Board The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing effective leadership and control required for a public company.
The Board has a formal schedule setting out the matters requiring Board approval and specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include: approving the Group strategy and budget: annual and long-term capital expenditure plans: contracts for more than a certain monetary amount: monitoring financial performance and critical business issues: approval of major projects and contract awards: approval of key policies and procedures including dividend and treasury policies: and through the Committee of Independent Directors CID, monitoring and authorising related party transactions.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to the Committees shown in the chart above to ensure compliance with the Act, FCA Listing Rules and the Governance Code.
The terms of reference for each of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and CSR Committee are available on the Companys website at http: www.
It is the responsibility of the CEO and the Executive Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
Role descriptions The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has been clearly established in writing and is agreed by the Board.
A summary of the roles of the Chairman, the CEO, the Senior Independent Director, the Independent Non-executive Directors and the Company Secretary is set out in the table below.
The table also includes an overview of the role of the Executive Committee and of the CID.
The roles of the Audit and Nominations Committees are set out later in this Corporate Governance Report, the role of the CSR Committee in the Strategic Report on page 38, and the role of the Remuneration Committee in the Remuneration Report on page 61.
48 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Role Description The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, setting its agenda and ensuring effective Chairman communication with shareholders.
The Chairman also ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
From time to time the Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Mr Lucass other current responsibilities are set out in the biographical notes on page 44.
There has been no increase in those commitments during the reporting period.
The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive team, to develop proposals for the Board to consider, and to CEO oversee and implement Board-approved actions.
Mr Zhevago has no other directorships of quoted companies.
He has other business interests and is a member of the Ukrainian parliament, but devotes the majority of his time to Ferrexpo.
Senior Independent The Senior Independent Director, Oliver Baring, in conjunction with the other independent Non-executive Directors, assists in communications and meetings with shareholders concerning corporate governance matters.
He also chairs the Committee Director of Independent Directors.
At least once a year, the Senior Independent Director meets the Non-executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Director is available to discuss with shareholders any issues that the Chairman has been unable to resolve to shareholders satisfaction.
The Non-executive Directors provide an independent and objective viewpoint to Board discussions and bring experience Non-executive from a variety of industry backgrounds.
Their role is to provide constructive support and challenge to Executive Management.
Directors Acting either as the Board or as members of its Committees, the Non-executive Directors: approve budgets: discuss and contribute to strategic proposals and approve strategy: monitor the integrity, consistency and effectiveness of financial information, internal controls and risk management systems: monitor managements execution of strategy against agreed targets and determine their remuneration accordingly: and monitor executive succession planning for Board succession planning, see Nominations Committee Report below.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and Company Secretary regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board on governance issues and for ensuring, with the Chairman, that information reaches Board members in a timely fashion, so that they are alerted to issues and have time to reflect on them properly before deciding how to address them.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is a key decision making body of the Group, responsible for managing and taking all material decisions relating to the Group apart from those set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
It has delegated responsibility from the Board for the execution of Board-approved strategies for the Group, for ensuring that appropriate levels of authority are delegated to senior management, for the review of organisational structures and for the development and implementation of Group policies.
The Executive Committee meets regularly during the year.
The CID is composed of the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Board and the other Independent Directors.
Committee of The Committee considers and, if appropriate, authorises on behalf of the Board related party transactions within the terms of Independent Directors Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and otherwise ensures compliance with Chapter 11 and with the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company.
The CID holds delegated authority to consider and, if appropriate, approve transactions where there is a risk of a conflict of interest for any member of the Board under the Companies Act 2006.
The CID keeps under review the authorisation and approval process relating to such transactions which have previously been reviewed in detail by the ERPMC see Conflicts of Interest below under Effectiveness and satisfies itself that, as required under the Relationship Agreement, related party transactions have been properly conducted at an arms length basis on normal commercial terms and in compliance with Chapter 11, and that no disclosures have been omitted or misstated in the financial statements.
The Committees terms of reference also cover the oversight of anti-bribery procedure implementation.
Board Composition As at the date of this report, the Board excluding the Chairman comprises two non-independent Executive Directors and five Nonexecutive Directors, all of whom are now considered by the Board to be independent in accordance with Provision B.
This structure ensures that the Executive Directors are subject to appropriate independent and constructive challenge by the Non-executive Directors, and that no single Director can dominate or unduly influence decision making.
The Board considers that Oliver Baring is independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding the fact that he joined the Board in December 2007 and has now served for more than 9 years: however, a successor to him is being actively sought.
Composition of the Board and Committees as at date of this report is illustrated in the table below: 1 Board members Role Audit Remuneration Nominations CID CSR S Lucas Non-executive Chairman K Zhevago Chief Executive Officer C Mawe Chief Financial Officer O Baring Senior Independent Non-executive Director Sir M Field Independent Non-executive Director V Lisovenko Independent Non-executive Director B Nacken Independent Non-executive Director M Reilly Independent Non-executive Director 1 CSR Committee also includes some members of senior management: see Strategic Report on page 38.
Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set out on pages 44 and 45.
FERREXPO PLC 49 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Activity in 2016 Five scheduled Board meetings were held in 2016, all in Switzerland, and the regular matters discussed at these meetings included: oral reports from the chairmen of the committees meeting before the Board meeting, and minutes of earlier meetings of the committees: Chief Executive Officers report including production and operations, iron ore market conditions, and updates on the position in Ukraine: Chief Financial Officers report including status vs. budget, forecasts, cash flow position, and funding update: Bank F&C review update report: Related Party matters including Directors interests conflicts : Investor Relations report including shareholder feedback : Strategy, Business Plan and budget: formal risk review: CSR matters, including health and safety and community spending: and Board refreshment succession planning independence Committee composition.
Matters reviewed as required included: review of half year or annual results, going concern, dividend policy recommendations, investor presentation: Board Chairman Director performance evaluation: review of AGM statement, and proxy agency comments recommendations: annual review of bank relationships within and outside Ukraine: and annual review of treasury policy.
Other ad-hoc matters considered by the Board at scheduled meetings during 2016 included capital projects and bank debt negotiations.
The Board visited the Groups operations in Horishni Plavni formerly known as Komsomolsk between 28 and 30 September 2016.
During that time the Board inspected various parts of the operations and community projects in the local area, received various presentations from executive management in respect of operations and strategy, and held an informal meeting at which many of its standard agenda items were covered.
In addition to its scheduled meetings and the site visit described above, the Board also held a total of 14 conference calls in the early part of the year in order to monitor cash flow and the situation around the insolvency of Bank F&C.
The Board usually met for dinner on the evening immediately prior to a scheduled Board meeting.
The dinners provided an opportunity for Directors to discuss key matters in a more informal setting, and therefore assist in promoting an open and constructive relationship between members of the Board.
The Board is supported by the Executive Committee which meets approximately monthly.
All of the information that is submitted to the Board by management is reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee.
EFFECTIVENESS Board Balance and Independence The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by both the Nominations Committee and the Board itself.
In November, the Board reviewed the independence of Oliver Baring shortly before he completed 9 years service on the Board, and, while noting that a successor to him is due to be appointed in the next few months, agreed that he continued to be independent in character and judgement and that he should therefore continue to be deemed independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Controlling Shareholder Relationship Agreement Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust which owns 100% of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the majority shareholder in the Company.
Consequently he, The Minco Trust and Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. collectively the Controlling Shareholder have entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company in order to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently, that transactions and relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust and Mr Zhevago are at arms length and on normal commercial terms, and that there shall be at all times a majority of Directors independent of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust and Mr Zhevago on the Board the Relationship Agreement under the Relationship Agreement Mr Zhevago would be entitled, if he was not the CEO, to appoint himself or another person as his representative Director.
The Relationship Agreement terminates if, inter alia, the shareholding of Mr Zhevago and his associates in the Company falls below 24.9%.
This Relationship Agreement complies fully with the UK Listing Rules.
The Board monitors compliance with the Relationship Agreement through the Committee of Independent Directors see under Conflicts of Interest below, which reviews the work of the Executive Related Party Matters Committee ERPMC both bodies are independent of Mr Zhevago, with the CID reviewing the minutes of the ERPMC and all related party transactions with regard to the Class Tests and the potential need to consult the Sponsor.
The ERPMC is authorised to approve transactions that are in 50 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 the ordinary course of business, without unusual terms: others are referred to the CID.
More generally, the CID keeps under review the independence of the Board and compliance with the Governance Code, as the Relationship Agreement requires.
Statement of Compliance with UK Listing Rules, Rule 9.8.
4 14 Ferrexpo has entered into a Relationship Agreement with its Controlling Shareholder, as required by LR 9.2.
2A R 2 a. Ferrexpo has complied with the independence provisions contained in the Relationship Agreement during 2016.
So far as Ferrexpo is aware, the Controlling Shareholder and its associates have also complied with the independence provisions during 2016.
So far as Ferrexpo is aware, the procurement obligation set out in LR 9.2.
2B R 2 a which requires the Controlling Shareholder to procure the compliance of the non-signing Controlling Shareholders in this case, the other beneficiaries of The Minco Trust and their associates with the independence provisions has also been complied with during 2016.
Conflicts of Interest The Board has an established procedure see Controlling Shareholder Relationship Agreement above to deal with Directors conflicts of interest and the recording, reporting and, where appropriate, approval of related party transactions and review of relevant disclosures.
This procedure is in line with published guidance, the Articles and the provisions in section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 on conflicts of interest.
Schedules of a Directors actual or potential conflicts and related party transactions have been compiled based on disclosures made by the Director.
These are updated and reviewed on a regular basis by the Executive Committee, the ERPMC which is composed of certain members of the Executive Committee and other members of senior management not including Mr Zhevago and the Committee of Independent Directors CID.
Any changes to the schedules are noted, and confirmed as correct, at the next Board meeting.
The CID has delegated authority to carefully consider and if deemed appropriate in the circumstances approve on behalf of the Board transactions where there is a risk of a conflict of interests.
This procedure operates effectively in identifying potential conflicts and ensuring that they are managed appropriately and that conflicted individuals are not involved in the relevant decision making process.
The Group aims to follow emerging best practice in this area.
Training and Professional Development The Chairman is responsible for agreeing training and development requirements with each Director to ensure they have the necessary skills and knowledge to continue to contribute effectively to the Boards discussions.
All Directors receive updates given to the Board as a whole on changes and proposed changes in laws and regulations affecting the Group, as and when necessary.
In addition, during 2017 it is planned to hold separate training sessions for the members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on recent developments in regulation and recommended practice.
Site visits are held for the whole Board annually, so as to ensure that all Directors are familiar with the Groups operations, and Directors may visit the operations of the Group independently to the extent to which they feel this is necessary.
During the year, as in previous years, the Board spent two days visiting the site in Ukraine.
In addition, training may be provided by the Groups advisers in respect of specific areas of interest to the Board, including general economic and market conditions, developments in Corporate Governance regulations and best practice and any other matters as agreed by the Chairman.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the expense of the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
Induction On appointment, all Directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a public listed company.
In addition, an appropriate induction programme is provided to each Director upon appointment, taking into consideration the individual qualifications and experience of the Director.
Following their appointments to the Board in 2016, Sir Malcolm Field and Steve Lucas received an induction briefing that took account of their previous experience and their specific responsibilities at Ferrexpo.
Where relevant these inductions included meetings with Directors and key members of the senior management team.
They were also provided with relevant information including the Companys most recent financial reports, Board packs and Group policies and procedures, and met representatives of the Groups significant shareholders.
Vitalii Lisovenko, who joined the Board at the end of the year, will be completing his induction in the early part of 2017.
Information Flow The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive timely and accurate information in order to enable them to discharge their obligations effectively.
Working with the Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that agendas, briefing notes and reports for each Board meeting are agreed and distributed to the Board in advance and in sufficient time to allow proper consideration of their contents.
The papers include reports on the Groups operations, and take into account the factors set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors duty to promote the success of the Company, and such factors are also considered by the Executive Committee when making any proposals and recommendations to the Board.
Decisions made by the Board are set within the framework of the Directors statutory duty to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Minutes of each Board and Committee meeting are prepared shortly after the meeting and their contents agreed with the Chairman or relevant Committee Chairman before being circulated more widely to the Board where appropriate.
Actions arising from the meetings are recorded and communicated as appropriate, and updates on outstanding actions are discussed at subsequent meetings.
Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have are recorded in the appropriate committee or Board minutes.
FERREXPO PLC 51 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Time Commitment Non-executive Directors would normally expect to spend at least two days a month, on average, on Ferrexpos affairs, and in the case of the Senior Independent Director, the Committee Chairmen and in particular the Chairman of the Board, considerably more than that.
All of the Non-executive Directors have been able to make themselves available for the majority of the ad-hoc Board meetings and update calls held in the year, notwithstanding their external commitments.
The attendance of the Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2016 is shown in the table below.
The Non-executive Directors are required to confirm at least annually that they are able to commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company, and all of our Non-executive Directors have given this confirmation in respect of 2017.
Board and Committee Attendance in 2016 1 Board 2 Director Scheduled Ad Hoc Audit Rem Nom CID CSR M Abrahams 5 5 14 14 2 2 6 6 4 4 K Zhevago 5 5 14 14 4 4 C Mawe 5 5 14 14 O Baring 5 5 14 14 4 5 5 5 2 2 6 6 Sir M Field 3 3 7 7 4 4 D Frauman 2 2 7 7 1 2 W Kuoni 5 5 14 14 3 3 3 3 2 2 3 3 V Lisovenko 3 S Lucas 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 I Mitiukov 5 5 11 14 3 3 3 3 B Nacken 5 5 13 14 2 2 5 5 6 6 4 4 M Reilly 5 5 13 14 5 5 2 2 6 6 M Salamon 2 3 8 12 3 3 2 3 1 Figures show number of meetings attended out of those the Director was eligible to attend: certain Directors joined or left the Board, and or were no longer deemed to be independent owing to their length of service, during the year.
2 Figures show regular updates held by conference call, mostly in the first half of the year, to monitor the Groups cash balances in the low iron ore price environment.
3 Steve Lucas is no longer a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees since becoming Chairman of the Board in November 2016.
Performance Evaluation The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out internally in 2016 by the Chairmen of these bodies.
The evaluation process involved the completion of questionnaires by Board and Committee members, with responses collated and analysed by the Chairmen with assistance from the Company Secretary.
Our last externally facilitated evaluation the Companys first was conducted in 2013 and was reported on in the 2013 Annual Report.
In line with the Governance Code, we had intended to conduct an externally facilitated performance evaluation process during 2016-2017, but later decided in view of the number of changes to the Board during the year that it is preferable to postpone this until 2017-2018.
The 2015-2016 evaluation of the Board focused on its behaviour following the loss of funds held at Bank F&C: it was concluded that the Board had acted promptly and prudently in response to this event by initiating discussions with lenders and shareholders, and monitoring the cash situation and trading of Ferrexpo on a weekly basis.
The conclusion of the 2015-2016 evaluation process was that the Board, its Committees, and each Director continued to function effectively during the year.
The 2016-2017 evaluation will, however, take account of the Bank F&C review sub-committees recommendations for improvements in corporate governance.
The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-executive Directors have evaluated, and will continue to monitor, the performance of the Chairman.
52 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
