STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, I succeeded Oliver Baring as Chairman of the Nominations Committee in July 2016 and am pleased to present the Nominations Committee Report for 2016.
The Committee met formally on two occasions during the year both of them prior to my appointment to the Board.
In addition to those meetings, members of the Committee were active in interviewing candidates for various Board roles and in recommending the appointment to the Board of Sir Malcolm Field, Vitalii Lisovenko and myself.
The Committee is also involved in the search for a Nonexecutive Director to succeed Oliver Baring as the Senior Independent Director, and it is hoped that an appointment will be made during 2017.
The Committee is currently composed of an independent Non-executive Director and the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee will focus in 2017 on achieving a more gradual process of Board succession than has been possible in the recent past.
STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 21 March 2017 Membership and Meetings The Nominations Committee is chaired by Steve Lucas and its other member is Oliver Baring: Michael Abrahams and Wolfram Kuoni also served on the Committee during 2016.
The Nominations Committee meets at least once a year, as required by its terms of reference, and met formally on two occasions in 2016 besides holding periodic meetings with search agents and interviews withcandidates.
Appointment Process and Succession Planning The Committee is aware of the Governance Code recommendation that Non-executive membership of the Board should not extend beyond nine years in an independent capacity.
The search for new Directors to replace the existing Directors as they gradually retire therefore continued during 2016 and led to the appointment of Steve Lucas and Vitalii Lisovenko as Non-executive Directors: Steve Lucas as Chairman designate he took over from Michael Abrahams at the end of November and Vitalii Lisovenko to succeed Ihor Mitiukov, also at the end of November.
Additionally, in March 2016 the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Sir Malcolm Field, with the main purpose of chairing the sub-committee conducting a review of the Bank F&C matter described on page 4.
In the case of Steve Lucas, after consulting the Nominations Committee about the skills and experience required, the executive search consultants Odgers Berndtson who have no other connection with the Company drew up a long list of candidates from which a short list were chosen to be invited for interview by the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee then recommended Steve Lucas as the preferred candidate, and he was interviewed by other members of the Board before being formally recommended to the shareholders for election at the AGM on 19 May 2016.
FERREXPO PLC 53 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In view of the circumstances surrounding the appointments of Sir Malcolm Field and Vitalii Lisovenko and the specific requirements of their roles, it was not possible to produce a long list of candidates, but Odgers interviewed both candidates, and the appointment process was in other respects the same as for Steve Lucas.
Succession Planning Succession planning continues to be considered by the Committee and the Board, in particular in respect of the search for a successor to Oliver Baring as the Senior Independent Director.
Re-election In accordance with the provisions of the Governance Code, it is expected that all Directors with the exception of Sir Malcolm Field who will leave the Board at the conclusion of the AGM will stand for re-election by shareholders at the Companys 2017 AGM.
Diversity The Nominations Committee and the Board recognise the importance of boardroom diversity in terms of background, expertise, gender and nationality, and strive to achieve it.
The Committee seeks to ensure that all available suitable candidates are taken into account when drawing up shortlists of candidates for possible appointments to the Board and seeks only to engage executive search consultants who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for executive search firms.
The final decisions to make appointments to the Board are however made on merit against objective criteria, so as to ensure that the strongest possible candidates for the role are recruited.
The Committee will continue to ensure that gender and other diversity is considered when conducting future searches for Boardpositions.
54 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
