MARY REILLY CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ACCOUNTABILITY Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present to you the Report of the Audit Committee for 2016.
During the year, the Audit Committee met 5 times and reviewed the Annual Report and associated preliminary year end results and the interim results, focusing on key areas of judgement and complexity and accounting policies.
Our Viability Statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 36.
In addition to its scheduled meetings the Committee conducted a tender process for new auditors, in accordance with the relevant requirements, which culminated towards the end of the year in a recommendation that Deloitte LLP should be appointed as auditors for the 2017 financial year, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The internal control and risk management procedures at Ferrexpo are set out later in this report and the main risks themselves are on page 28 of the Strategic Report.
Throughout the year, the Committee has robustly assessed the principal risks facing the business.
The significant issues and judgements considered by the Committee in respect of the 2016 Annual Report are set out below.
These include the matters relating to risks disclosed in the external auditors report and also include the utilisation of lean ore inventory and taxation risks in Ukraine.
In considering these matters, the Committee took into account the regular financial and internal audit reports made to the Board throughout the year, as well as discussing the issues with management and the external Auditors at intervals throughout the year.
Detailed disclosure is given in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on pages 100 to 102 of the significant areas of uncertainty in which estimates and critical judgements had to be made.
In order to satisfy itself that the accounting for these issues was reasonable and appropriate, and that disclosure in the Financial Statements was suitable and clear in each case, the Committee reviewed the papers setting out the procedures followed by the Auditors and the responses of management, and questioned and debated them with management and the Auditors at the Committees meetings.
These discussions were also informed by the Committee members own expertise, particularly with regard to the economic and financial situation in Ukraine.
At the end of this process, the Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of each issue and with managements exercises of critical judgement as disclosed in Note 4.
In accordance with Provision C. 3.4 of the Governance Code, the Board asked the Audit Committee to advise it as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In providing our advice more detail is included below we were mindful of ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts is read in the context of the current circumstances facing the Company.
Finally, the Committee reviewed the application of the new EU regulations that came into force in the summer of 2016 relating to the appointment of external auditors, particularly in respect of the provision of non-audit services see under activities for November 2016 on page 57.
FERREXPO PLC 55 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Following an internal effectiveness review, we remain satisfied with the performance, independence and objectivity of Ernst & Young LLP, our current external auditor: however, as a consequence of the tender for the external audit for the year ending December 2017 conducted in compliance with the new EU regulations, we have recommended that the Board should propose Deloitte LLP for appointment by the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
We are very grateful to Ernst & Young for their assistance and advice over the 10years since Ferrexpos IPO.
MARY REILLY CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 21 March 2017 Membership and Meetings The Audit Committee currently comprises four independent Non-executive Directors, Mary Reilly Chairman of the Committee, Oliver Baring, Vitalii Lisovenko and Bert Nacken.
Wolfram Kuoni and Ihor Mitiukov also served on the Committee earlier in the year.
All members of the Audit Committee and especially Bert Nacken with his long experience of the mining industry are considered to possess appropriate knowledge and skills relevant to the activities of the Group, and Mary Reilly is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience, including of accounts and auditing, due to her career as an audit partner with Deloitte LLP, and her experience as a member of the audit committees of other companies.
The Audit Committee met on five occasions during 2016.
Four of these were scheduled meetings, and one was an ad-hoc meeting convened to consider the draft Viability Statement for 2015 see Activity during 2016 below.
The attendance record of the Committee members is shown in the table on page 52.
In addition to its members, other individuals and external advisers, and the Chairman of the Board, may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee at the request of the Committee Chairman.
The Committee regularly meets the external auditors at the end of its scheduled meetings, without Executive Directors or management being present.
Activity During 2016 Key activities of the Audit Committee during 2016 are set out below.
Date Matters discussed March ad hoc Reviewed and approved, with input from Ernst & Young the external auditors, the Viability Statement for inclusion in the 2015 Annual Report March scheduled Reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and concluded that they were fair, balanced and understandable, and the draft preliminary announcement and recommended Board approval of: Financial statements Audit Committee Report Internal controls disclosures Going concern assessment and matter of material uncertainty Reviewed Ernst & Youngs report on the 2015 financial statements and the management representation letter Review of risk register Review of community support donations May scheduled 2015 year end-review including review of external audit process and Ernst & Young management letter Annual assessment of performance of auditors Review of procedure and timetable for audit tender Review of risk register Review of community support donations Internal audit update, including review of performance against plan 56 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Date Matters discussed July scheduled Review of half-year results, including: Discussed findings of Ernst & Youngs review of the results Financial statements Going Concern assessment External auditor fees proposal Internal audit update, including progress against internal audit plan, a report on the implementation of the Conflicts of Interest Policy, and a review of whistleblowing policy and arrangements Review of risk register Review of community support donations Regulatory developments including consideration of requirements for viability statement and reporting on payments to governments November scheduled 2016 year-end planning Review of Ernst & Young planning report Consideration of process to support Viability Statement Internal audit update Progress against internal audit plan for 2016, and approval of 2017 internal audit plan Report on whistleblowing cases during 2016 Review of risk register Review of community support donations Audit Committee performance evaluation: as a result of this a need for more frequent training and briefing on developments in regulation and practice was identified, and this will be addressed in 2017.
Recommendation to Board of amendments to Audit Committee terms of reference and procedures in the light of new EU rules on non-audit services December ad hoc Audit tender interviews The significant issues and judgements considered by the Committee in respect of the 2016 Annual Report are set out below.
These include the matters relating to risks disclosed in the external auditors report.
Issues Judgements actions taken Impact on the Going Concern Going Concern was reviewed formally several times during the period.
The Viability Statement covers Assessment and Viability a 5-year period: when reviewing it the Committee considered 5-year forecasts under various iron Statement of changes in the ore price scenarios and concluded that, even under a conservative scenario, Ferrexpo would remain ironore price viable see Viability Statement on page 36.
The insolvency of Bank F&C, The Committee has carefully monitored the situation regarding the legal claims of Group subsidiaries its accounting treatment as described in Note 35 to the Financial Statements.
and disclosure The reporting of Related The members of the Committee are also members of the Committee of Independent Directors, PartyTransactions and were therefore involved in the regular monitoring of Related Party Transactions.
The process by which the Community support donations are included in Ferrexpos annual budget and are subject to scrutiny funds comprised in community by the Board.
The donations policy is stated in broad terms in the Code of Conduct available on the supportdonations were Ferrexpo web site.
allocatedand controlled Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, which includes risk management, and monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee.
Key risk and control issues are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee, Finance & Risk Management Committee FRMC, CSR Committee and Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee and FRMC have established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process was followed throughout 2016 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key internal risks, it has established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards and has set up a framework for reporting matters ofsignificance.
Controls over Community Support Donations In 2016 Ferrexpo continued to support communities on a local, regional and national basis see A Responsible Business section of the Strategic Report on page 43 and Note 11 to the financial statements on page 107.
Community support activities take place exclusively in Ukraine, and donations are made within a Board-approved framework agreed annually at the time of setting the budget: they are subject to the internal control and approval limits applicable within the individual subsidiaries of the Group, which are set by the Board.
FERREXPO PLC 57 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Controls include: Annual expenditure approved at the time of the budget based on recommendations from the Executive Committee Subsequent approval of expenditure on a monthly basis by the Board prior to disbursement Approval at local level via the relevant management board Confirmation of application of funds for relevant community support purposes for each payment, typically US$500,000 Confirmation of compliance with relevant local and UK legislation Receipt and consideration of agreed-upon procedure reports in respect of the activities of the relevant community support funds by an independent firm of Ukrainian auditors The Groups compliance committee is tasked with ensuring compliance with relevant local and UK legislation and carries out third-party checks on the funds directors and, as far as possible, individual project managers.
During 2016 the Board received reports from the executive management and the funds concerning their activity, and two of the Directors attended an event taking place at the time of the annual Board site visit.
During 2016 the Board has exercised close oversight to ensure that community support funds are applied as directed.
The controls in place have developed following the increase in the need for community support donations due to the political upheaval of three years ago, and the Board is confident that the controls in place are sufficient.
The Board will continue to exercise close oversight of all community support donations and will, if necessary, further enhance controls during 2017.
Key elements of the internal control and risk management system include: Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the Executive Committee which are reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
The Executive Compliance Committee ECC, an executive sub-committee which meets regularly five times in 2016 is charged with ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and ethical standards on behalf of the Executive Committee or Audit Committee, as appropriate.
The ECC enquires into the ownership of potential suppliers deemed to be high risk: and oversees the management of conflicts of interests below Board level and general compliance activities including under the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and limits of authority for transaction and investment decisions, including any with related parties.
Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems, including regular forecasts and an annual budgeting process with reporting against key financial and operational milestones.
Investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary process, where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated authority limits.
An Investment Committee an executive sub-committee which meets as required in order to consider and approve capital expenditures within limits delegated, by the Executive Committee and the Board.
A budgetary process and authorisation levels to regulate capital expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals are submitted to the Investment and Executive Committees and then if necessary to the Board for approval.
The Finance & Risk Management Committee FRMC an executive sub-committee reviews financial information and management accounts, and meets regularly.
Clearly defined treasury policy details of which are given in Note 31 to the financial statements on pages 130-138 monitored and applied in accordance with pre-set limits for investment and management of the Groups liquid resources including a separate treasury function.
Internal audit by an in-house auditor based in Ukraine see below who monitors, tests and improves internal controls operating within the Group at all levels and reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and to the CFO for line management purposes.
A standard accounting manual is used by the finance teams throughout the Group, which ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent and detect material error and loss.
Anti-fraud measures through an internal security department operating in the Groups key operating subsidiaries.
A whistleblowing policy is in place under which staff may in confidence, via an independent, secure website, raise concerns about financial or other impropriety, which are followed up by Internal Audit and reported on to the Audit Committee.
The Board, with assistance from the Audit Committee, regularly reviews the policies and procedures making up the internal control and risk management system, and the significant matters reported by the Executive Committee.
The risk register, which includes details of the controls in place to manage and mitigate identified risks, is considered at every scheduled Board and Audit Committee meeting with specific risks discussed in detail as and when required.
The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management system to the Audit Committee.
In making its assessment, the Audit Committee considers the reporting provided to it during the year in relation to internal control systems and procedures, including the risk register, and may request more detailed investigations into specific areas of concern if appropriate.
In relation to Bank F&C, the Committee continued to keep the situation under review throughout the year in the context of risk management and the Going Concern assessment.
Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are set out in Note 31 to the financial statements on pages 130-138.
See also the Principal Risks section of the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 35.
58 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Internal Audit There is an internal audit function with a Group-wide remit, and the Head of Internal Audit, who has mining and international experience, reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CFO.
An internal audit programme for 2016, approved by the Audit Committee, focused on staff recruitment and promotion: the investment process at FPM: inventory management at FYM: and fuel and inventory management, and repair and maintenance, at DDSG: these were the areas of risk identified by the risk reviews carried out on an ongoing basis by the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Committee receives a report from the Head of Internal Audit at almost every scheduled meeting, and reviewed the progress of the internal audit plan with the auditors and the Head of Internal Audit periodically during the year.
The reports include the Head of Internal Audits assessment of the operation and effectiveness of relevant elements of the Groups internal control systems, and therefore form part of the Committees ongoing monitoring and assessment of such systems.
The Committee reviews at least annually the effectiveness of the internal audit function, and is satisfied, following its 2016 assessment, with the rigour of the audit projects and with managements response to the Head of Internal Audits findings.
An internal audit programme for 2017 was approved by the Audit Committee in November 2016.
External Audit Auditor Independence and Assessment of Audit Process Effectiveness The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Ernst & Young, when performing their role in the Groups reporting to shareholders.
The effectiveness of the audit process and the overall performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and the outcome of this review is relayed to the relevant partners of Ernst & Young.
This review takes the form of an assessment using a questionnaire of the auditors performance under various headings: the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery, and the calibre of the audit team.
In assessing the effectiveness of the audit process in respect of the 2015 year end, the Committee also took note of the information regarding quality assurance processes contained in Ernst & Youngs 2016 report to the Committee on independence, and the outcome of the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection of the firm, published in May 2016.
The auditors also provide to the Audit Committee information about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant current requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm, and other regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviewed these arrangements during the year and believes that they are still appropriate.
Non-audit Services In the light of recent developments in EU regulation, in November 2016 the Audit Committee approved amended policies in respect of the provision of non-audit services and the employment of former employees of the auditors.
These policies ensure that the external auditors are restricted to providing only those services which do not compromise their independence under the new guidance.
The policy on the provision of non-audit services prohibits the use of the auditors for the provision of transaction or payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and valuation of material financial statement amounts.
Any assignment that is proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of US$20,000 must first be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chairman who are routinely notified of all non-audit services.
Fees for audit-related and non-audit-related services performed by the external auditors during 2016 are shown in Note 9 to the financial statements on page 107.
Audit Tender Ernst & Young were appointed as auditors to the Company in June 2007 prior to the listing in London, and the Companys audit partner rotated in 2012.
Under EU regulations that entered force in 2016, the Company was required to put the external audit contract out to competitive tender for the audit of the 2017 accounts.
In the second half of 2016 six firms that appeared to have appropriate mining industry experience and familiarity with the region were invited to tender for the audit, of which three, including the incumbent auditors, were subsequently interviewed by the Committee.
Deloitte LLP were ultimately recommended for appointment.
Financial Reporting The Board has asked the Committee to advise whether it considers the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In providing its advice, the Committee noted that the factual content of the Annual Report and Accounts has been carefully checked internally, and that the document has been reviewed by senior management in order to ensure consistency and overall balance.
The Committee has also conducted its own detailed review of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts taking into account its own knowledge of Ferrexpos strategy and performance, the consistency between different sections of the report, the accessibility of the structure and narrative of the report, and the use of key-performance indicators.
The Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy and has advised the Board accordingly.
The Committee has also advised the Board on the process which has been undertaken in the year to support the longer-term viability statement required under the Governance Code.
The viability statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 36 and a statement setting out the Boards assessment of the Company as a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 81.
Whistleblowing Policy The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, and receives regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit which detail any new whistleblowing incidents and, where appropriate, steps taken to investigate such incidents.
FERREXPO PLC 59 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
