Corporate Governance Statement This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Board Responsibilities Report.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs and of corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
All matters place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is which are not delegated to the Companys Managers under the appropriate for an investment company.
Management Agreements are reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters reserved for the Board include decisions on strategy, Corporate Governance Codes management, structure, capital, share issues, share repurchases, The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance gearing, financial reporting, risk management, investment Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council performance, share price discount, corporate governance, the FRC in September 2014 and the AICs Code of Corporate Board appointments and the appointment of the Managers and Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of Company Secretary.
Investment Companies AIC in February 2015.
The FRC has confirmed that investment companies which report against the AIC Other than as previously disclosed in relation to Andrew Wells and Code and which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate Governance John Ford on his appointment, the Directors are considered to be will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and free from any relationship which could materially interfere with paragraph 9.8.
the exercise of their independent judgement and all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs responsibilities fully and effectively.
co. uk and the UK Code at www.
Company Secretary Statement of Compliance The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the year regulations are complied with.
Each Director is entitled to take under review and up to the date of this report, except in relation to independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the chief executive: expense.
executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
Board Meetings For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not discharge its duties effectively and the table on page 27 gives the relevant to the position of the Company, as it is an externally attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting year.
managed investment company and has no executive directors, The Portfolio Manager and key representatives of the Managers employees or internal operations.
are in attendance at these meetings.
The Board also makes an annual due diligence visit to China and meets the investment THE BOARD team and carries out company visits.
Between these meetings Board Composition there is regular contact with the Managers and other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and The Board, chaired by John Owen, currently consists of seven sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred to them from the Directors, six of whom are independent of the Managers.
It Board and the Chairman is in contact with the other Directors will revert back to six Directors when Mr Owen steps down at regularly without representatives of the Managers being present.
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2016.
Andrew Wells who is not seeking re-election at this Annual General Meeting will be replaced by John Ford.
The Directors believe that, between them, they have good knowledge and wide experience of business in Asia and of investment companies and that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge its duties and provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
During the year, Nicholas Bull was the Senior Independent Director fulfilling the role as a sounding board for the Chairman and as intermediary for other non-executive Directors where necessary.
26 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Nomination and Management Regular Remuneration Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings John Owen 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Nicholas Bull 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 David Causer 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Elisabeth Scott 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 1 Vera Hong Wei n a n a n a n a Andrew Wells 4 4 1 1 n a n a 1 Appointed on 24 March 2016 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals.
Changes to the Board Board Evaluation Changes to the Board take place in accordance with the An annual process for the evaluation of the Board and its Directors Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association and and Committees is in place and undertaken ahead of the Annual the AIC Code.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee General Meetings.
It takes the form of written questionnaires is responsible for identifying possible candidates, however, any and discussions.
For the year under review, the performance proposal for a new Director will be discussed and approved by and contribution to the Company of each Director holding was the entire Board.
The performance of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Director.
It was Director Training concluded that in each case the Chairman and Directors have been effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant to their roles.
The process is considered to be constructive in terms information regarding the Company and receives training on the of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance investment operations and administration functions of the Company, of the Board and action is taken on the basis of the results.
The together with a summary of their duties and responsibilities to the Board considers tenure as one of the matters under review during Company.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst Director evaluations.
others, the AIC, the Companys Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in law or As a constituent member of the FTSE 350 Index, and in regulations that affect the Company and or the Directors.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company is required to carry out an externally Election and Re-Election facilitated evaluation of the Board every third year.
The next As required by company law, all newly appointed Directors stand external evaluation will be for the year ending 31 March 2018. for election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
As a constituent Directors Remuneration member of the FTSE 350 Index, all other Directors are subject to annual re-election by the shareholders and the Nomination and Full details of the Companys Remuneration Policy and Directors Remuneration Committee the Committee recommend to the fees are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Board that all Directors, with the exception of John Owen and 31 and 32.
Directors share interests are disclosed on page 33.
Andrew Wells, should seek re-election for the forthcoming year.
The names of Directors submitted for election and re-election are BOARD COMMITTEES accompanied by sufficient biographical details on pages 21 and The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate 22 to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The governance responsibilities through four Committees as set out terms and letters of appointment of Directors are available for below.
inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be available prior to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 27 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Corporate Governance Statement continued Terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, Company: shareholder relations and discount management: the Management Engagement and Investment Committees are Management Agreements, including fees, notice periods and available on the Companys pages of the Managers website at duties: and marketing to secure potential long-term investors.
The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the Audit Committee performance of the Managers taking into consideration the above items and has concluded that it was in the interests of The Audit Committee is chaired by David Causer and consists of shareholders that the Management Agreements should continue.
all the Directors, except Andrew Wells and John Ford for reasons Details of the Management Agreements and the current annual stated on page 23.
Full details of the Companys Audit Committee management fee and the performance fee are in the Directors have been disclosed in the Report of the Audit Committee on Report on page 23. pages 35 and 36.
The Committee meets at least once a year and makes Nomination and Remuneration Committee recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is chaired by Nicholas Bull and consists of all the Directors.
It is charged with Investment Committee nominating new Directors for consideration by the Board, and The Investment Committee is chaired by Peter Pleydell-Bouverie subsequent approval by shareholders.
External consultants, who and consists of all the Directors.
A representative of the have no connection with the Company, may be used to identify Unlisted Investment Manager, with the requisite investment potential candidates.
This was the case in this reporting year when experience, attends the Committee meetings on an advisory The Inzito Partnership was used to identify candidates and Vera basis.
The Committee collectively has sufficient recent and Hong Weis appointment was through this process.
The search relevant investment and financial experience to discharge its for a candidate is carried out against a set of objective criteria, responsibilities fully.
with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
New Directors are appointed on the basis of merit and The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the care is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to ongoing performance of the investments: discussing with the devote to the role.
Investment Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios: reviewing all investments including pre-IPO opportunities: and The Committee also considers the election and re-election of reporting to the Board on a periodic basis.
Directors ahead of each Annual General Meeting.
It also concerns itself with the remuneration of the Directors, The Committee meets when appropriate or as required by the considering their roles and the responsibilities and the time Chairman of the Committee.
involved in carrying out their duties effectively.
It also makes itself aware of the directors fees of other investment trust companies ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT and comparable entities.
Details of this can be found in The Financial Reporting Remuneration Policy on page 31.
Set out on page 34 is a statement by the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report The Committee meets at least once a year and makes and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on pages 37 to 42.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by John The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and Owen and consists of all the Directors, except Andrew Wells and understandable assessment of annual and interim reports, other John Ford for reasons stated on page 23. price sensitive public reports, as well as to provide information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
All such The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the reports are reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their performance of the Managers and for ensuring that the terms of issue to ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
the Management Agreements remain competitive and reasonable for shareholders.
Risk Management and Internal Controls The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk The criteria taken into consideration in reviewing the performance management and internal controls and for reviewing their of the Managers are the quality of the team: commitment effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than of the Managers to the Company and investment company eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can business: investment management skills, experience and track only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against record: administration, accounting and the secretaryship of the material misstatement or loss.
28 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance and the governance framework for training, communication, of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with Company although these tasks have been delegated onadayenforcing action as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero to-day basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational tolerance policy in this regard.
and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have been established between the Board and Responsibility as an Institutional Shareholder the Manager.
The Manager provides regular reports on controls The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in and compliance issues to the Audit Committee and theBoard.
These Principles include the pursuit of an In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee has regard to active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, the activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a risk functions and the independent Auditor and also includes continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
consideration of internal controls of similar reports issued bythe The Managers, in their Principles of Ownership, expressly declare other service providers.
that they support the Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders The Board confirms that there is an effective ongoing process for and agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced Ownership and voting may be found at www.
by the Company, and that it has been in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2016 and up to the date of this report.
This Relations with Shareholders process is in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by both Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial the Board and the Managers.
All Directors are made aware of Business Reporting guidance.
shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors are available to meet with major The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The Board and has determined that the systems and procedures employed regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and by the Managers provide sufficient assurance that a sound system liaises with the Managers and the Companys broker to canvass of internal controls is maintained to safeguard shareholders shareholder opinion and communicate its views to shareholders.
investments and the Companys assets.
An internal audit function, The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
between the Company and shareholders.
It believes that the The Audit Committee meets the Managers internal audit Companys institutional shareholders have proper access to the representative at least three times a year.
Managers at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they Whistle-Blowing Procedure should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good page 75. service pursuant to the Management Agreements include the ability for employees of FIL to raise concerns through a workplace All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
FIL Meeting on 22 July 2016 at which there will be a presentation by has advised the Board that it is committed to providing the highest Dale Nicholls, the Portfolio Manager, of the past years results and level of service to its customers and to applying the highest prospects for the forthcoming year.
There will be an opportunity standards of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of to meet the Board, Portfolio Manager and representatives of the the policy is to encourage employees and others working for Managers.
The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity FIL to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other to speak to shareholders.
malpractice within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been endorsed accordingly by the The Notice of Meeting on pages 66 and 67 sets out the business Board.
of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the Annual Report Bribery Act 2010 and Financial Statements.
The Chairman and the other members The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, of the Board will be available to answer questions at the Annual honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days Managers, the Investment Managers employees and others before the Meeting.
acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 29 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Corporate Governance Statement continued Voting rights in the Companys shares Every shareholder on a show of hands has one vote.
On a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or representative has one vote for every ordinary share.
At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
Articles of Association Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
On behalf of the Board John Owen Chairman 1 June 2016 30 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
