Report of the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee, I independence and objectivity with particular regard to the am pleased to present the formal report of the Committee to provision of non-audit services, taking into consideration shareholders on the role and responsibilities and the effectiveness relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and by of the external audit process and how this has been assessed for seeking appropriate disclosures and comfort from the Auditor: the year ended 31 March 2016.
Responsibility for making recommendations on the Composition appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys independent Auditor: The Committee is chaired by me and consists of all of the independent Directors, namely John Owen, Nicholas Bull, Peter Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers Pleydell-Bouverie and Elisabeth Scott.
Mr Owen is a member of the internal audit department: reviewing the Companys Committee because the Board believes it to be appropriate for all procedures for detecting fraud: and reviewing the eectiveness independent Directors to have such responsibility.
The Committee of the internal control systems including financial, operational considers that collectively its members have sufficient recent and and compliance controls and risk management : relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
Monitoring the integrity of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial statements to ensure they are fair, balanced Role and Responsibilities and understandable: The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages Reviewing the existence and performance of all controls of the Managers website at www.
operating in the Company, including the control reporting of its These duties include: service providers: and Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of Discussing with the Companys independent Auditor the third party service providers such as the registrar, custodian nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the independent and depositary and the risks associated with audit rms Auditors quality control procedures, reviewing and monitoring withdrawing from the market.
the eectiveness of the audit process and the Auditors Meetings and Business The Committee met three times during the reporting year and the Companys independent Auditor attended two of these meetings.
Attendance by each independent Director is shown in the table on page 27.
The following matters are dealt with at each Committee meeting: Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the performance fee calculations Review of the Companys compliance with its investment policy limits Review of the fair value process of investments Review of the Depositarys Oversight Report In addition, the following matters were also dealt with at these meetings: June 2015 Consideration of the Auditors findings Review of the Auditors performance, independence and reappointment Review of compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements Review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board Recommendation of the final dividend payment to the Board Review of the Committees Terms of Reference November 2015 Review of the Half-Yearly Report and recommendation of its approval to the Board Carrying out an audit tender process February 2016 Review of Cybersecurity Review of the independent Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31 March 2016 Review of the Committees Terms of Reference Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 35 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Report of the Audit Committee continued Annual Report and Financial Statements The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 34.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and any specific areas which require judgement.
Committee members apply their expertise and knowledge in reviewing disclosures made in order to ensure that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
significant Issues considered by the Audit Committee during the Year Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to these Financial Statements and how they were addressed.
Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 f on page Investment Income 47.
The Manager provided detailed revenue forecasts and variances to these forecasts which were reviewed.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager, to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Companys independent Auditor.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 2 l and and ownership of 2 m on pages 48 and 49.
The Committee took comfort from the regular oversight reports received from the investments including Companys Depositary that investment related activities are conducted in accordance with the Companys derivatives and other investment philosophy.
The Committee received reports from the Manager and the independent Auditor who unlisted investments had veried the valuation of investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and had also confirmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparty.
Unlisted investments are appraised by the FIL Fair Value Pricing Committee FVP in accordance with IFRS.
The Committee receives reporting from the FIL FVP and reviews and approves the proposed valuation methodologies for all unlisted investments.
Performance fee The Managers have, at each Committee meeting, reported any performance fee accruals that have been calculation included in the Companys NAV and provided conrmation that it had been calculated in accordance with the Management Agreements.
In addition to reviewing the performance fee accruals provided by the Manager, the Committee also got comfort that the Companys performance fee had been calculated in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreements from the work carried out by the independent Auditor.
Appointment of the Independent Auditor As explained in the Chairmans Statement and following an audit tender, Ernst & Young LLP EY were appointed as the Companys independent Auditor for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Prior to the appointment, EY resigned from the provision of non-audit services in relation to taxation services to the Company.
The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided and that EY is independent of the Company.
A resolution to confirm the appointment of EY as the Companys independent Auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2016.
The Committee will continue to review the Auditors appointment each year.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
Independence and Eectiveness of the Audit Process The Committee reviewed the independence of the Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending their appointment to the Board and prior to the Boards proposal to appoint Ernst & Young LLP at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee reviewed: the personnel in the audit plan for the year: the Auditors arrangements for any conicts of interest: the extent of any non-audit services: and the statement by the Auditor that they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations and their professional standards.
With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Committee reviewed: the fullment by the independent Auditor of the agreed audit plan: the audit findings report issued by the independent Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ending 31 March 2016: and feedback from the Managers.
David Causer Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 June 2016 36 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
