Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Biographical details of all the Directors are on page 20.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in Board Responsibilities and Board Meetings place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs appropriate for an investment company.
and for promoting the long term success of the Company.
All matters which are not delegated to the Companys Manager Corporate Governance Codes under the Management Agreement are reserved for the The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Boards decision.
Matters considered at Board meetings include Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, share the FRC in September 2014 and the AICs Code of Corporate issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of management, investment performance, share price discount, Investment Companies AIC in February 2015.
The FRC has corporate governance, Board appointments, appointment of the confirmed that investment companies which report against the AIC Manager and the Company Secretary.
The Board also considers Code and which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate Governance Shareholder issues including communication and investor relations.
will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
Other than as previously disclosed in relation to Simon Fraser, all Directors are considered to be free from any relationship which The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent website at www.
co. uk and the UK Code can be found on judgement.
The Board follows a procedure of notification of other the FRCs website at www.
interests that may arise as part of considering any potential conflict.
All Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Statement of Compliance Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the discharge its duties effectively and the table on page 25 gives the year under review and up to the date of this report, except in attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting year.
relation to the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the chief The Portfolio Manager and key representatives of the Manager executive, executive directors remuneration, and the need for an are in attendance at these meetings.
Between these meetings internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, there is regular contact with the Manager and other meetings and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers that these are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, as it is sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred to them by the Board an externally managed investment company and has no executive and the Chairman is in contact with the other Directors regularly directors, employees or internal operations.
without representatives of the Manager being present.
THE BOARD In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the Board Composition Board undertakes a two day due diligence trip to Europe every As at the date of this report, the Board, chaired by Vivian other year.
During this trip, the Board meets with the management Bazalgette, consists of six non-executive Directors.
The Directors of existing and potential investee companies alongside the believe that, between them, they have good knowledge and wide Portfolio Manager.
The Board members also visit Fidelity experience of fund management, investment trust management Internationals office in the city being visited and meet with some and business in Europe, and that the Board has an appropriate of their analysts and representatives, thereby gaining valuable balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the insight.
The next due diligence trip will be in November 2017.
They Company and length of service to discharge its duties and provide also have meetings with Fidelitys Head of Investment Trusts and effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the also attend educational days organised by the Manager.
Each Director is entitled to take independent professional advice, James Robinson is the Senior Independent Director and fulfils at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
the role as a sounding board for the Chairman, an intermediary for the other non-executive Directors as necessary and to act as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman is inappropriate.
He has served on the Board for more than nine years and the Board considers that he continues to be an independent and effective Director.
24 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Vivian Bazalgette 5 5 3 3 1 1 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Robin Niblett 5 5 3 3 1 1 Marion Sears 5 5 3 3 1 1 Humphrey van der Klugt retired 12 May 2016 2 3 1 1 0 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
Company Secretary The Board reviews the tenure of each Director annually and a Director may serve for more than nine years, provided that the The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Director is considered by the Board to continue to be independent.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable Board Evaluation rules and regulations are complied with.
An annual evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the Changes to the Board individual Directors is undertaken ahead of each AGM.
The process includes regular discussion and written questionnaires Any proposal for the appointment of new Directors is discussed and, if appropriate, interviews.
For the year under review, the and approved by the whole Board.
As a consequence, there performance and contribution to the Company of each Director is no Nomination Committee.
External consultants who have was considered using written questionnaires.
The performance no connection with the Company are used to identify potential of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors in the candidates.
This was the case for the recruitment of Paul Yates Chairmans absence.
In all cases, it was concluded that all and Fleur Me ijs, for which the Company used Trust Associates the Directors have been effective and that they continue to Limited.
demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The process is considered to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the Director Training functioning and performance of the Board and action is taken on Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant the basis of the results.
The Board considers tenure as one of the information regarding the Company and receives training on the matters under review during Director evaluations.
investment operations and administration functions of the Company, together with a summary of their duties and responsibilities to the As a FTSE 350 Company and in accordance with Code B.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, among the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is required others, the AIC, the Companys Auditor and the Company Secretary to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board every regarding any proposed developments or changes in law or third year.
The next external evaluation will be for the year ending regulations that could affect the Company and or the Directors.
Election and Re-Election Of Directors Directors Remuneration and Share Interests All newly appointed Directors stand for election by the Details of the Directors fees and share interests are disclosed in shareholders at the AGM following their appointment by the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 and 30.
All other Directors are subject to annual re-election as the Company is a constituent member of the FTSE 350 Index.
Directors submitted for election and re-election are accompanied by sufficient biographical details on page 20 to enable Shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms and letters of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be available prior to the forthcoming AGM.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 25 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Corporate Governance Statement continued Board Committees Risk Management and Internal Controls The Board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and the The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk Management Engagement Committee, through which it discharges management and of internal controls and for reviewing their certain of its corporate governance responsibilities.
The review takes place at least once a year.
Such reference of both Committees may be found on the Companys systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk pages of the Managers website at www.
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide com.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is The Audit Committee is chaired by James Robinson as the Board willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is believe it is appropriate for him to do so given his financial responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance background and experience.
Full details are disclosed in the of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 32 and 33.
Company although these tasks have been delegated on a daytoday basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational Management Engagement Committee and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Vivian accountability have been established between the Board and Bazalgette and consists of all the Directors, except Simon Fraser the Manager.
The Manager provides regular reports on controls for the reason stated on page 21.
It meets at least once a year and compliance issues to the Audit Committee and the Board.
and reports to the Board making recommendations where In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee has regard to the appropriate.
It is charged with reviewing and monitoring the activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and risk performance of the Manager and for ensuring that the terms of functions and the work carried out by the independent Auditor and the Companys Management Agreement remain competitive and also includes consideration of internal controls of similar reports reasonable for shareholders.
issued by the other service providers.
The criteria taken into consideration in reviewing the performance The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a rigorous of the Manager are the quality of the team: commitment of risk and controls assessment.
It confirms that this is an effective the Manager to the Company and investment trust business: ongoing process in order to identify, evaluate and manage the administration, accounting and the secretaryship of the Companys principal business and operational risks, and that Company: investment management skills: experience and track it has been in place throughout the year ended 31 December record: shareholder relations and discount management: the 2016 and up to the date of this Annual Report.
This process is in Management Agreement, including fees, notice periods and accordance with the FRCs Risk Management, Internal Control duties: and marketing to secure potential long term investors.
and Related Financial Business Reporting guidance.
The Committee has reviewed the performance of the Manager The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and concluded that it is in the interests of shareholders that and has determined that the systems and procedures employed the Management Agreement should continue.
Details of the by the Manager provide sufficient assurance that a sound system Management Agreement and the current fee are on page 21. of internal controls is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
An internal audit function, ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Audit Committee meets the Managers internal audit Financial Reporting representative at least three times a year.
Set out on page 31 is a statement by the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report Whistle-Blowing Procedure and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on pages service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes 34 to 39. the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through a workplace concerns escalation policy whistle-blowing The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and procedure.
Fidelity has advised the Board that it is committed understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price to providing the highest level of service to its customers and sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity to provide information required to be presented by statutory and probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees requirements.
All such reports are reviewed and approved by and others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this responsibility is fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation fulfilled.
and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been endorsed accordingly by the Board.
26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Bribery Act 2010 The Notice of Meeting on pages 58 to 60 sets out the business of The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, the AGM and the special business resolutions are explained more honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has fully on page 23 of the Directors Report.
A separate resolution for reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Manager, is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the the Managers employees and others acting on the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Notice of the AGM behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working when conducting business.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation Voting rights in the Companys shares and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, Every shareholder on a show of hands has one vote.
On a and the governance framework for training, communication, poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with representative has one vote for every ordinary share.
At general enforcing actions as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll tolerance policy in this regard.
is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results are Responsibility as Institutional Shareholder disclosed on the Companys page of the Managers website at www.
The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles include the pursuit of an Articles of Association active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a Any changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
Fidelity is a signatory to the UK Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Further On behalf of the Board details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Board and it liaises with the Manager and the Companys Vivian Bazalgette broker who are in regular contact with the Companys major Chairman institutional investors to canvass shareholder opinion and to 14 March 2017 communicate its views to shareholders.
All Directors are made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and, where appropriate, other Directors are available to meet with shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and receives regular reports from the Manager on meetings attended with shareholders and any concerns raised in such meetings.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should either email the Company Secretary at investmenttrusts@fil.
com or write to the address provided on page 63.
The Company Secretary will attend to any enquiries promptly and ensure that they are directed to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the Board as a whole as appropriate.
The Board encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM at which there will be a presentation by Sam Morse, the Portfolio Manager, of the past years results and the prospects for the forthcoming year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and address questions to the Chairman and other members of the Board, the Portfolio Manager and representatives of the Manager.
The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak to shareholders.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 27 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
