Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the formal report of the Audit Committee Establishing with the independent Auditor the nature and the Committee to shareholders.
scope of the audit: reviewing the independent Auditors quality control procedures: the e ectiveness of the audit process: and The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to ensure the Auditors independence and objectivity with particular the integrity of the Companys financial reporting and the regard to the provision of non-audit services: appropriateness of the risk management and internal controls processes and the effectiveness of the independent audit process Responsibility for making recommendations on the and how this has been assessed for the year ended 31 December appointment, reappointment and removal of the independent 2016.
Auditor: Composition Reviewing the e ectiveness of the Companys risk The members of the Committee during the reporting year were management and internal controls systems including myself as Chairman, Vivian Bazalgette, Robin Niblett and Marion financial, operational and compliance controls : considering Sears.
Vivian Bazalgette is a member of the Committee because the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal the Board believes it to be appropriate for all independent audit department: reviewing the Companys procedures for Directors to have such responsibility.
The Committee considers detecting fraud: that collectively its members have sufficient recent and relevant Monitoring the integrity of the Companys half-yearly and financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
annual financial statements to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable: Role and Responsibilities The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its Reviewing the existence and performance of all controls terms of reference and are available on the Companys pages of operating in the Company, including the control reporting of its the Managers website at www.
These service providers: and duties include: Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third party service providers such as the registrar, custodian and depositary.
Meetings and Business Considered Since the date of the last Annual Report 11 March 2016, the Committee has met three times and the independent Auditor attended two of these meetings.
The following matters were dealt with and reviewed at each Committee meeting: Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework: Review of the Depositarys Oversight report: The Companys revenue and expenses forecasts and its Balance Sheet: and Review of the Committees terms of reference.
In addition, the following matters were also considered at these meetings: July 201 6 Cybersecurity The Half-Yearly Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Going Concern Statement November 2016 The Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31 December 2016 March 201 7 The independent Auditors findings from the audit of the Company The Auditors performance, independence and reappointment Compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements The Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Viability and Going Concern Statements The final dividend payment to be recommended to the Board The charging of expenses Annual Report and Financial Statements The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 31.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and on any specific areas which require judgement.
The Committee members apply their expertise and knowledge in reviewing disclosures made in order to ensure that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
32 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of these Financial Statements, and how they were addressed.
Recognition of Recognition of investment income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 d on page 43.
Investment Income The Manager provided detailed revenue forecasts which the Committee reviewed and sought explanations for any signi cant variances to these forecasts.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager, to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the independent Auditor.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 2 j and 2 k and ownership of on page 44.
The Committee took comfort from the Depositarys regular oversight reports that investment related investments including activities were conducted in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The Committee received reports derivatives from the Manager and the independent Auditor who had veri ed the valuation of investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and had also con rmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparty.
Principal Risks and The Committee reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and evaluated them Uncertainties according to the likelihood of the risk occurring and the impact the risk may have on the Company.
Further details can be found on pages 9 to 11.
Independence and E ectiveness of the Audit Process Ernst & Young LLP acted as the Companys independent Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Committee reviewed the independence of the Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending their reappointment to the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The audit plan for the year, including the audit team and approach to significant risks: The Auditors arrangements for any conflicts of interest: The extent of any non-audit services : and The statement by the Auditor that they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations and their professional standards.
There were no non-audit services provided to the Company during the reporting period.
Any indirect services provided to Fidelity which the Company utilised, were terminated before the start of the audit engagement.
With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Committee reviewed: the fulfilment by the Auditor of the agreed audit plan: The audit findings report issued by the Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ending 31December 2016: and Feedback from the Manager.
The Committee concluded that the Auditor continues to remain independent and audit process remains effective.
Auditors Appointment and Audit Tenure In line with EU regulations on mandatory audit rotation, a formal audit tender process was carried out in October 2015 and Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the Companys independent Auditor on 12 May 2016.
The Committee reviewed the Auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending their reappointment for a further year.
The Auditor is required to rotate audit partners every five years and this is the first year that the audit partner, Matthew Price, has been in place.
The Committee will continue to review the Auditors appointment each year to ensure that the Company is receiving an optimal level of service.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
James Robinson Chairman of the Audit Committee 14 March 2017 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 33 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
