Fidessa group plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Nominations Committees report Membership, meetings and evaluation During the year, the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by John Hamer, comprised John Hamer, Elizabeth Lake, John Worby and Ken Archer and is therefore compliant with the requirements of the Code.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees main responsibilities are to advise and make recommendations to the Board on the following matters: the size, structure and composition of the Board: succession planning of Board members: the appointment of external consultants where appropriate: and the appointment of new directors and the re-appointment of existing directors.
Matters considered during the year During 2016, the Committee: considered and reviewed the Boards composition and engaged independent search consultants, Russell Reynolds Associates, to assist with the process: considered and reported to the Board the recommendations following the 2016 Board evaluation: and reviewed its terms of reference.
In February 2017, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Richard Longdon as Ron Mackintoshs successor as Senior Independent Director and that Ron Mackintosh remain on the Board as an independent nonexecutive director.
Russell Reynolds Associates assisted with the appointment process.
Richard Longdons appointment to the Board was announced on 8th February 2017.
In relation to appointments and diversity, the Nominations Committees conclusions originally reported in 2012 continue to apply, namely that while diversity including gender diversity is important when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible new appointees, the single most important factor is to identify and recruit people based on merit.
The Nominations Committee continues to note that achieving diversity in certain sectors, including the technology sector, presents particular challenges when considering the profile of the available talent pool in those sectors.
Accordingly, the Board confirms that it is still not in favour of setting specific targets for Board diversity to be achieved by particular dates.
As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts there is one female member of the Board representing 14% of Board membership.
The Board recognises the importance of succession planning and the role it plays in maintaining a continuous level of quality in management and reducing the level of instability that may arise following unforeseen events, such as the departure of a key individual.
The Nominations Committee, in conjunction with the Board, formally discusses succession planning at least once a year to identify those individuals with potential for Board and other senior management positions: part of those discussions include the development requirements of those identified individuals.
