Fidessa group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Audit Committees report As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31st December 2016.
In January 2016 Ron Mackintosh retired from the Committee.
On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank Ron for his valuable and constructive contribution to the Committee over a number of years.
The Committee has focused on the integrity, completeness and clarity of financial reporting, the areas where judgements and estimates are required in the financial statements and the quality and effectiveness of audit processes and other risk management activities.
There has been no significant change to these areas of focus during the year and the Committee will continue to monitor them.
John Worby Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership, meetings and evaluation John Worby is the Chairman of the Committee and in line with the Code, John, who is a qualified accountant, has significant, recent and relevant financial experience serving as Group Finance Director of Genus plc until 2013 and through his other current and recent appointments, including his membership of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
In addition to John, the Committee comprises two non-executive directors Elizabeth Lake and Ken Archer, who have experience in technology and financial services businesses.
Accordingly, the Committee continues to comprise both financial and operational skills and experience.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer attends the Committee meetings together with representatives of the external auditor, the internal auditor, the Group General Counsel and the Head of Tax as appropriate.
In addition, the Committee meets with the external auditor and the internal auditor without management present at least once a year.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees main responsibilities include: to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor, review and monitor the external auditors performance, expertise, independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of the audit process and its scope: to assist the Board in monitoring the integrity, completeness and clarity of the financial statements and announcements relating to financial performance and to advise that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: to monitor the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices and consistency of their application year to year: to monitor and review the internal financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems: and to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review operational audit work undertaken by independent third parties.
Fidessa group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key matters considered in relation to the financial statements During 2016, the Committee reviewed the results of the external audit for the previous financial year, the external auditors half year review and the half year results, as well as the external audit plan for 2016.
In February 2017 the Committee reviewed the 2016 Annual Report including the financial statements contained within it, the Preliminary Results Announcement for the year ended 31st December 2016 and reports from the external auditor on their audit of the financial statements and Annual Report.
The Committees prime areas of focus were: the integrity, completeness and consistency of financial reporting, including the adequacy, clarity and appropriateness of disclosures.
This included reviewing the 2016 Annual Report and concluding that it was fair, balanced and understandable: the areas where significant judgements and estimates are required in the financial statements: the scope and programme of external audit, along with the quality and effectiveness of the external audit processes: the materiality level used by the external auditor, concluding that it should be consistent with the previous year: whether the going concern basis of accounting should continue to apply in the preparation of the annual financial statements: considering the appropriateness of the viability statement: reviewing the processes and systems to identify and mitigate the financial and non-financial risks and to consider the appropriateness of the controls to reduce the risk of fraud and exposure to bribery and corruption: and the appropriateness of the whistleblowing procedures in place whereby staff may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make assumptions, judgements and estimates and the material ones are detailed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The key areas of assumptions, judgements and estimates that have been reviewed and considered by the Committee are listed below: Revenue recognition in relation to significant implementations and contract amendments.
For the limited number of situations that required significant judgement the Committee received updates from management on the contractual terms, implementation timetable, technical risks being faced, uncertainties still to be resolved, significant contractual changes and the customers situation.
The Committee also reviewed the reports from the external auditor on revenue recognition.
As a result of their review of the management and external auditors reports, the Committee was satisfied that the explanations provided for judgements being made, particularly in relation to revenue being deferred, were applicable in the circumstances.
Development costs and the approach to their capitalisation and amortisation.
The Committee received updates from management and the external auditor and was satisfied that the methodology and process were appropriate.
The Committee concurred with management that the amounts capitalised met the criteria for capitalisation and that the short amortisation period of three years remained appropriate and that no material impairments had arisen.
The tax complexity and risk related to the multinational operations of Fidessa and the areas of uncertainty that arise.
The Committee received explanatory papers from management including a review of the appropriateness of the tax provisions held and an analysis of the Research and Development Expenditure Credit RDEC rules and their impact on the reported results for the year.
The Committee also received reports from the external auditor on its findings in these areas.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of tax provisions, deferred tax assets and tax disclosures in relation to the explanatory papers and reports it had received and concluded that the treatment adopted was fair and reasonable.
Fidessa group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets in connection with the acquisition of LatentZero Limited in 2007 and the potential impairment of those assets.
The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires a review of the value in use of the asset.
The main judgements in relation to the review were considered to be the achievability of the long-term business plan, the potential impact on the business plan of macroeconomic and regulatory factors and the discount rate being applied to projected future cash flows.
As part of the annual impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets, the Committee reviewed a report from management and from the external auditor on the value in use, discount rate and sensitivities applied to the value in use and, taking these and the improved performance of the business into account, concurred with the judgements associated with these calculations, including that no impairment provisions were required.
External auditor The Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness of the external audit and the performance of the external auditor.
The review included consideration of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the appropriateness and quality of reporting to and interaction with the Committee, the suitability of the audit plan and the effectiveness of its execution and feedback from management and the finance team.
The Committee also reviewed observations made by the Audit Quality Review team of the Financial Reporting Council and the actions taken by the external auditor in response to such observations.
Having considered all of these factors, the Committee concluded that the audit had been effective and that it was satisfied that KPMG has continued to provide an effective and efficient audit service.
The Committee received written confirmation from the external auditor of any relationships it has which may cause a conflict of interest, together with a declaration that it considered itself to be independent.
The Board has approved the external auditor undertaking very limited non-audit activities and any assignments outside these activities require separate Board approval.
The non-audit activity undertaken by the external auditor has been assistance on a limited number of tax matters in the reported periods.
The fees for non-audit activity represented 5% of the fees for audit activity.
Details of the external auditors fees including fees for non-audit work are set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee has noted the recent EU regulations on permitted non-audit services and arrangements have been put in place so that KPMG will no longer be providing tax advisory services to the Company with effect from 1st January 2017.
Following its review of the effectiveness of the external audit and independence of the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that independence has been maintained and that it is appropriate to reappoint KPMG as the external auditor.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that KPMG be reappointed as the external auditor for 2017 and a resolution for its appointment will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
KPMG has been Fidessas external auditor since its stock market listing in 1997 and during that time the audit has not been formally tendered.
The Committee recognises the requirements regarding the retendering of audit services at least once every ten years for companies in the FTSE 350 required by the Competition and Markets Authority and the requirement for auditor rotation as set out in EU regulations.
Under the transitional arrangements provided in these regulations, mandatory rotation of the Companys external auditors is required by 2020.
Given the relatively recent appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer, and after careful consideration of the most appropriate timing, the Committee currently intends to conduct an audit tender during the first half of 2018.
This will allow the new auditor to observe the 2018 audit process with the intention that the Committee recommends to the Board and shareholders a new external auditor be in place for the 2019 audit process.
It is intended that the new external auditor be appointed at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
In light of the required mandatory rotation of the Companys external auditor by 2020, the Committee maintains appropriate contact with potential alternative suppliers for audit services.
Internal control and risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for Fidessas internal controls and risk management systems.
Those controls and systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can Fidessa group plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
Details of the principal risks are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Board confirms that Fidessa has established systems, procedures and controls designed to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by Fidessa and that they have been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The effectiveness of those systems, procedures and controls are regularly reviewed by the Board.
As required by the Code, the Committee has reviewed the internal controls and risk management systems, including those relating to financial, operational and compliance matters and the Committee has confirmed to the Board that it is satisfied that Fidessa has established internal controls and risk management systems that are effective and compliant with the current governance provisions.
The key activities by the Board and the Committee during the year were: the Boards and Committees agenda included a review of risk, risk management and internal controls.
Additionally, the Board reviewed regular reports from management that addressed business issues including any relating to risk and risk management actions being taken or required to be taken by Fidessa: the Board received monthly management reporting and monitoring of performance against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for all significant variances: the Board received reports from the Group General Counsel on activities regarding the identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced by Fidessa: the Committee reviewed reports on the activities of the Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee, which comprises senior managers across Fidessa and is chaired by the Group General Counsel, has day to day responsibility for cyber security and oversight of the risk management activities and reports regularly to the Operating Board: the Committee reviewed internal audit and management reports on financial, operational and compliance risk matters.
The Committee reviewed operational audit reports from independent auditors regarding Fidessas quality management system ISO 9001.2008 and its service organisation controls ISAE 3402 SSAE 16.
The ISAE 3402 SSAE 16 reports currently relate to the UK, US, Canadian and Hong Kong operations.
The requirement to conduct additional external operational audits in other regions in which the Group operates is kept under review: and as part of Fidessas testing of internal controls, reports on cyber security and penetration testing were conducted by accredited bodies and the Committee received a summary of those reports and associated remediation plans.
Regular training is provided to employees to increase awareness amongst employees of the important role they play in ensuring Fidessas systems and data and Fidessas customers data remain secure.
Internal audit The Committee focuses the activity of the internal auditor on those primarily financial areas where it considers the need to review controls, test processes and monitor risk levels.
Fidessa engages an external consultant, who reports directly to the Committee, to conduct these internal audits.
During the year the Committee approved the internal audit work plan and reviewed the reports from the internal auditor of work done, recommendations for control improvements together with corrective action planned.
The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the internal auditor and concluded that they are satisfactory.
The review included discussions amongst the Committee and feedback from management.
Additionally, the Committee has reviewed various independent third-party operational audit reports and concluded that they are satisfactory.
