Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report outlines how the Board maintains high standards of corporate governance as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards Committees function.
The Board believes in good governance and recognises the importance of complying with the various aspects of the UK governance framework.
After conducting an externally facilitated evaluation process last year, I led an internal review process that concluded that the Board was operating effectively.
The observations arising from that review were discussed during 2016.
Further details are set out in this report.
The composition and stability of the Board continues to be a key focus.
As announced on 8th February 2017, Richard Longdon will be joining the Board on 1st March as Senior Independent Director: he will also be a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Ron Mackintosh will stand down as Senior Independent Director when Richard joins the Board but will remain on the Board as an independent non-executive director.
Finally, the Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
John Hamer Chairman The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2016.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26th April 2017.
The Strategic Report is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
All sections of the Annual Report contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors For the majority of 2016, the Board comprised a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Currently there are four independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 57, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Chris Aspinwall age 53, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined Fidessa in 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
