Corporate governance report Understanding our business Chairmans Statement Corporate governance does not exist in isolation and cannot be reduced to compliance with checklists and codes.
In order for the Board to be able to review strategy, to determine our approach to risk and to respond to events, we need to have a thorough understanding of our businesses.
During the year, the Board visited a number of our locations both in the UK and US.
This provided us with an opportunity not only to see our businesses in action, but also to meet our employees and understand their views and opinions on the Group.
These visits were combined with in-depth presentations from our divisional management teams Dear fellow shareholder onthe risks, opportunities, performance, customer propositions and I believe firmly that good governance lies at the strategic initiatives of their businesses.
heartof a successful and sustainable company.
Board and Committee composition TheBoard seeks toachieve this through setting During the year Chris Surch retired and was replaced by Matthew outthe Groups strategic aims, monitoring the Gregory as Chief Financial Officer.
Matthew brings a wealth of Groupsstrategic objectives and providing oversight knowledge and experience across a broad range of operational andfinancial areas, which have been invaluable as we continue to ofits implementation by the management team.
move forward with our transformation plans and business objectives.
TheBoard is also responsible for shaping the culture Iwould like to thank Chris on behalf of the Board for his commitment and values of the Group.
and contribution over his three years with the Group.
Our values In October 2015 Brian Wallace was appointed a member of the At a time when breaches of corporate trust and integrity are under the Remuneration Committee.
His appointment increased the number spotlight, resulting in ever greater scrutiny, regulation and control, we ofmembers on the Remuneration Committee to three and ensured believe our values, which were put in place to promote the required itfully complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
culture for the delivery of our vision and the transformation of the Remuneration Groupinto a customer focused entity, could not be more relevant: There continues to be a great deal of focus on Directors remuneration Committed to our customers and the way it is disclosed.
Under Imelda Walshs leadership, the Dedicated to safety Remuneration Committee has ensured there is a clear line of sight for management between pay and performance in the areas most valued Supportive of each other by our shareholders.
At this years Annual General Meeting shareholders Accountable for performance will have the opportunity to participate in an advisory vote on the implementation of our remuneration policy which was approved by Setting the highest standards shareholders at last years Annual General Meeting.
I look forward to your support at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Our values are recognised across the Group and are fundamental to the way we operate.
We see these values as key to the way we work Risk management with our customers, our suppliers, our employees and our other The Board has continued to debate and develop its understanding stakeholders across the Group.
We will not get everything right all of ofrisk, risk appetite and tolerance, risk testing and how we can best thetime, but we will aim to learn where we make mistakes, and our maximise the opportunities for us to grow the Group.
Board evaluation will assist us in highlighting areas in which Protecting the Group from operational and reputational risk is an improvements canbe made.
essential part of the Boards role.
Supported by the Audit Committee, we have continued to drive a better understanding of the risks we face, further developed and tested our tolerance on risk and ensured our Group risk map continues to reflect the Groups strategic objectives and opportunities.
50 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance We continue to adopt a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
Inthe course of our business activities, the Group is exposed to strategic, reputational, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Key achievements during the year Overall management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Following the appointment of Brian Wallace as a member Audit Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the Groups ofthe Remuneration Committee, the Company fully met the risk management framework.
More detailed information on the Groups requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with system of internal control and risk management can be found in the theexception of the recommendation to put the external Principal risks and uncertainties section commencing on page 36 auditcontract out to tender at least every ten years which andthis Corporate governance report.
isexplained in the report from the Audit Committee Cyber risk Board developed a greater understanding of the Groups The Board received an in-depth presentation on security and cyber businesses through site visits and in depth presentations from security in January 2016 which provided a framework for discussion divisional management around the threats we face and the effectiveness of our systems to mitigate the inherent risks.
We have made significant strides over the The independent, externally facilitated Board evaluation last few years to improve our capabilities in this area so we can adapt concluded that the Boards performance had moved forward tothe ever-changing environment.
In future, responsibility for assessing and it was performing to a higher standard than in the past the effectiveness of our procedures for managing cyber security risk Board further developed its understanding and approach to willbe addressed by the Audit Committee, alongside the other risk risk in setting the Companys strategy and managing its risks responsibilities delegated to it by the Board.
Areas of focus going forwards Engaging with shareholders Engaging with shareholders and being fully aware of their views is one To address the recommendations arising out of the internal of the key aspects of corporate governance.
I and my fellow Directors Board evaluation welcome open, meaningful discussion with shareholders, particularly To further develop the Boards understanding and approach with regard to governance, strategy and remuneration.
The Board and torisk appetite management have undertaken a number of activities in this regard during the year, many of which are detailed in this Annual Report To further review succession planning and talent management andAccounts.
Following my appointment as Chairman, I took the for the Board and senior management opportunity to meet a number of our major shareholders to gain an To ensure delivery of the transformation plans and develop the understanding of their perspectives on our business enabling these Groups strategy and business objectives tobe reflected in our decision making.
The Board receives regular reports on investor relations activities and, in particular, on shareholder sentiment and feedback.
The Board continues to believe that ongoing engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders is vital to ensuring their views and perspectives are fully understood and taken into consideration.
This will remain a key focus for the Board.
At the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting, all Directors who are able to attend will be available, as usual, to meet with shareholders after the meeting to discuss any issues they may have.
I encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2016.
Wolfhart Hauser Chairman Index to section Page Chairmans report 50 Nomination Committee report 61 Audit Committee report 63 Board Safety Committee report 68 Directors Remuneration report 70 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Corporate governance report continued companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least Governance framework every ten years and the composition of the Remuneration Committee, The Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared in accordance which prior to 5 October 2015 comprised only two independent with the UK Corporate Governance Code which was issued in Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee dealt September 2014 the Code by the Financial Reporting Council theFRC effectively and ably with the matters it was required to address during and is available to view at www.
The Code applies to the this period.
Following the appointment of Brian Wallace as a member Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended ofthe Remuneration Committee on 5 October 2015, the Committee 31March2016.
fully complied with the requirements of the Code.
The report from the Code compliance AuditCommittee explains the reasons why it has been decided not The Board confirms that throughout the year the Company has applied toundertake a tender of the external audit in the current year and the main principles and complied with the provisions of the Code, with confirms that a tender will be undertaken by no later than 2019.
It is the exception of Code Provision C. 3.7 which recommends that FTSE expected that Code Provision C. 3.7 will be removed as part of revisions Shareholders Board of Directors Leadership, strategy, risk, governance, values and standards Board Safety Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Overseeing a framework Financial reporting, Board composition and Remuneration framework of safety policies and internal control and succession planning and individual Director standards tomanage risk auditor relationship packages Executive Safety Committee Safety standards and sharing ofbest practice Strategy Principal Risks Budget 3-Year Plan Chief Executive Implementing the strategy determined by the Board Executive Committee Supporting the Chief Executive in the day-to-day running of the Group 52 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance being made to the Code later in the year, as it has been superseded bythe EU and Competition and Markets Authority requirements for mandatory external audit tendering.
This will enable the Company to report full compliance with the revised Code in future.
Leadership The role of the Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for managing the Company ina way which promotes the long term success of the Company for thebenefit of the shareholders as a whole.
The Board ensures that an appropriate balance between promoting long term growth and delivering short term objectives is achieved.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within aframework of prudent and effective controls for risk assessment and management.
The Board is primarily responsible for: determining strategic direction and demonstrating leadership: focusing on matters that consistently add value for shareholders of the Company both present and future: the governance and stewardship of the Group toprovide protection and security for the shareholders assets: the management of the Groups employees: setting the Groups culture, Board visit to First Bus depot standards and values, and ensuring that its obligations to shareholders inGlasgow and other stakeholders are understood and met: and determining the In order to gain a more in-depth understanding of First Bus nature and extent of the principal risks the Group is willing to take to operations and to see the business in action, the Board visited achieve its strategic objectives.
Another key responsibility of the Board First Bus depot in Glasgow in January 2016. is to ensure that management maintains a system of internal control Directors toured the depot and met a number of employees that provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal as well as receiving a presentation from First Bus senior financial controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
management on the performance, risks, opportunities, The Board is the decision-making body for all matters of such customer propositions and strategic initiatives of the First importance as to be significant to the Group as a whole because of Busbusiness.
their strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences.
Specific key matters have been reserved for approval by the Board.
These include approval of: Committees and to meet Board members informally.
It also provides the Groups strategy: the Board with the opportunity to meet personally senior managers, tovisit UK and North American sites and to review operational matters.
risk appetite: For example, during the year the Board visited First Bus depot in major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: Glasgow, First Students sites in New York and Greyhounds sites in Washington, DC, which included presentations from senior UK rail franchise bids: management on their businesses performance, employees, dealings with regulatory authorities on matters of significance: opportunities, risks and strategy.
capital and liquidity matters: In order to carry out its work, the Board has established a planned medium term plan and annual budget: programme of agendas to ensure all necessary matters are covered Board and Committee membership: and and to allow sufficient time for debate and challenge.
The Board also takes time to review past decisions where necessary.
At Board financial results, viability statement and governance.
meetings, the Board receives and considers papers and presentations from management on relevant topics and senior executives are Board meetings and visits regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
Effective review The core activities of the Board are carried out in scheduled and decision-making is supported by providing the Board with high meetingsof the Board and its Committees.
Additional ad hoc quality, accurate, clear and timely information including input from meetingsand conference calls of the Board and its Committees advisers where necessary.
arearranged to consider matters which require decisions outside thescheduled meetings.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: To ensure the Board sees the Groups operations in action, the Board divisional updates: normally holds at least three meetings each year at the Groups sites strategy and transformation plans: inthe UK and North America.
This provides senior management from financial and operational updates: across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board and its FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Corporate governance report continued assessment of risks and how they should be managed and mitigated: ensures at all times that the Group conducts its business in accordance with the legal requirements of the countries in other reporting items for approval, including UK rail franchise bids: whichitoperates and the Companys standards, if higher: and establishes a strong senior management team which has the feedback from Committees.
knowledge, skills, attitude and motivation to achieve the Groups business objectives and strategy, and with appropriate succession Division of responsibilities planning to ensure that this continues in the future: The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief develops and maintains an effective framework of internal controls Executive and other Directors are clearly defined so that no single and risk management: and individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
ensures the Board is kept appraised in a timely manner of the issues facing the Group and of events and developments as they arise.
Roles and responsibilities Chairman Wolfhart Hauser Senior Independent Director Drummond Hall establishes the Groups values and standards and sets the tone from acts as a point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders to the top: discuss matters of concern which would not be appropriate through promotes the interests of the Company with special regard to Group the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief planning and development to secure the Groups future and Executive or Chief Financial Officer.
No such matters of concern sustainable success: wereraised by shareholders or stakeholders during the year ended promotes the Board, ensuring it functions efficiently and in conformity 31 March 2016: with the highest standards of corporate governance: acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an ensures Board meetings are effective and open and constructive intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: debate is promoted, the views of all Directors are taken into account meets with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman and adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items: beingpresent at least annually and leads the Board in the ongoing ensures that shareholders and the Board receive accurate, timely, monitoring and annual performance evaluation of the Chairman: and clear and high quality information: deputises for the Chairman, as necessary.
chairs the Nomination Committee: Non-Executive Directors ensures effective induction and development of Directors: The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element ensures the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual tothe Board and a solid foundation for good corporate governance.
Directors is formally evaluated annually, with an externally facilitated Although all Directors are equally accountable under the law for the evaluation performed at least every three years: stewardship of the Companys affairs, the Non-Executive Directors facilitates effective and constructive relationships and fulfila vital role in corporate accountability.
They have responsibility for communications between Non-Executive Directors and Executive constructively challenging the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors and senior management: Directors, scrutinising the performance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives, as well as playing a leading role in the ensures effective communication with shareholders and other functioning of the main Board Committees.
Between them, the stakeholders, and that their views are understood by the Board: and currentNon-Executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, provides an appropriate balance of support and challenge to the experience, knowledge and independent judgement gained through Chief Executive in order to maintain an effective working relationship.
experience in a variety of business sectors.
See pages 48 and 49 for a description of the skills and experience of each Non-Executive Director.
Chief Executive Tim OToole Board Committees promotes the creation and maintenance of a safe working The four principal Committees of the Board are: Audit: Board Safety: environment and a safety-focused culture across the Group: Nomination: and Remuneration.
Board Committee members are leads the management team in the day-to-day running of the Groups appointed by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination business, including chairing meetings of the Executive Committee: Committee, which reviews the composition of each Committee regularly.
develops the Groups business objectives and strategy having regard The Committee memberships are spread between the Non-Executive to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, Directors, drawing on each of their relevant skills andexperience.
employees and other stakeholders: Committee members are expected to attend each Committee meeting, ensures the business of the Group is conducted, and results are unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from delivered, in the right way: doing so.
Only members of the Committees are entitled to attend their meetings, but others may attend at the Committees discretion.
establishes and maintains an organisational structure that enables theGroups strategy to be implemented effectively: leads communication with shareholders: 54 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance The terms of reference of each Committee are available to view on the Board independence Companys website www.
com and on request from the It is the Companys policy that at least half the Board should be Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
The terms of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board carries out a review reference are normally reviewed annually.
of the independence ofits Directors on an annual basis.
Other than Mick Barker, the Board considers each of its current Non-Executive Board Committee membership Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its The current membership of the Boards Committees is shown in the determination of independence, the Board has concluded that each table below: provides objective challenge to management, is willing to stand up and Audit Board Safety Nomination Remuneration defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the Director Committee Committee Committee Committee ultimate good of the Company and there are no business or other relationships likely to affect, or which could appear to affect, the Wolfhart Hauser C Tim OToole judgement of Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall, Brian Wallace, Imelda Matthew Gregory Walsh or JimWinestock.
Mick Barker, the Group Employee Director, is Mick Barker M not considered by the Board to be independent as he is anemployee Warwick Brady M of one of the Groups subsidiaries.
The Board considers, however, that Drummond Hall M M it is extremely beneficial for its employees to be represented on the Brian Wallace C M M Board in this wayas it enables employee-related issues to be raised Imelda Walsh M M C directly at theBoard and provides a two-way communication between Jim Winestock M C M the Boardand employees.
The Group Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, which comprises the Employee C: Chair of Committee Directors of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and serves a maximum of M: Member of Committee three, three-year terms.
Effectiveness Commitment Board balance All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and each Effective management and good stewardship of the Group are led Committee meeting for which they are members, save for in bythe Board.
The Board is currently comprised of the Chairman, two exceptional circumstances.
To help enable this, scheduled Board Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The balance of andCommittee meetings are arranged at least a year in advance to Directors on the Board ensures that no individual or small group of allow Directors to manage other commitments.
If a Director is unable Directors can dominate the decision-making process and that the toattend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, he or she interests of the minority shareholders are protected.
Biographies of still receives the papers and other relevant information in advance of allcurrent Directors are set out on pages 48 and 49.
John McFarlane themeeting and has the opportunity to discuss with the relevant Chair stood down from the Chairmanship and Board at the conclusion of the or the Company Secretary any matters he or she wishes to raise and 2015 Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015 and was succeeded by tofollow up on the decisions taken at the meeting.
Chris Surch retired from the Board and was replaced ChiefExecutive and Company Secretary are always available to by Matthew Gregory as Chief Financial Officer on 1 December 2015. discuss issues relating to meetings or other matters with the Directors.
Reasons for non-attendance are generally prior business and personal commitments or illness.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is ableto devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
NonExecutive Directors are advised on appointment of the time required tofulfil the role and are asked to confirm that they can make the Board composition Length of tenure required commitment.
Chairman 1 0-2 years 5 Executive Directors 2 2-4 years 2 Independent 4-6 years 2 Non-Executive Directors 5 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 1 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Corporate governance report continued The attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings, which they All Directors are provided with the opportunity for, and encouraged were eligible to attend, and the number of meetings attended in the toattend, training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant legal, year ended 31 March 2016 is shown below: regulatory and financial developments or changes in best practice.
Typical training for Directors includes attendance at seminars, Number of scheduled Number of forums, conferences and working groups as well as receiving updates Board meetings eligible scheduled Board from relevant bodies on various legal, regulatory and corporate Director to attend meetings attended governance matters.
Chairman 1 Wolfhart Hauser 6 6 To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the views 2 John McFarlane 2 2 ofshareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder Executive Directors sentiment at Board meetings.
Tim OToole 6 6 3 Although not part of their induction programme, all Non-Executive Matthew Gregory 2 2 4 Chris Surch 4 4 Directors can attend shareholder meetings and analyst presentations, Non-Executive Directors and shareholders may meet informally with Directors at the Annual Mick Barker 6 6 General Meeting.
5 Warwick Brady 6 5 Information and support Drummond Hall 6 6 The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for Brian Wallace 6 6 advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that Imelda Walsh 6 6 Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are Jim Winestock 6 6 complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes of best 1 Wolfhart Hauser was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 18 May 2015 and practice.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring became Chairman on 16 July 2015. communication flows between the Board and its Committees, and 2 John McFarlane stood down as Chairman and from the Board on 16 July 2015. between senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
All 3 Matthew Gregory was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2015.
Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and, 4 Chris Surch stood down from the Board on 1 December 2015. inappropriate circumstances, may obtain independent professional 5 advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment and removal of Warwick Brady was unable to attend one meeting due to an unavoidable prior business commitment.
the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
All Directors receive detailed papers and other relevant information During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings with on the business to be conducted at each Board or Committee Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors being present.
meeting well in advance and all Directors have direct access to senior The Senior Independent Director also led the Non-Executive Directors management should they wish to receive additional information on any in evaluating the performance of the Chairman, with the Chairman of the items for discussion.
The head of each division attends Board showing effectiveness in leadership.
meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly Development informed about the performance of that division and any issues On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive and that it faces.
Directors are provided between meetings with relevant structured induction, tailored to their individual requirements.
The information on matters affecting the business.
Such updates were induction programme, which is arranged by the Company Secretary, carried out by a variety of methods, including conference calls amongst includes visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior the full Board or between the Chairman and or the Chief Executive and managers and advisers, as appropriate.
The programme is designed to the Non-Executive Directors, and by way of the Company Secretary facilitate their understanding of the Group, the key drivers of business circulating monthly financial and operational reports as well as papers performance, the role of the Board and its Committees, the Companys and updates on relevant issues.
corporate governance practices and procedures, as well as providing Throughout the year a fully encrypted electronic portal system was them with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, operated, which enabled the Board and Committee papers to be responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
delivered securely to the Directors.
This enables a faster and more To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic tablets, procedures in place to provide them with appropriate and timely and reduced resource usage.
information, including receiving information between meetings The Company Secretary is Robert Welch, who joined the Group in regarding Group business developments and financial performance.
Robert Welch is secretary to all of the Board Committees, except This enables the Directors to discharge their duties on strategic, the Audit Committee and Board Safety Committee.
The secretary financial, operational, compliance and governance issues effectively.
tothe Audit Committee and Board Safety Committee is Bimbola Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues Odumosu, Deputy Company Secretary.
During the year the Board received briefings on cyber Conflicts of interest security, insider dealing and the Companys approach to compliance The Directors have a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code to make toavoid situations in which they have or can have a direct or indirect a long term viability statement in its Annual Report and Accounts.
56 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Area identified Action taken interest that conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing duty that a Director owes to the Greater focus on A Group strategy session was held in September Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement longer term issues, 2015 and presentations on the strategies of the under consideration by the Company.
The Companys conflict of such as strategy and divisions were reviewed by the Board throughout succession planning the year.
interest procedures are reflected in the Articles of Association.
In linewith that Act, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Responsibility: A detailed review of succession planning for Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest where Chairman Executive Directors and senior executives was appropriate.
The decision to authorise a conflict can only be made by conducted in 2016 identifying the skills, non-conflicted Directors.
Directors do not participate in decisions attributes, development needs and potential of key employees, with the results to be presented concerning their own remuneration or interests.
at the July 2016 Board meeting.
The Nomination The Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any conflict or Committee reviewed succession planning potential conflict of interest and authorisations granted by the Board.
arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors inform the Company Secretary of Greater alignment Full and detailed presentations are made to the any new, actual or potential conflict of interest that may arise or if there between the Board Board by the Committee Chair following each are any changes in circumstances that may affect an authorisation and its Committees Committee meeting.
Committee papers are previously given.
Even when authorisation is given, a Director is not normally made available to all Directors and Responsibility: absolved from his or her duty to promote the success of the Company.
notjust those Directors on the Committee.
Chairman and Chairs of Furthermore, the Companys Articles of Association include provisions Those Directors who are not a member of a Committees relating to confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and Committee may attend Committee meetings availability of Board papers to protect a Director from breaching his or atthe discretion of the Committee.
A number her duty if a conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply ofDirectors attended such Committee meetings during the year.
where the circumstance giving rise to the potential conflict of interest has previously been authorised by the Directors.
Team building During the year, three meetings were held atGroup sites in the UK and US providing Performance evaluation Responsibility: anopportunity for professional and social Chairman The Board undertakes regular evaluations of its own performance interaction, and to forge closer ties.
These as well as that of its Committees providing an opportunity to consider visitswere supplemented by Board dinners.
ways of identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and highlighting areas for further development.
As shown in the diagram below, the Board is in the third year of its three year evaluation cycle, with the next externally facilitated evaluation Following an external review in 2015 by Independent Board Evaluation, forecast to take place in 2017 18. who has no connection to the Group, the Board conducted an internal review in 2016 led by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The 2016 evaluation was carefully structured but pragmatic, Externally facilitated designed to bring about a genuine debate on issues that were relevant, evaluation conducted Internal review Internal review check on progress against matters identified in the previous evaluation by Independent using questionnaires using questionnaires Board Evaluation and assist in identifying any potential for improvement in the Companys processes.
It entailed completion of a detailed questionnaire to assess Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 the effectiveness of the Board, its Committee and individual Directors 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 and the preparation of a composite report.
The questionnaire focused on the operation of the Board and its Committees, key areas of Board Election and re-election of Directors focus, composition and capability, risk management and internal Directors newly appointed by the Board are required to submit control, leadership and accountability, and effectiveness of Board themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting meetings and visits.
The results of the performance evaluation were following their appointment.
Matthew Gregory having been appointed presented and discussed at the June 2016 Board meeting and as a Director on 1 December 2015, will retire and submit himself for therefore will be disclosed in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance As set out in last years Annual Report and Accounts, an external with best practice and the Code, all other Directors will submit Board performance evaluation process was undertaken in 2015. themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Theresults of the Board performance evaluation report were presented UK Bribery Act at the June 2015 Board meeting and it was concluded that the There is increasing public and legislative scrutiny of ethics in business dynamics, culture and effectiveness of the Board were improving and and doing the right thing forms a central part of FirstGroups values.
In that the individual members of the Board remained effective in their line withthese values, the Group has a zero tolerance approach to ability to discharge their duties and responsibilities.
Each Director bribery and corruption, which extends to all business dealings and continued to make a valuable contribution whilst demonstrating transactions in which it is involved, regardless of location or sector.
The commitment to their role.
The main areas identified for improvement anti-bribery policy, which applies to individuals across the Group, sets and corresponding actions taken during 2015 16 were as follows: FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Corporate governance report continued human trafficking have no part in the Groups supply chain.
The Group has always been vigilant about employee welfare and aims to be transparent in its practices.
The Group will develop and publish on the Group website www.
com an appropriate transparency statement during the course of 2016 17.
Further details on the Groups approach to human rights is set out on page 25.
Accountability The Board is responsible for promoting the long term success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders.
This includes ensuring that an appropriate system of governance is in place throughout the Group.
To discharge this responsibility, the Board has established a framework for risk management and internal control which identifies, evaluates and manages the principal risks associated with the Groups achievement of its business objectives, with a view tosafeguarding the shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the A tailored induction programme Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, A tailored induction programme was designed for Wolfhart and that the business continues to operate as a going concern.
The Hauser following his appointment to the Board to provide co-ordination and review of the Annual Report and Accounts follows agreater understanding of FirstGroup and its businesses.
awell established and documented process, which is conducted in This included: parallel with the formal audit process undertaken by the external auditor and the review by the Board and its Committees of relevant sections.
meetings with the executive team on key areas of the Group, including internal audit and risk management: Internal control The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of any meeting with the Company Secretary on governance: significant risks the Group is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic site visits to each division, including meetings with objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal management as well as travelling on local trains, coaches control systems to ensure that an appropriate culture is embedded and buses: and throughout the Group.
The Board has established a Group-wide system of risk management and internal control which identifies and enables meetings with investors and advisers, including at the 2015 management and the Board to evaluate and manage the Groups Annual General Meeting.
principal risks with a view to safeguarding the Groups stakeholders.
Thissystem is bespoke to the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and is designed to manage rather than eliminate out clear and mandatory rules covering areas such as corporate gifts risk.
Owing to the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, and hospitality, facilitation payments, breach reporting, risk thissystem provides robust, but not absolute, assurance against material assessments and training.
The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control is regularly reviewed by the Board.
To help the Group meet the highest standards of integrity and professionalism in all its activities, each business unit and Group The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2016 function is required to complete annual risk assessments in relation to and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, anti-bribery and fraud.
The Group has also a 24 7 global confidential there have been rigorous processes in place to identify, evaluate and reporting hotline for employees to report any concerns, including those manage the principal risks faced by the Group, including those that relating to bribery or corruption.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management and During the year, the Group has continued to ensure that new Internal Control published by the FRC.
employees whose roleand or seniority puts them at risk, and existing employees who switch roles, receive anti-bribery training.
The To assist in the identification and management of the Groups anti-bribery steering committee, which includes senior representatives principalrisks, the Board has established a risk management from across the Group, has reviewed the Group policy and framework, developed a system of regular reports from management recommended a number ofimprovements.
Following approval by the and reserved specific key matters for its decision.
The Board has Board, the revised policy will be formally implemented in 2016 17. authorised the Audit Committee to oversee the risk management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, Modern Slavery Act 2015 internal control and assurance systems.
Twice a year the Board is The Board recognises the importance of the provisions of the Modern presented with an update for its robust assessment on the principal Slavery Act 2015 and the Directors aim to ensure that slavery and 58 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance risks facing the Group together with a risk map, highlighting any Officer, are presented to the Executive Committee prior to being changes made since the previous update and the reasons for any assessed by the Audit Committee: changes.
Each Committee that reports regularly to the Board provides an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in each an update on the status of risks considered within its remit.
Bi-annually, of its business operations and the principal risk issues associated the Groups risk management framework is robustly reviewed by the therewith: Audit Committee, together with the process for identifying and implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with principal risks, assessing risks and a detailed analysis of the risks identified in the including careful internal monitoring and ensuring external specialists previous six months.
are consulted where necessary: The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to verify that policies Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
and internal control procedures are being correctly implemented and To assist in the identification and management of key risks, the to identify any risks at an early stage: Board has: reviewing and monitoring the confidential reporting system to allow established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies employees to raise concerns about possible legal, regulatory, financial and standards: reporting or any other improprieties: set up a framework for reporting matters of significance: regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and authorised the Audit Committee to review the Groups approach effectiveness of internal controls: and to risk management and the effectiveness of the Groups financial a remuneration policy for executives which motivates them, without reporting, internal control and assurance systems: delivering excessive benefits or encouraging excessive risk-taking.
authorised the Board Safety Committee to oversee the Groups framework of safety policies and procedures to manage risk: Reviews of internal controls within operating units by internal audit havesometimes highlighted control weaknesses, which are discussed developed a system of regular reports from management: and with management, and where appropriate, the Audit Committee, and reserved specific key matters for its decision.
remedial action plans are agreed.
Where appropriate, action plans aremonitored by internal audit and, in some cases, follow up visits The process is designed to provide assurance by way of cumulative tothe operating entity are conducted until such time as the controls assessment.
that have been put in place are working effectively.
No material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which have Annual Report and Accounts have been identified during the year operated throughout the year are: bythis process.
a clearly defined organisation structure with established The Board, in conjunction with management, continually reviews responsibilities: anddevelops the internal control environment.
No significant internal a focused business strategy, thus restricting potential risk exposures: control failings were identified during the year.
Where any gaps are Group financial, treasury, operating, compliance and administrative identified, processes are put in place to address them and these are policies and procedures which incorporate statements of required continually monitored.
During the year, a treasury committee was established to The Groups approach to risk management and how it profiles the risks enhance the governance of treasury activities within Board approved identified is set out on page 36. policies and procedures: Financial and business reporting ongoing review of safety, operating and financial performance In its reporting to shareholders the Board recognises its responsibility of the Groups businesses: to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the regular reports to the Board, Board Safety Committee and Executive Groups position and prospects.
This responsibility encompasses all Safety Committee on safety matters: published information including, but not limited to: the year-end and monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, half-yearly financial statements: regulatory news announcements: including monthly results, periodic short term forecasts, annual andother public information.
budgets and a medium term business plan: The quality of the Companys reporting is ensured by having in place well defined procedures for the assessment, approval, control and procedures for the review of information by management.
There are monitoring of major investments, with proposals being subject to also strict procedures determining who has authority to release rigorous strategic, financial and commercial examination: information.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements can be found on page 104. divisions identifying and reviewing their principal risks and controls for monitoring and managing risks, which are reviewed by senior The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system which executive management.
The updated divisional and Group risk complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
A Group Finance profiles, which are reviewed by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Manual details the Groups accounting policies and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Corporate governance report continued company management which are then consolidated into divisional matters.
Feedback from shareholders is provided at Board meetings.
These are subject to review by both senior management The Executive Directors are available, through the Corporate Services andthe Executive Directors followed by formal approval by the Board.
Director, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time Regular forecast updates are completed during the year and compared during the year and the Chairman is available to discuss governance against actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report and strategy with major shareholders.
The Senior Independent of operating performance with a commentary on variances against Directoris available to discuss matters of concern which would not budget and the prior year, which is reviewed by senior management.
beappropriate through normal channels of communication, including Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance issues relating to the Chairmans performance.
Non-Executive Directors indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly make themselves available to attend meetings with shareholders in basis.
In addition, business units participate in strategic reviews, order to develop an understanding of their views.
whichinclude consideration of long term financial projections and theevaluation of business alternatives.
The Company responds as necessary to requests from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue Treasury operations with key institutional shareholders, fund managers and sell-side analysts The Board has set a policy for the management of the risks from to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities treasury operations and this is set out in more detail in note 24 to the throughout the Group.
General presentations to shareholders and the consolidated financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been wider financial community are made by the Executive Directors following formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best practice and the announcement of Q1 and Q3 trading updates and half and full-year to control and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon treasury results.
In light of changes in regulatory requirements and market andbanking operations.
In addition, a treasury committee approves practice, and following discussions with a number of shareholders decisions regarding fuel, foreign exchange and other matters reserved andother stakeholders, the Board decided to discontinue publishing for its decision as set out in the Group Treasury Policy.
pre-close trading updates around the end of the March and September Internal audit trading periods.
Specific consultations have been carried out with Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems leading shareholders during the year on the changes to the Long Term of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business Incentive Plan and the Chairman also met with a number of major risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with investors following his appointment in July 2015. theGroups policies and legal and regulatory requirements as well as Investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, advising on ways in which areas of risk can be addressed.
It provides appointments and other key announcements on an ongoing basis via the objective assurance on risk and controls to senior management, the regulatory news service and press releases.
Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal audits work is focused on firstgroupplc.
com contains all of this information together with financial the Groups principal risks.
The mandate and programme of work of reports, presentations and other information on the Groups operations.
the internal audit department is considered and approved by the AuditCommittee.
Based on the approved internal audit plan, a number Annual General Meeting of internal audits took place across the Groups divisions to facilitate The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders improvement of the Groups internal controls and findings were at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and it is Company policy reported to relevant operational management and to the Audit not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Committee.
Internal audit follows up on the implementation of Annual General Meeting where there is an opportunity for individual recommendations and reports on progress to senior management shareholders to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairs andto the Audit Committee.
of the principal Board Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
The Group Director of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and attends each Audit Committee meeting to At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provided a brief present the internal control findings from the internal audits performed.
summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to The Audit Committee reviews and discusses the effectiveness of shareholders and the Chief Executive provided a business update.
internal audits on an annual basis with the Group Director of Internal Allresolutions at the 2015 Annual General Meeting were voted on by Audit.
This is done by the review of the internal audit plan of work for way of a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll follows best practice the year and monitoring progress against the plan and actions identified and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of the by internal audit.
The Group Director of Internal Audit meets with the shareholders attending the meeting.
Audit Committee at least twice a year, without management present.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions proposed at the 2015 Relations with shareholders Annual General Meeting were voted separately and the voting results, The Board welcomes the opportunity to openly and purposefully which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together engage with shareholders as it recognises the importance of a with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were announced to the continuing effective dialogue, whether with institutional shareholders, London Stock Exchange and made available on the Companys private or employee shareholders.
The Board takes responsibility for website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, ensuring that such dialogue takes place.
The Chief Executive and the Form of Proxy clearly advised that a vote withheld is not a vote in ChiefFinancial Officer are closely involved in investor relations, and law and is not used in calculating the votes for or against a resolution.
theCorporate Services Director has day-to-day responsibility for such 60 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Role and responsibilities Nomination Committee The key roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to: regularly review the structure, size and composition including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, including gender of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: identify and nominate for Board approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies having regard to, amongst other things, the benefits of diversity including gender, as and when they arise: recommend to the Board suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director, and membership of the Board Committees: ensure that the Companys Board and executive leadership skills are fully aligned to the Companys long term strategy: Dear fellow shareholder oversee succession planning for Directors and other senior I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities ofthe Nomination Committee.
Isucceeded John facing the Company, and the skills and experience that will be needed McFarlane as Chairman of the Nomination Committee on the Board in the future: on 16 July 2015, following my appointment as ensure any appointees have sufficient time to undertake their role: Chairman of the Board, and am looking forward recommend the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the tocontinuing his good work.
conclusion of their specified term of office having given regard to their length of tenure, performance and ability to continue to contribute to The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process for the Board in the light of the skills, experience, independence and Board appointments and for keeping under review the balance of skills, knowledge required: experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, including gender, on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution of the membership of the recommend the re-election by shareholders of any Director in Board and its Committees.
In identifying and nominating candidates for accordance with the provisions of the Code having due regard to his approval by the Board, the Committee continues to take account of the or her performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board, Boards aims in relation to diversity, whilst ensuring that the right people taking into consideration the skills, experience and knowledge with the right range of skills and experience are on the Board and in required and the need for progressive refreshing of the Board: and senior management positions in the coming years.
report formally to the Board on how the Committee has discharged We have seen further change on our Board composition this year.
InJune 2015 we announced that Chris Surch would be retiring from theBoard and his position as Group Finance Director in December When considering the recruitment of a new Director, the Committee 2015.
Following an extensive search process, I am pleased to welcome adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure with due regard our new Chief Financial Officer, Matthew Gregory.
We announced todiversity, including gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the Matthews appointment in August 2015 and he took up his post on Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, 1December2015.
In September 2015, we recommended to the Board independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in light of the appointment of Brian Wallace as a member of the Remuneration this evaluation, willprepare a full description of the role and capabilities Committee, ensuring its compliance with the Code.
Inidentifying suitable candidates, the Committee: In the coming year, we will continue to monitor the needs of the Board uses open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate and its Committees, with the aim of ensuring the Groups succession the search: planning policy is aligned to, and evolves to meet, the ongoing business considers candidates from different genders and a wide range of objectives and strategic goals of the Group.
backgrounds: Wolfhart Hauser considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria ensuring Chair, Nomination Committee that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light ofother potential significant positions: and engages from time-to-time with the Groups major shareholders onfuture skills requirements and ideas for potential candidates.
Where the Committee appoints external advisers to facilitate the search, it ensures that the firm selected has signed up to the relevant industry codes for example, on diversity and has no connection with the Company.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Corporate governance report continued The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors and, in so doing, Companys website www.
considering the tenure, mix and diversity of skills and experience of existing Board members and those of prospective Board members Membership and meetings inthe context of the Group strategy, and The current members of the Committee are: reviewed the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee.
Wolfhart Hauser, Chair Drummond Hall Recruitment of Chief Financial Officer Brian Wallace Following the announcement on 10 June 2015 that Chris Surch would Imelda Walsh be stepping down from the Board and as Group Finance Director in Jim Winestock December 2015, the Committee commenced the process for the The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and the appointment of a successor.
A comprehensive and rigorous search members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors, in process was put in place with a candidate profile and position accordance with the provisions of the Code.
If a matter were to concern specification.
Spencer Stuart, an external search consultancy who has the Chairman, then he would leave the meeting and Drummond Hall, as no other connection with the Company, was engaged to assist with the Senior Independent Director, would instead take the Chair.
selection process and conducted a search to identify suitable, qualified candidates.
A number of interviews and meetings were held with The Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation shortlisted candidates.
Matthew Gregory was then recommended to the of the Committee.
The Group Employee Director also attends meetings Board for approval by the Committee as he fully met the criteria required.
at the invitation of the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
Key stages of the recruitment process are set out below: Members of the Committee took no part in any discussions concerning their own membership of the Board or appointment as a Chair of a Committee, but were involved in the recommendations on Committee membership changes.
Prepare candidate prole Committee attendance and position specication The table below shows the Committee members during 2015 16 and their attendance at Committee meetings: Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Enlist search Committee meetings Committee meetings agency Committee member eligible to attend attended Wolfhart Hauser, Chair 3 3 Drummond Hall 3 3 Brian Wallace 3 3 Long list Imelda Walsh 3 3 of candidates Jim Winestock 3 3 1 Wolfhart Hauser was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 16 July 2015, following the stepping down both as Chairman of the Board and the Short list Committee of John McFarlane.
Between 1 April 2015 and 16 July 2015 there were no meetings of the Committee.
of candidates Nomination Committee performance evaluation As part of the Boards annual performance review, an assessment ofthe Interviews with short-listed candidates by Committees performance was commenced in 2016, in respect of the members of the Nomination Committee year ended 31 March 2016.
The results of the performance assessment and Chief Executive were presented and discussed at the June 2016 Board meeting and therefore will be disclosed in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the 2015 performance evaluation are set out on page 57.
Recommendation by the Nomination Activities in 2015 16 Committee to the Board At its meetings in 2015 16, the Committee considered, amongst other matters, the following: selecting and recommending to the Board the appointment of a new Appointment approved Chief Financial Officer: by the Board selecting and recommending to the Board the appointment of BrianWallace as a new member of the Remuneration Committee: reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees: 62 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Diversity Audit Committee The Company takes account of diversity when recruiting, including when it considers Board appointments, and will continue to do so inthe future.
All appointments to the Board are made on merit and relevant experience, against the criteria identified by the Committee, having regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Board consists of Directors with a wide range of skills and businessexperience drawn from a number of industries, which is vitalfor bringing both the expertise required and to enable different perspectives to be brought to Board and Committee discussions.
Furthermore, the Board comprises a range of nationalities, which bring cultural diversity as well as different geographical experiences and viewpoints.
The combination of these factors means that the Board benefits from a diverse range of competencies, perspectives and Dear fellow shareholder thoughts, which provides a dynamic environment for decision making.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to Whilst the Board is currently below its target of 25% female present the report of the Audit Committee for the year representation at 11%, it remains committed to achieving that goal ended 31 March 2016. assoon as practicable.
The Committee welcomes the changes to the revised UK Corporate The Board recognises the need to create the conditions that foster Governance Code and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, talent and encourage more women to achieve their full potential in their Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting careers in the Group.
As part of an overall approach to human resource published in September 2014.
These changes apply to the Group for management a framework has been developed which includes an the first time this year and have been areas of focus for the Committee.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy as well as practical training We took the opportunity of these changes to review the Groups risk materials and support for line managers to promote its communication management methodology and considered the process through which across the Group.
Further details on the Groups approach to diversity the Company would make its long term viability statement in the Annual are set out in the Our people section on pages 20 and 21.
During the year the Committee has continued to devote significant time to reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements, including the significant financial reporting judgements, as well as reviewing internal controls, and the effectiveness of both internal and external audit.
In addition to these core responsibilities, the Committee spent further time considering its approach to external tendering and this is set out in further detail in this report, and undertook in depth reviews ofFirst Rail accounting processes and the Insurance function.
In my role as Chair of the Committee I meet and communicate regularly with our external auditor, Deloitte, outside the normal meeting schedule and with various senior managers to further understand the way in which the Group operates, the risks it faces and its internal control framework.
These discussions, which are reported to the Committee, help shape thought processes and decision making, and promote a more rounded view of the Group.
Brian Wallace Chair, Audit Committee FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Corporate governance report continued commercial experience enables the Committee to deal effectively with Role and responsibilities the matters it is required to address and to challenge management The Committee acts independently of management to ensure that the when necessary.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial Employee Director, Company Secretary, Director of Finance, Group reporting, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control Director of Internal Audit and the external auditor are normally invited to and risk management, and in maintaining an appropriate relationship attend Committee meetings.
In addition, the heads of Group functions with the external auditor.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are invited to present to the Committee.
areto: At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets with the monitor and challenge, where necessary, the integrity of the financial external auditor and twice a year with the Group Director of Internal statements of the annual and half-yearly results relating to financial Audit, without management present, to discuss any matters relating performance, including a review of the financial reporting judgements totheir remit and any matters arising from external and internal audits.
which they contain and the methodology and assumptions used in relation to them: Committee attendance review and challenge, where necessary, the actions and judgements The table below shows the Committee members during 2015 16 and of management taking into account the views of the external auditor, their attendance at Committee meetings: in relation to the Companys financial statements, strategic report, Number of scheduled Number of scheduled financial review, corporate governance statement insofar as it relates Committee meetings Committee meetings to audit and risk management, half-yearly reports and preliminary Committee member eligible to attend attended announcements, including the going concern assumption: Brian Wallace, Chair 4 4 Warwick Brady 4 4 review the Companys internal controls, including financial controls Jim Winestock 4 4 and risk management systems: approve the internal audit plan and monitor the role and effectiveness Audit Committee performance evaluation of the internal audit function: As part of the Boards annual performance review, an assessment oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditor, ofthe Committees performance was undertaken in 2016 in respect including the monitoring of its independence and expertise, the ofthe year ended 31 March 2016.
The results of the performance termsof reference of its engagement and fees, and assessing the assessment were presented and discussed at the June 2016 Board effectiveness of the audit process with due regard to relevant UK meeting and therefore will be disclosed in next years Annual Report professional and regulatory requirements: and Accounts.
Details of the 2015 performance evaluation are set out on page 57. agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit plan and theoutput: Activities in 2015 16 At its meetings in 2015 16, the Committee considered and discharged review and amend as necessary the policy on the provision of its responsibilities on the following matters: non-audit services by the external auditor with due regard to ethical guidance: Financial Reporting consider and make recommendations to the Board in respect of reviewed the Groups full-year and half-yearly results, and considered theappointment, re-appointment, dismissal or resignation of the the significant accounting policies, principal estimates and accounting external auditor: judgements used in their preparation and the transparency and clarity of disclosures within them, and compliance with financial reporting review annually the Committees own performance and terms of standards and governance: reference: and reviewed the matters which informed the Boards assessment that report formally to the Board on how the Committee has discharged itwas appropriate to prepare accounts on a going concern basis: its responsibilities.
reviewed the process for assessing the long term viability The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the oftheCompany: Companys website www.
received reports from management and the external auditor on accounting, financial reporting regulation and taxation issues: Membership and meetings The current members of the Committee are: reviewed reports from the external auditor on its audit in respect of Brian Wallace, Chair thefull-year and review of the half-yearly results prior to them being Warwick Brady signed on behalf of the Board: Jim Winestock reviewed the accounting processes of the First Rail division: and Brian Wallace has recent and relevant financial experience for the reviewed and assessed the process by which the Annual Report purposes of the Code, being a chartered accountant and having andAccounts, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and heldanumber of senior finance roles.
The other Committee members understandable and provided the information necessary for have significant current or recent executive experience in the transport shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, and distribution industries.
This range and depth of financial and business model and strategy.
64 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Internal control, risk management and internal audit Other matters reviewed the structure and effectiveness of the Groups system of reviewed the terms of reference and the results of the performance riskmanagement and internal control and the disclosures made in evaluation of the Committee: theAnnual Report and Accounts on this matter: received a number of reports from divisional and functional reviewed the Groups risk management activities undertaken by the management on a range of financial, operational risk management, divisions and at Group level in order to identify, measure and assess legal and corporate governance matters: the Groups principal risks: in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, reviewed the strength reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and calibre of the Finance function: framework, and reports arising from the risk management process: received reports on the latest technical accounting, taxation and approved the annual internal audit plan and reviewed reports from the regulatory changes, including the new long term viability statement: Internal Audit department relating to control matters.
Progress against and the internal audit plan was monitored and any deviations to the plan received reports on matters raised on the confidential reporting were agreed: system and the process for the investigation of such matters to considered reports on resourcing and expertise of the Internal ensure that confidential arrangements are in place by which Auditdepartment: employees may raise concerns about possible legal, regulatory or other improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters.
monitored and assessed the Groups insurance arrangements: considered reports from the Group Legal Director on litigation Policy on the provision of non-audit services matters: The Committees policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services includes the identification of non-audit services which may be received a report from the Chief Information Officer on cyber security provided and those prohibited, and a process through which other and managements approach to the threat of such attacks: and non-audit services may be provided.
The policy can be summarised reviewed the Groups approach to fuel hedging, foreign exchange, asfollows: disaster recovery and business continuity planning.
audit-related services the external auditor can be invited to provide External auditor services, which in its position as external auditor, it must or is best approved the terms of engagement of the external auditor, the fees placed to undertake as it is clearly audit related.
These include paid to it and the scope of work carried out by it: reviews of half-yearly and other interim financial information, advice on correct accounting treatment of proposed transactions and reporting performed an annual review of the policies on the independence and on regulatory returns: objectivity of the external auditor, the use of the external auditor for non-audit services and the employment of former employees of the permitted non-audit services there are a number of projects or external auditor: engagements where the external auditor is best placed to perform the work due to their skills and knowledge of the business, or experience reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor in and market leadership in a particular area.
These are set out in the respect of the previous financial year: policy and include providing tax compliance advice, formalities assessed the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
In relating to shareholder circulars and various other regulatory reports, assessing independence and objectivity, the Committee considered and professional training.
Before engaging in any work of this type, the level and nature of service provided by the external auditor as well approval is required from the Chief Financial Officer with services likely as confirmation from the external auditor that it has remained to cost more than 125,000 requiring the approval of the Committee: independent: other permitted non-audit services for those projects or considered and confirmed compliance with the provisions of the engagements which are not covered by the permitted non-audit Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 in respect of statutory services category and where the external auditor is best placed to audit services for large companies: provide them, approval is required from the Chief Financial Officer, received reports on the findings of the external auditor during the with services likely to cost more than 75,000 requiring the approval half-yearly review and annual audit, and reviewed the of the Committee.
In addition, the Committee will consider whether a recommendations made to management by the external auditor and tender should be conducted before awarding such work to the managements responses: external auditor: and not permitted there are some projects that are not to be performed reviewed letters of representation to the external auditor: and by the external auditor because these projects would represent a recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor.
threat to the independence of the audit team, for example where the external auditor is remunerated through a success fee or where the project could lead to the external auditor being in a position of auditing their own work or making management decisions for the Company or its subsidiaries.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Corporate governance report continued The policy requires that non-audit services of the external auditor will resources.
The Committee monitored the progress of action plans only be used where the Group benefits in a cost effective manner and toensure they were completed satisfactorily.
the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit and objectivity.
process The Audit Committee manages the relationship with the external Twice a year the Committee is also provided with a report on all auditor, on behalf of the Board.
During 2015 16, the effectiveness of the non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditor and a external audit process was reviewed by the Committee and the findings breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
Details of amounts paid to the reported to the Board.
This involved an initial assessment of the delivery external auditor for audit and non-audit services for the year ended 31 and performance of the external auditor against the external audit plan March 2016 is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
for the year, which includes the reports and updates provided to the The policy will be further reviewed in 2016 17 to ensure it meets the Committee.
An annual assessment was then carried out by the requirements of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive.
Committee, taking into account the results of questionnaires completed by each of the divisions and Group management.
These questionnaires Auditor independence and objectivity covered a variety of topics including: the audit partners and team: the The independence of the external auditor is essential to the provision planning and execution of the audit approach: and insights and added ofan objective opinion on the true and fair view presented in the value provided by the audit process.
Feedback from the annual financial statements.
assessment was shared with the external auditor so that any areas for Auditor independence and objectivity is safeguarded by a number improvement could be followed up.
The Committee concluded that the ofcontrol measures: external audit process was effective.
limiting the nature of non-audit services performed by the external External audit tendering auditor: The current external auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed in 1998 following a full tendering process.
The Committee has undertaken placing restrictions on the employment by the Group of certain areview of Deloittes performance every year since its appointment.
employees ofthe external auditor: The Committee which, appointed a new lead audit partner in 2015, monitoring the changes in legislation related to auditor objectivity and who assumed his role following the conclusion of the 2014 15 audit, independence to help ensure the Company remains compliant: continues to be satisfied with Deloittes performance.
As the Group implements its transformation plans, consistency of approach in the providing a confidential helpline that employees can use to report any audit is considered to be of particular importance.
The Company will concerns, including those relating to the relationship between Group not, therefore, be putting its audit out to tender in the next year, but the employees and the external auditor: Committee will review this annually.
the rotation of the lead auditor partner after five years: The Committee has followed regulatory developments in the last independent reporting lines from the external auditor to the 12months and has considered the EU audit reform legislation passed Committee and the opportunity to meet the Committee in July 2014 and in force from 17 June 2016 and the Competition and independently: and Markets Authority CMA final order in respect of its market investigation an annual review by the Committee of the policy in place to ensure into the supply of statutory audit services published in October 2014 the objectivity and independence of the external auditor is maintained.
and in force for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
Under the transitional arrangements for both these regimes, Deloittes Internal control and risk management last possible audit of the Group would be for the year ending During the year the Committee reviewed the requirements of the 31March2024.
UKCorporate Governance Code in relation to the assessment and It remains the Committees intention to put the external audit out to reporting of longer term viability, risk management and internal control.
tender during the lead audit partners five year tenure, which is due The Committee assessed the Groups risk management methodology, toexpire at the conclusion of the 2019 20 audit, at a time that is right which is used to identify and manage the principal risks, as well as the forthe Group and its shareholders.
This means that the latest time reporting and categorisation of Group risks.
The Committee also theexternal audit will be put out to tender is 2019 so that the process reviewed the process for assessing the principal risks that could iscompleted by the conclusion of the 2019 20 audit.
This approach threaten the Companys business model, future performance, isin accordance with the EU audit reform legislation and the CMA solvencyor liquidity in order to make the long term viability statement finalorder as it is well within the time frames specified by their on page 41 and considered the appropriate period for which the transitional arrangements.
The Groups system of internal control and risk management was reviewed by the Committee throughout the year.
Key external audit findings and management actions were discussed as well as reports ateach meeting on the outcomes of the internal audit departments planned activities.
The operation and effectiveness of the internal auditdepartment was also reviewed, including its focus, plans and 66 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Significant issues The external audit process identifies significant issues and accounting discussed in Committee meetings during the year.
The Committee judgements which are reviewed by the Committee.
These are alsodiscussed these issues with the external auditor at the half year summarised in the table below.
Management prepared papers and year end.
All the significant issues were also areas of focus for andanalysis on the significant issues and judgements which were theexternal auditor as detailed in the auditors report.
Significant issues and judgements How the Audit Committee addressed these issues Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Management exercises a significant amount of judgement during the The Committee has considered the inputs for the impairment test impairment testing process as it is based on an estimation of future model.
The cash flow forecasts have been reviewed alongside past cash flows and a suitable discount rate.
performance and committed operational changes to the business.
The discount rate has been benchmarked to externally available data.
The growth rate assumptions have been applied in line with both market data and the macro-economic environment in the UK and North America.
Sensitivities to the model inputs have been tested forreasonableness.
Further detail on impairment testing is provided innotes 2 and 11 in the consolidated financial statements.
Legal provisions Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the The Committee has considered the assumptions used for likelihood and valuation of the expense required to settle the relevant estimatingthe valuation of provisions.
The legal issues are regularly obligation and, where applicable, the discount rate used to calculate reviewed, with the related provisions being based on advice from the expected settlement.
Further detail on previous and the assumptions used in determining the value is provided in notes 2 and 26 in the consolidated financial statements.
Self-insurance provisions Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the likely The Committee has reviewed the provision and considered the settlement of all known incidents.
A valuation of the expense required assumptions used to calculate the liability.
Independent actuarial to settle the obligation and, where applicable, the discount rate is expert advice on the adequacy of the provisions against such used to calculate the expected settlement.
liabilities is sought on a regular basis and the discount rate has beenbenchmarked against external data.
Pensions The Group participates in a number of defined benefit pension Management has engaged with external experts and the Committee schemes.
Management exercises significant judgement when has considered the assumptions used for calculating the liability.
determining the assumptions used to value the pension liabilities Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions asthese are materially sensitive to changes in the underlying which are: the discount rate: the inflation rate: and the mortality rates.
The overall liability has also been assessed for reasonableness.
Further detail on pensions is provided in notes 2 and 35 in the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue recognition Management must exercise judgement when determining the The Committee has reviewed the revenue recognition policies.
recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets Thesepolicies and their application are in line with accounting and liabilities arising from franchises and long term service contracts.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these types of franchises and contracts to assess the reasonableness ofthe assumptions applied.
Further detail on revenue recognition isprovided in note 2 in the consolidated financial statements.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Corporate governance report continued Role and responsibilities Board Safety Committee The key responsibilities of the Board Safety Committee are to: keep under review the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and standards for managing safety risks and their impact on the Groups activities: assess the impact of safety decisions and actions taken by the Group on its reputation, employees and other stakeholders: monitor and assess the commitment and behaviour of management towards safety-related risks: review safety performance and significant safety incidents, considering the key causes thereof and ensuring actions are taken and communications made by management to prevent similar incidents occurring in the future: Dear fellow shareholder make proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding The Board Safety Committee was established appropriate safety performance objectives for Executive Directors and in2013 14 to assist the Board in overseeing certain senior managers: managements processes, standards and strategies review the findings of any internal or external reports on the Groups for managing safety commitments and responsibilities safety systems, assessing any strategies and action plans developed across the Group as well as challenging the Group to by management in response to issues raised and, where appropriate, review and improve its operational safety performance making recommendations to the Board on such matters: and and culture.
It is my pleasure to Chair the Committee.
report formally to the Board on how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
The Committees approach to safety governance is characterised by: the Committee overseeing material safety matters and risks across Membership and meetings the Group: The current members of the Committee are: Jim Winestock, Chair management having primary responsibility for the design and Mick Barker implementation of an effective safety management system: Imelda Walsh management having accountability for safety performance: Committee attendance the safety function providing advice directly, as well as through The table below shows the Committee members during 2015 16 and aseries of networks across the Group: and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings: clear links between remuneration and safety performance.
Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Committee meetings Committee meetings The Committee met three times during the year.
The Committees Committee member eligible to attend attended agenda covered a range of safety issues including: reviewing a number Jim Winestock, Chair 3 3 of the Groups safety initiatives: development of a new Group safety Mick Barker 3 3 strategy: reviewing significant safety incidents and performance: and Imelda Walsh 3 3 setting stretching safety targets for the Groups incentive plans.
A key focus of the Committee has been on reviewing the development, Board Safety Committee performance evaluation roll-out and impact of the Groups Be Safe programme, which is As part of the Boards annual performance review, an assessment designed to deliver a step change in safety performance through the ofthe Committees performance was commenced in 2016 in respect enhanced safety behaviours of our employees.
Initial indications from ofthe year ended 31 March 2016.
The results of the performance those locations who were first to implement the Be Safe programme assessment were presented and discussed at the June 2016 Board are encouraging, but we still have a long way to go to achieve our goal meeting and therefore will be disclosed in next years Annual Report of zero harm.
To better understand the safety risk exposures and challenges facedbythe divisions and the actions being taken to address these, the Committee has implemented a schedule of in-depth divisional safety reviews.
During the year presentations were given by the seniormanagement teams of both First Bus and First Student.
Jim Winestock Chair, Board Safety Committee 68 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Activities in 2015 16 At its meetings in 2015 16 the Committee considered, amongst other matters, the following: monitored the safety performance of the Group and its divisions andreviewed significant incidents across the Group: reviewed lessons learnt and steps taken following significant incidents: set safety targets for incentive plans and approved performance outturns: reviewed the governance of incident investigations: conducted in depth safety reviews of First Bus and First Student: reviewed the development, roll-out and impact of the Groups Be Safeprogramme for improving behavioural safety and the Groups safety culture: monitored the performance of, and facilitated the sharing of best practice across, the Groups safety committees: monitored and evaluated a number of key safety initiatives across theGroup: and reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69
