Corporate Governance Statement Introduction In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code published the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and in 2014 and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board believes that the Company has complied with The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives the provisions of the UK Code copies of which can be found and is responsible for setting investment and gearing limits within at www.
uk and is also adhering to the principles and which the Fund Manager has discretion to act, and thus supervises recommendations of the AIC Code during the period under review the management of the investment portfolio which is contractually and up to the date of this report except as set out below.
The UK delegated to the Manager.
The Board has the right of veto over the Code includes provisions relating to: appointment of sub-managers recommended by the Fund Manager.
the role of the Chief Executive: The Board has responsibility for the approval of private equity and executive directors remuneration: and unlisted investments and all investments in in-house funds managed the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for The following table sets out the Directors meeting attendance in Investment Companies the Board considers these three provisions 2016.
The Board held a separate meeting in September 2016 to as not being relevant to the position of the Company, being an consider strategic issues and also met regularly in private session externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the during the year, without any representation from the Manager.
Companys day to day management and administrative functions Directors attendance in 2016 have been delegated to the Manager.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Therefore, Management Audit Nomination Engagement with the exception of the need for an internal audit function, which is Board Committee Committee Committee addressed on page 41, the Company has not reported further in respects of these provisions.
of meetings 8 5 1 1 1 Simon Fraser 8 5 1 1 AIFMD 2 Sarah Arkle 8 4 n a 1 The Company is defined as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF 3 Sir Roger Bone 8 3 1 1 under the AIFMD issued by the European Parliament, which requires that all AIFs must appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Stephen Burley 8 5 n a 1 Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board remains fully responsible for all Francesca Ecsery 8 n a n a 1 aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and compliance with Jeffrey Hewitt 8 5 n a 1 regulations.
The Manager is the Companys AIFM.
4 Christopher Keljik 3 2 1 1 5 Articles of association Edward Knapp 4 1 n a n a The Companys articles of association may only be amended by 2 Nicholas Moakes 7 n a 1 1 special resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
1 Attends but is not a member of the Audit Committee 2 Absent for one meeting to attend a funeral The Board 3 Joined the Audit Committee on 26 April 2016 The Boards responsibilities are outlined on page 44.
More 4 Retired as a Director on 26 April 2016 specifically, the Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of 5 Joined the Board on 25 July 2016 and the Audit Committee on 25 October 2016 the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These are categorised under strategy, policy, finance, Each Director has signed a terms of appointment letter with the risk, investment restrictions, performance, marketing, appointments, Company, in each case including one months notice of termination by either party.
These are available for inspection at the Companys the Board and public documents.
It has responsibility for all corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, share buyback and issue policy and registered office during normal business hours and are also available corporate governance matters which are all reviewed regularly.
32 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors are able to seek independent professional advice at the or current connection with F&C and each remains independent in Companys expense in relation to their duties.
No such advice was character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances taken during the year under review.
The Board has direct access relating to the Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
to company secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that Conflicts of interest Board and Committee procedures are followed and applicable A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and in which he or she has, or potentially could have, a direct or indirect other meetings are fully recorded through a process that allows interest that conflicts with the interests of the company a situational any Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board therefore has procedures in place for the has the power to appoint or remove the Company Secretary authorisation and review of situational conflicts relating to the Directors.
in accordance with the terms of the investment management Limits can be imposed as appropriate.
The powers of the Board relating to the buying back or issuance of the Companys shares are explained on pages 11 and Other than the formal authorisation of the Directors other directorships 31. as situational conflicts, no authorisations have been sought.
These authorisations were reviewed in January 2017, and each Director Appointments abstained from voting in respect of their own directorships.
Under the articles of association of the Company, the number of Directors on the Board may be no more than fifteen.
Directors may Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors must also comply with the be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the statutory rules requiring company directors to declare any interest in an Board.
All new appointments by the Board are subject to election by actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company.
shareholders at the next AGM and institutional shareholders are given the opportunity to meet any newly appointed Director if they wish.
An Committees induction process is in place for new appointees and all Directors are The Board has established an Audit Committee, Management encouraged to attend relevant training courses and seminars.
All the Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee.
The role and other Directors stand for re-election by shareholders annually.
responsibilities of these committees are set out in their respective reports on pages 35, 37 and 40.
Board effectiveness Every three years the Chairman conducts the Board appraisal As the Board has no executive Directors and no employees, and is process with an independent external facilitator.
In 2016 the appraisal composed solely of non-executives, it does not have a remuneration of the Board, committees and individual Directors was carried out committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for by the Chairman with the support of independent consultants, The the Directors of the Company can be found in the Remuneration Report Board Advisory Partnership LLP.
The process included confidential on pages 38 to 39 and in note 5 on the accounts.
unattributable one-to-one interviews between the consultant and each Director.
The Fund Manager, Head of Investment Trusts at F&C Relations with shareholders and the Company Secretary also participated to provide all-round Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In addition to feedback to the Board.
The appraisal of the Chairman was covered the annual and half-yearly reports that are available to shareholders, as part of the process and led separately by the Senior Independent monthly fact sheets and general information are available on the Director.
Progress in achieving the 2016 objectives and those Companys website at www.
relating to the critical success factors identified and considered in previous annual appraisals were reviewed as part of the process.
This A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys institutional comprehensive process helped the Board identify its priorities and shareholders and with private client asset managers.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, the Senior Removal of Directors Independent Director or any other member of the Board may do The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company the expiration of his term of office and may by ordinary resolution Secretary, at the address set out on page 34. appoint another person who is willing to act to be a Director in his place.
The provisions under which a Director would automatically cease to be a Director are set out in the articles of association.
Independence of Directors The Board, which is composed solely of independent non-executive By order of the Board Directors, regularly reviews the independence of its members.
for and on behalf of All the Directors have been assessed by the Board as remaining F&C Investment Business Limited independent of F&C and of the Company itself: none has a past Secretary 6 March 2017 Report and Accounts 2016 | 33
