Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present to you the Report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2016.
At the AGM on 26 April 2016 Shareholders approved the appointment of EY as auditors for the 31 December 2016 audit following the retirement of PwC.
The reasons for the change were reported last year.
The Committee has worked closely with both EY and PwC to ensure a smooth and successful transition.
The Committee has also focused on regulatory developments throughout the year and has been keeping a watchful eye on the Managers cybersecurity measures given the increasing levels of threat generally.
Role of the Committee and the sub-managers and a due diligence report from the The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to monitor the Companys Share Registrars: integrity of the financial reporting and statements of the Company, The performance of the Companys third party service providers and to oversee the audit of the annual accounts, preparation of the and administrators, other than F&C, and the fees charged in half yearly accounts and the internal control and risk management respect of those services: processes.
The Committee met five times during the year with F&Cs Counterparty monitoring and F&Cs dealing efficiency and Head of Investment Trusts, Head of Trust Accounting, Head of associated costs: Business Risk and the Fund Manager in attendance.
PwC attended The Companys trademarks and intellectual property rights: and the meeting at which the financial statements for the year ended The Committees Terms of Reference for approval by the Board.
31 December 2015 were reviewed and met in private session with the Committee.
EY attended all the other meetings.
The Board Chairman Comprehensive papers relating to each of these matters were was invited to, and regularly attended, Committee meetings.
These were debated by the Committee and any recommendations were fully considered if there was a judgement Specifically, the Committee considered, monitored and reviewed the to be applied in arriving at conclusions.
Recommendations were then following matters: made to the Board as appropriate.
The audited annual results statement and annual report and accounts and the unaudited half-yearly report and accounts, The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects relating to including advice to the Board as to whether the annual report and external financial statements and other significant published financial accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable: information as is noted in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities The accounting policies of the Company: on page 44.
On broader control policy issues, the Committee The Principal Risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness has reviewed, and is satisfied with F&Cs Anti-Fraud, Bribery and of the Companys internal control and risk management Corruption Strategy and Policy and with the whistleblowing policy environment, including consideration of the assumptions that has been put in place by F&C under which its staff may, in underlying the Boards Future Prospects statement on viability: confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial The effectiveness of the audit process and the current reporting or other matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place independence and objectivity of the external auditor: for communication by F&C to this Committee where matters might The appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the impact the Company with appropriate follow up action.
In 2016 there auditor and the transition from the previous incumbent: were no such concerns raised with the Committee.
The policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services in light of new ethical standards: Composition of the Committee The need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: The Board recognises the requirement for the Committee as a The receipt of AAF and SSAE16 reports or their equivalent from whole to have competence relevant to the sector in which the F&C, the Custodian, Depositary, the Private Equity managers Company operates and at least one member with recent and relevant 40 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT experience.
The Committee comprises five independent non-executive risk management, is exercised by the Committee through regular Directors.
I, Jeffrey Hewitt, am Chairman of the Committee and reports provided by F&C.
The reports cover investment performance, a Chartered Accountant and was for many years Group Finance performance attribution, compliance with agreed and regulatory Director of Electrocomponents plc, as well as currently or having investment restrictions, financial analyses, revenue estimates, recently been audit committee chairman of other listed companies.
performance of the third party administrators of the F&C savings The other members of the Committee have a combination of plans and on other relevant management issues.
financial, investment and business experience through the senior posts held throughout their careers.
Several have wide experience of The systems of internal controls are designed to manage rather the investment trust sector and its most recent appointee, Edward than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Knapp, has a current executive role as a Chief Operating Officer and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Global Head of Business Management within Technology at HSBC, material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
Further to the review by including deep experience in operations strategy and technology.
the Committee, the Board has assessed the effectiveness of the Sir Roger Bone was appointed to the Committee on the retirement Companys internal controls.
The assessment included a review of of Christopher Keljik in April 2016.
The contribution of Chris to the F&C risk management infrastructure and the report on policies the working of the Committee over many years has been much and procedures in operation and tests for the year to 31 October appreciated.
Details of the members can be found on pages 26 and 2016 the AAF Report and subsequent confirmation from F&C 27 and the updated Committees terms of reference can be found that there had been no material changes to the control environment on the website at www.
in the period to 3 February 2017.
This had been prepared by F&C for all its investment trust clients to the standards of the Institute of Management of risk Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Technical Release AAF F&Cs Business Risk Department provides regular control report 01 06.
The AAF Report from independent reporting accountants updates to the Committee covering risk and compliance whilst any KPMG sets out F&Cs control policies and procedures with respect significant issues of direct relevance to the Company are required to to the management of clients investments and maintenance of their be reported to the Committee and Board immediately.
The effectiveness of these controls is monitored by F&Cs Group Audit and Compliance Committee, which receives A key risk radar summary is produced by F&C in consultation with regular reports from its Internal Audit department.
Procedures are the Board to identify the risks to which the Company is exposed, the also in place to capture and evaluate any failings and weaknesses controls in place and the actions being taken to mitigate them.
The within F&Cs control environment and those extending to any Board has a robust process for considering the resulting risk matrix outsourced service providers to ensure that action would be taken at each of its meetings and dynamically reviews the significance to remedy any significant issues.
Any errors or breaches relating to of the risks and the reasons for any changes.
F&C are integrating the Company are reported at each Committee and Board meeting their control framework within the wider BMO organisation and the by F&C.
No failings or weaknesses material to the overall control Committee is monitoring the continued awareness of Company environment and financial statements were identified in the year.
The Committee also reviewed the control reports of the Custodian, the Depositary, T. Rowe Price and Barrow Hanley, Private Equity The Companys Principal Risks are set out on page 14 with managers and the Share Registrars due diligence report and were additional information given in note 25 on the Accounts.
The satisfied that there were no material exceptions.
Committee noted the robustness of the Boards review of Principal Risks and of course participated as Board members themselves.
Through the reviews noted above and by direct enquiry of F&C and The integration of these risks into the analyses underpinning the other relevant parties, the Committee and the Board have satisfied Ten Year Horizon Statement on viability on page 15 was themselves that there were no material control failures or exceptions fully considered and the Committee concluded that the Boards affecting the Companys operations during the year nor to the date of statement was soundly based.
The period of ten years was also this Report.
agreed as remaining appropriate for the reasons given in the statement, whilst recognising that the period is longer than that used Based on the processes and controls in place within F&C, the by many other companies.
Committee has concluded and the Board has concurred that there is no current need for the Company to have a separate internal audit function.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of External audit process and significant issues considered by internal controls, for reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that the Committee risk management and control processes are embedded in the dayIn carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has considered the to-day operations, which are managed by F&C.
The Committee has planning arrangements, scope, materiality levels and conclusions of reviewed and reported to the Board on these controls, which aim the external audit for 2016.
The table on page 42 describes the to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper significant judgements and issues considered by the Committee in accounting records are maintained and the financial information used conjunction with EY in relation to the financial statements for the year within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks and how these issues were addressed.
The Committee also included identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and overall in their review the areas of judgements, estimates and assumptions Report and Accounts 2016 | 41 Significant Judgements and Issues considered by the Committee in 2016 Matter Action Investment Portfolio Valuation The Companys portfolio of The Committee reviewed annual audited internal control reports from F&C, the sub-managers and investments comprises highly liquid Private Equity managers.
These reports indicated that the relevant systems and controls surrounding securities quoted on recognised daily pricing, cash and holdings reconciliations, security valuation and Private Equity funding had stock exchanges, held directly or operated satisfactorily.
In addition, with regard to Private Equity vehicles, the Committee: discussed through quoted open-ended funds, controls directly with the managers: reviewed the managers estimated valuations in detail at six together with illiquid Private Equity monthly intervals: and performed a thorough review and comparison of each funds 31 December funds of funds.
The Private Equity 2015 audited values versus the managers estimated valuations adopted by the Company in its own vehicles, which are subject to signed reporting.
The review indicated that the Private Equity managers estimated valuations could continue agreements covering long-term to be relied upon as being at fair value in accordance with the Companys accounting policy.
commitments and funding, hold a F&Cs reports on the effect of the weakening of the Sterling exchange rate on unrealised and realised diversity of unquoted investments investment gains and losses were scrutinised and approved.
Misappropriation of Assets Misappropriation of the Companys The Committee reviewed the annual audited internal control reports of F&C and the Custodian.
investments or cash balances could Neither of these reports indicated any failures of controls over the existence and safe custody have a material impact on its net asset of the Companys investments and cash balances.
The Committee reviews regularly the list of value per share.
banks which the Manager and sub-managers are authorised to place cash and deposits with.
The Companys Depositary reported quarterly on the safe custody of the Companys investments and the operation of controls over the movement of cash in settlement of investment transactions.
Through these reports the Committee is satisfied that the assets remained protected throughout the year.
Income Recognition Incomplete controls over, or inaccurate The Committees review of F&Cs annual audited controls report indicated that there were recognition of, income could result in no control failures in the year.
The Committee reviewed and approved at the interim and final the Company misstating its revenue accounts reporting meetings, all dividend receipts deemed to be capital special in nature by dint receipts and associated tax, with of their payment out of investee company restructuring rather than ordinary business operations.
consequences for overall performance, In addition, the Committee reviewed that all special dividends had been correctly treated in payment of dividends to shareholders, accordance with the Companys accounting policy.
and compliance with taxation rules.
The Managers reports on the effect of the weakening of the Sterling exchange rate on dividend receipts were scrutinised and approved.
referred to in note 2 c xi on the Accounts and welcomes this increase The Committee met in February 2017 to discuss the final draft of in transparency on such issues.
Likewise, the Committee welcomes the Report and Accounts, with representatives of EY and F&C in the disclosure and description of Alternative Performance Measures attendance.
EY submitted their Year-End Report and confirmed that provided on page 87.
Both of these disclosures are new this year they had no reason not to issue an unqualified audit opinion in respect and represent a step forward in reporting practice.
of the Report and Accounts.
The Committee established that there were no material issues or findings arising which needed to be brought to the Procedures for investment valuation and recognition of income were attention of the Board.
the main areas of audit focus and testing.
For unlisted Private Equity investments in particular, the Committee questioned the fund-of-fund The Committee also noted that an objective and skilled third party had managers on their processes in meetings during the year and noted read the Report and Accounts and commented on fairness, balance the further challenge provided by EY as part of the year-end audit and comprehension.
Consequently, the Committee recommended process.
The year-end valuation is an estimate based on the September to the Board that the Report and Accounts were in their view, fair, valuations extrapolated to the year-end by adjusting for cash flows balanced and understandable in accordance with accounting and any known events as described in notes 2 c ii and 25 d on the standards, regulatory requirements and best practice.
The Committee reviewed prior year experience on the validity of this estimation process by comparing the estimated value with The Independent Auditors Report which sets out the unqualified the actual audited values which become known in May June of the audit opinion, the scope of the audit and the areas of focus, in following year.
The variances were not material.
compliance with applicable auditing standards, can be found on pages 46 to 51.
42 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Auditor, assessment, independence and appointment The Company paid 11,000 to PwC for non-audit services in The Committee reviews the reappointment of the auditor every year relation to taxation in the period January to April 2016, prior to their and has been satisfied with the effectiveness of EYs performance on resignation as Auditor.
The Committee does not view these activities this, their first audit of the Companys accounts.
EY have confirmed as prejudicial to the independence of PwC whilst they were Auditors.
that they are independent of the Company and have complied with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating EY, the Committee has In the four months prior to their appointment as Auditor in April 2016, taken into consideration the standing skills and experience of the EY provided professional advice to the Company on taxation matters firm and the audit team.
From direct observation and indirect enquiry for a total cost of 22,000.
These services ceased prior to their of management, the Committee is satisfied that EY will continue appointment as Auditor.
EY have not provided or charged for any to provide effective independent challenge in carrying out their non-audit services since the date of their appointment as Auditor, in responsibilities.
The Committee also considered the FRC evaluation compliance with the new Ethical Standard for Auditors.
of EYs audit performance through the AQR process and noted the positive progress that EY had made.
Regulatory compliance This compares with 74,000 paid to PwC last year that included a The Committee confirms that the Company is in compliance with the one-off charge for the review of the Companys adoption of new UK requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Accounting Standards.
Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
This order relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the The Committee considers the appointment of the external auditor annually and the need for putting the audit out to tender for reasons appointment of the external auditor and the setting of the policy on of quality or independence.
As the Company is required to carry out the provision of non-audit services.
a tender every ten years, the next one will be conducted no later than 2026.
VAT reclaim As previously reported, PwC continue to act for the Company on a Non-audit services contingent fee basis in respect of a long running case for the reclaim The Committee regards the continued independence of the external of VAT.
Regulations came into force in 2016 prohibiting auditors from auditors to be a matter of the highest priority.
The Companys policy work on a contingent basis such as the VAT reclaim arrangement with PwC.
The Committee and PwC took the view that this work with regard to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor ensures that no engagement will be permitted if: had not compromised PwCs independence as auditors during the provision of the services would contravene any regulation or their tenure as the outcome of the case is not dependent on any ethical standard: audit judgment and the potential fee is not material to PwC.
The the auditors are not considered to be expert providers of the Committee is of the view that the arrangement with PwC remains an non-audit services: and arms-length transaction.
the provision of such services by the auditor creates a conflict of interest for either the Board or the Manager: the services are Committee evaluation considered to be likely to inhibit the auditors independence or The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the objectivity as auditors.
Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard governance arrangements as summarised on page 33.
In particular, the Committee has a policy that the accumulated costs of all non-audit services sought from the auditors in any one year should not exceed 30% of the likely audit fees for that year and not exceed 70% cumulatively over three years: and any individual service likely to exceed 5,000 should be agreed by the Committee prior Jeffrey Hewitt to commencement of the services and be accompanied by terms Audit Committee Chairman regarding liability, cost and responsibilities.
