FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 119 Board Structure The Board considers the Directors listed as being independent The Relationship Agreement on page 117, to be independent in character and judgement.
Peoles has entered into a relationship agreement with For each of these Directors, their circumstances are assessed by the Company the Relationship Agreement to ensure that reference to Provision B.
1.1. of the Corporate Governance Code relationships between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group the Code and the Board remains satisfied that they are each are conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
independent when the standards set out in Code Provision B.
1.1 Further information regarding the Relationship Agreement can are taken into account.
The non-independent Directors listed above have been appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant Additional disclosure on independence to the Relationship Agreement.
Charles Jacobs is a worldwide senior partner and chairman of Linklaters LLP worldwide.
Mr Jacobs is not involved in the Chairmans independence provision of legal or any other services to the Company by The Chairman, Mr Baillres, is beneficially interested in more Linklaters LLP.
than 50% of the share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. the Companys controlling Linklaters LLP was the Companys UK legal adviser for its London shareholder.
Mr Baillres is also the Chairman of Peoles and IPO in 2008 and is currently one of the Companys legal advisers other companies within the BAL Group.
where any such advice is limited to English law, provided by a different partner of Linklaters LLP.
Selection of legal advisers Mr Baillres was appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to is not a Board matter and is decided at the management level.
the Relationship Agreement, thus at the time of his appointment None of the Fresnillo management sit on the Board.
Having been responsible for overseeing if any decision were to be made at the Board level regarding of the successful development of the Group over many years, Linklaters LLP, which has not happened to date, Mr Jacobs would the Board considers that his continued involvement as its Nonexcuse himself in accordance with the provisions of the Companies executive Chairman is very important to the continued success Act 2006 relating to Directors interests.
Mr Jacobs does not have, and has not had within the last three The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a transparent years, a material business relationship with the Company either governance system, which ensures that the Company benefits directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee from Mr Baillres leadership and experience whilst being able of a body that has such a relationship with the Company.
By way to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is of illustration, the legal fees paid to Linklaters LLP for the last three capable of carrying on its business independently.
In particular, the financial years were 90k for the year ended 31 December 2014, Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships 177k for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 148k for the between the Fresnillo Group and its controlling shareholder are at year ended 31 December 2016.
The Audit Committee reviews arms length and on competitive commercial terms.
the appropriateness of all professional advisers fees each year including legal fees as part of their review of ordinary course Board roles of business expenses.
The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and specified in writing and agreed by the Board in the Statement consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a firm of Responsibilities.
Octavio Alvdrez, the Chief Executive Officer, providing professional services to the Company.
Mr Ruiz was is not currently a member of the Board.
not involved in the provision of such services to the Company by Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. prior to his retirement.
Charles Jacobs, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved Alberto Tiburcio retired as a Chairman and Chief Executive through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Mancera S. C. EYs Mexican firm, which is the Companys Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations.
Mr Tiburcio was not involved in the provision The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure of audit or any other services to the Company by Mancera S. C. that no one individual can dominate the decision-making prior to his retirement.
Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditor in 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
Board composition: gender split Board composition: experience Key Key Male 10 Finance and tax 4 Female 1 UK capital markets and legal 2 Political and public policy 2 Mining 1 Mexican business 9 International business 7
