Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 126 Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, During 2016, there were changes on the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc with two of our Directors resigning due to other commitments.
The Nominations Committee has for some time been mindful that we are in a phase during which the refreshing of the Board needs to take place, particularly as some of our independent Non-executive Directors reach the ninth anniversary of their appointment.
The possible options for further appointments to the Board have therefore been the principal focus of the Committee during 2016.
As part of that process, the Committee made a recommendation to the Board to appoint Alberto Tiburcio as an additional independent Non-executive Director and I am particularly pleased to welcome him to the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee.
Whilst we are mindful that further new appointments to the Board will be required, our primary objective in this process will be the appointment of the right people at the right time.
We remain strongly During 2016, we have also considered the membership of our committed to the principle Board committees as a result of which Arturo Fernandez has now taken over as Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment and of equality of opportunity Community Relations Committee.
In addition, Charles Jacobs was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
I am grateful when considering new to Guy Wilson for having undertaken that role previously.
Although one of our female Directors left the Board in 2016, appointments to the we remain strongly committed to the principle of equality of opportunity when considering new appointments to the Board Board and I hope that we and I hope that we will be able to demonstrate that commitment when future Board appointments are made.
will be able to demonstrate Yours faithfully that commitment when Mr Alberto Baillres future board appointments Chairman of the Nominations Committee are made.
Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee Membership The Nominations Committee has approved Board Appointments The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres and Board Diversity Policies which provide the framework Chairman of the Committee, Barbara Garza Lagera and for the Nominations Committee and the Boards approach Fernando Ruiz.
The majority of the members of the Nominations to Board appointments.
Committee are, therefore, independent Non-executive Directors.
Attendance Role Mr Alberto Baillres 2 2 The Nominations Committee is responsible for making Mr Fernando Ruiz 2 2 recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and Ms Barbara Garza Lagera 1 2 composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible Ms Garza Lagera was unable to attend one meeting of the for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Committee because she was presented with an international on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
award for her cultural work in Spain on the same day as the Committee meeting.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 127 Activity during 2016 Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee met twice during the year.
Board Appointments Policy and Process in summary The Nominations Committee and Board are committed to the Board appointments principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis The Nominations Committee is committed to a progressive of merit.
The Committee continues to consider the composition of refreshing of the Board, as recommended by Code Provision the Board with a focus on its continued commitment to diversity.
2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and There have been three changes to the Board during 2016, Mr Alberto future Board appointments continue to be based on: Tiburcio was appointed to the board and Ms Mara Asuncin Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the Aramburuzabala and Mr Rafael MacGregor resigned during the year.
The Nominations Committee has continued to discuss future Board The Companys leading position as a precious metals miner appointments with emphasis being placed on the gender balance of in Mexico.
the Board and the independence of future appointees to the Board.
The Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index.
The specific functions on Board committees which independent Committee membership Directors will be required to fulfil.
Following some changes to the membership of the Board The provisions set out in the current terms of reference of the committees in 2016 as a result of changes to the membership of the Nominations Committee.
Board itself, the Nominations Committee reviewed the composition and effectiveness of the Board committees in 2016 and was satisfied The Nominations Committee does not use open advertising or that the Committees are working well.
The Nominations Committee retain any external consultants when making new appointments approved the appointment of Arturo Fernandez as Chairman of the to the Board as it is considered unnecessary considering the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee, Companys contacts within Mexico.
following the resignation of Rafael MacGregor, and it will appoint another member of that Committee to replace Maria Asuncion Board Diversity Policy in summary and progress Aramburuzabala in due course.
All Board appointments are made on merit.
The Board recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board: particularly Executive succession planning the value that different perspectives and experience bring to the Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews a schedule quality of Board debate and decision-making.
There are certain of possible successors for all the positions on the Executive considerations which are taken into account in considering the Committee Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice composition of the Board such as: background and experience: President of Exploration and Chief Operating Officer.
This review age: gender: and shareholder perspectives.
considers both short-term emergency and long-term planning scenarios.
Any actions needed to support the development of The Board believes that setting targets for the number of people potential long-term successors are discussed.
The Nominations from a particular background or gender is not the most effective Committee also monitors the long-term evolution of the approach to take.
The Board will therefore look to follow the membership of the Board as a whole.
These matters were principles of this policy rather than specified quotas or targets.
all discussed by the Nominations Committee in 2016 and it is Of the six new Directors that have been appointed to the Board satisfied with the actions that are being taken to support this.
since 2012, two have been women, demonstrating the Nominations Committee and the Boards commitment to gender diversity.
Other Nominations Committee Activity One member of the Nominations Committee itself is female.
The Nominations Committee also considered the following matters: The appointment of Charles Jacobs as Senior Independent The Board recognises that very few women are attracted to mining Director.
engineering and geology academic programmes in Mexico and, Approval of the 2016 Nominations Committee Report prior in view of the stage of development of Mexico, the participation to publication.
of women in the labour force as a whole is still relatively low.
The time commitment required from each Director.
This will take time to rectify but it is changing and the Company The proposed re-election of each of the continuing Directors is committed to hiring and developing women with educational at the AGM.
training in mining engineering, geology, finance and accounting.
A self-evaluation exercise which concluded that the Nominations Committee is functioning well.
Full versions of the Board Appointments Policy and Process and the Board Diversity Policy, can be found on the Companys website The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are www.
available on the Companys website at www.
The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours.
