Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 124 Relations with Shareholders The Board continually monitors the interests of the Companys The Company plans to hold meetings with major shareholders minority shareholders, in order to ensure that those interests are and analysts at least twice a year.
This is done to give the investors being properly respected, and that they are aligned with those of and analysts the chance to discuss the results of the Group whilst the major shareholders.
As explained on page 123 procedures for also giving them an opportunity to raise any queries or concerns dealing with transactions with related parties, as well as Directors they may have.
The Senior Independent Director, Charles Jacobs conflicts of interest, are repeatedly appraised and maintained by intends to continue to attend such meetings in order to sustain the Board.
good communications between shareholders and the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also The Company has an office in London where the Head of Investor meet with analysts, conference calls after production reports Relations is based.
During 2016, the Group implemented a strong and shareholders by participating in the major roadshows after communications and investor relations programme, as detailed preliminary and half yearly results are announced.
They are joined in the diagram below.
by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these visits.
The table below outlines some examples of the discussion points at such meetings and the response from the Company.
Fresnillo mine turnaround plan progress Clear explanation of the measures taken while outlining the reasons for progressing at a slower than anticipated pace.
San Julin Updates on the start-up of phase I, explanations behind the delay in phase II, details of the expected ramp-up schedule and the principal statistics of the project.
Performance at Saucito and Herradura at other operating mines Update on the capacity optimisation at Saucito while also addressing the debottlenecking process at Herradura by increasing the processing capacity, thus decreasing gold inventories on the leaching pads.
Projects approved Rationale for the resumption of the pyrites project in addition to the approval of the second line of the DLP at Herradura increasing efficiencies as sulphides found deeper in the pit are processed.
Exchange rate effects Clear and detailed articulation of the different exchange rate effects on production costs in conjunction with other line items in the income statement.
Costs Detailed breakdown of cost metrics on a year-by-year basis highlighting and clarifying variations: cost inflation deflation by component.
Capital allocation: capex vs. dividends Emphasising the companys unchanged Dividend policy while reiterating our aim of balancing quality growth with returns across the cycle.
Production profiles and long-term goals Continue to highlight the long-term goals for 2018 with special emphasis on securing the reserves to maintain that level of production for ten years.
The Head of Investor Relations in London is tasked with Geographical shareholder base maintaining existing relations with analysts and major shareholders, The following graph demonstrates the Companys global appeal which is done by way of telephone calls and meetings.
The with a significant shift since IPO in 2008 from a predominantly Company also attends a full programme of mining conferences in UK shareholder base.
order to meet with current and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Key Office in Mexico City.
The Chief Financial Officer gives a report at United Kingdom Europe each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
North America Rest of the world % 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 IPO 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 125 Major interests in shares 2017 Annual General Meeting As at 27 February 2017, the Company had been advised of the The Companys ninth Annual General Meeting will be held on following notifiable interests whether directly or indirectly held 23 May 2017 at 12.00 noon.
The business of the Annual General in its voting rights: Meeting AGM will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.
The Chairman Number of voting of the Board and the chairmen of each of the Board committees rights % will be available to answer questions put forward to them by Industrias Penoles SAB fide CV 552,595,191 74.99 shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts BlackRock Inc 39,997,160 5.42 and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the First Eagle Investment meeting.
In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes Management LLC 34,857,166 4.73 account of institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to 2016 Annual General Meeting general meetings when drafting the usual resolutions dealing with At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, all resolutions put to those matters.
In each case, resolutions are presented to the AGM shareholders were passed by a majority.
As such, the Company to give the Board flexibility to respond to market developments.
did not deem it necessary to specifically engage with shareholders over any of the items of business of the AGM.
In accordance with Authority to purchase own shares changes to the UK Listing Rules applicable to companies with a The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution controlling shareholder, the resolutions relating to the re-election passed at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2016 to of the independent Non-executive Directors required approval purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, as all the shareholders of the Company.
if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys Further to the Code provisions, details of proxy voting are issued and authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at the presented at the AGM and final figures are announced to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew London Stock Exchange and uploaded to the Companys website the authority for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were as soon practicable after the AGM.
purchased by the Company during the year.
