Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 118 Executive Committee Key strengths and experience The Executive Committee Mine management within Mexico The Executive Committee comprises UK investor relations the most senior executives within the Fresnillo Group.
Over recent years it has Mr Alvdrez has extensive experience evolved in the areas of risk, business within the mining industry having conduct and safety performance.
previously held the position of General Within these areas the Committee is Manager of the Madero mine, one of responsible for management of the Mexicos largest mines operated by Companys businesses, including the Peoles.
Mr Alvdrez joined the Peoles implementation of decisions which Group in August 1988, since then he has have been agreed in principle by the Octavio Alvdrez held a number of senior operational and Board.
It is also responsible for all Chief Executive Officer financial positions across Peoles and executive management of the Groups Fresnillo, including that of Treasurer, operations, within the strategy and Date of appointment Head of Investor Relations in London budget approved by the Board.
15 August 2012 and Head of Procurement.
The Executive Committee has certain powers which enable it to approve Committee membership smaller transactions on behalf of the Mr Alvdrez is invited to attend Board, Board.
These transactions are reported Audit Committee, HSECR Committee and explained to the Board at its next and Remuneration Committee meetings.
Mario Arregun David Giles Roberto Daz Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Exploration Chief Operating Officer Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 1 November 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Mr Arregun is invited to attend Board Mr Giles is invited to attend Mr Daz is invited to attend Board and Audit Committee Meetings Board meetings meetings and to the Audit Committee on occasions Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Accountancy and treasury Senior exploration experience Senior project and operational Investment banking within Mexico experience Engineering and geology background Mining and engineering Mr Arregun was previously employed by Peoles where he held the position Following a 30 year career at Peoles, Following a long career in the mining of Chief Financial Officer for 11 years Mr Giles held a number of senior industry, Mr Daz first joined Peoles and Group Treasurer for six years prior management positions including Vice in 1977 and, following roles with other to this.
Mr Arregun has a background President of Exploration, prior to this groups, re-joined Peoles in 2007. in investment banking and project he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold and He has previously served as Fresnillos management.
He is an officer of the Society Vice President of Operations and Vice of Economic Geologists and the Mexican President of Project Development.
Association of Mining Metallurgical and Geological Engineers.
