Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 120 Effectiveness Board process Between Board meetings Directors are provided with The Board supervises the management of the Groups activities, information on important developments and issues such as: including the implementation of both the Groups long-term Reports on safety and fatalities.
In addition, the Board provides Important developments re projects transactions.
leadership to the Fresnillo Group setting the key values by which Distribution of relevant information on the precious the Group will continue to operate.
The Board has a formal metals sector.
schedule of matters reserved for its approval which includes approvals of major expenditure, investments and key policies.
Directors have the right to raise concerns at Board meetings, and The schedule is annually reviewed to keep it up to date with any can ask for those concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
The last review and revision was in The advice and services of the Company Secretary whose October 2016. appointment and removal is a matter reserved for the Board are also available to the Directors.
The Group has also established a All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
The Board meets procedure which enables, in relevant circumstances, Directors to a minimum of four times a year and has a well-established obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Corporate Code of Conduct The Company Secretary prepares the agenda for the Chairmans The Corporate Code of Conduct was updated during 2016, serving approval, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the as a guideline for all Directors, executives, employees and related Chief Financial Officer.
Papers are prepared by members of the third parties clients, suppliers and the community to act in Executive Committee to be presented to the Board for discussion.
The Code helps to ensure a foundation When preparing such papers, the factors set out in section 172 of values, and works as a guide for behaviour that encourages of the Companies Act 2006 are taken into account.
Any matters an environment of ethics and responsibility for the benefit of our that only require Executive Committee approval are nevertheless stakeholders.
It serves to complement the internal and external reported to the Board.
Members of the Executive Committee meet regulations already in force and also to establish corrective with non-independent Directors prior to each Board meeting to measures for anyone who fails to comply with the provisions review proposals due to be submitted to the whole Board.
review discussions are minuted and copies of the minutes are circulated to all of the Directors.
The Fresnillo Board and culture During 2016, Fresnillo continued its focus on the organisational Board members usually receive Board papers five days prior to culture and ethics programme.
The Board received a presentation meetings in order to enable the Directors adequate time to study on proposed management initiatives to embed strong ethics in the and consider the documents.
culture and as a core competence in the organisational structure to enable the Company to achieve its key targets, for example zero Members of the Executive Committee, led by the Chief Executive fatalities as a safety objective.
Officer, are present at all of the Board meetings, and present all of the papers on operational and financial matters.
The only A four-pronged programme encompassing the entire workforce exceptions to this are discussions over management succession, has been implemented, aimed at reinforcing the desired ethical and the annual Board evaluation report discussion.
At every behaviours through: i sponsorship and leadership for cultural meeting, the Board considers the following items: change from senior management: ii promoting ethical decision Directors interests.
making iii managing incentives: and iv developing an open Chief Executives Report.
The Board will receive regular updates on the initiatives and Risk, Internal Control and Anti Bribery and Corruption update.
the metrics for monitoring of the programme.
Investor Relations and Corporate Communications update.
Legal and Company Secretarial Report including The HSECR Committee has been given responsibility for litigation update.
overseeing the programme on behalf of the Board, which will review the progress of the programme in detail at one of its meetings each year.
Board process in summary Internal Board Paper Circulation Presentation Agenda Review of Process Preparation of Papers of Papers Papers Chairman NonCEO CEO independent Executive CFO Executive Responsibility CFO Directors and Committee Committee Company Company Executive Secretary Secretary Committee FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 121 Key Strategy Industry Activities Board programme Investor relations & 2016 & strategy industry activities Publication of the production report January followed by investor conference calls Review of 2015 Board Evaluation Report February and associated Action Plan Report on Hedging Programme Implementation, Culture and Values training software Budget update Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties Review of system of internal control Review of Going Concern Review of Annual Report Approval of 2015 Results and Annual Report Roadshow following the preliminary March results announcement and presentation: UK, US, Canada Nordea mining reverse roadshow Citi Global Resources Conference Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme Publication of the production report April followed by investor conference calls Market Abuse Regulation implementation Canaccord Mining Forum Board lunch and strategy discussion Supply and Demand dynamics which determine underlying silver price Annual General Meeting BTG Pactual Latin Opportunities May Conference HSBC LatAM Investor Forum June Approval of interim results Conference calls following the July production report announcement.
Review of Going Concern Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties Major Investor Analysis Market Abuse Regulation implementation Approach to 2016 Board evaluation Roadshow following the half-yearly results August announcement and presentation: UK Site visit September Denver Gold Forum Morgan Stanley Industrials and Natural Resources Summit Deutsche Bank Metals and Mining Conference Approval of Met-Mex rates for 2016 Publication of the production report October followed by investor conference calls Approval of 2017 business plan and budget Board evaluation Review of Viability Statement process and key assumptions Long-term strategy Organisational Culture and Ethics Programme UBS mining reverse roadshow November JP Morgan Best of British Conference December Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 122 Effectiveness continued Board performance evaluation In order to evaluate its own effectiveness, the Board undertakes annual appraisals using a combination of externally facilitated and internally run evaluations over a three-year cycle.
The cycle of the Boards evaluations is summarised as follows: Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 External Board evaluation approach Follow-up on action plan from Focus on outstanding and emerging agreed with Chairman externally facilitated evaluation issues arising from Action Plan Board evaluation in 2016 During 2016, which was the third year in the cycle, the Company used an internally facilitated evaluation focusing on the emerging issues and any outstanding outcomes and subsequent actions taken in 2015 in response to the 2014 external evaluation.
The outcomes from the 2016 evaluation exercise are set out below.
Key responses 2016 2016 evaluation comments initiated in 2015 progress and any further action The format and information contained Further improvements and refinements to A further review of key Board papers in Board papers will be refined to help the Board papers have been made in 2016. will be conducted in 2017 with assistance focus discussion on key issues and risks, from four Non-executive Directors.
The Board members continue to monitor particularly in relation to the performance the suitability and format of the papers The Audit Committee to review a and risk profile of key projects.
during 2016. protocol for post-implementation reviews on projects.
More time in Board meetings will be Long-term strategy was an agenda The Board recognise the importance devoted to discussion of long-term item at the October Board meeting.
of discussions and presentations on the strategic considerations up to five years.
Sustainability Strategy was reviewed long-term strategy.
at the April Board meeting.
Enable Directors to understand the control A presentation on the organisational and Continue to review and develop in 2017. and culture of the organisation more easily.
culture and ethics programme initiated Culture and ethics metrics to be further in 2013 was given at the October 2016 developed and included in the CEOs Board meeting and the Corporate Code report to the Board.
of Conduct has been updated.
In 2017, Fresnillo will be initiating a new three-year Board evaluation cycle, with an externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise.
Audit Committee evaluation The Audit Committee has undertaken an internally facilitated evaluation in 2016, details of which are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 137.
Other committee evaluations The Nomination and Remuneration Committees undertake self-evaluation on an annual basis but given the relatively straightforward nature of their work, have not considered it necessary to use external facilitation for their reviews.
Such reviews were conducted by both of these Committees in 2016.
Individual performance reviews Non-executive Directors occasionally meet the Chairman without executives being present.
The independent Non-executive Directors meet annually in order to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
On the back of this meeting, the Senior Independent Director discusses the views of the independent Directors with the Chairman.
The Independent Directors held this meeting in 2016 after the February meeting and took the 2015 Board Evaluation review into account in their discussions and feedback to the Chairman.
Board development Senior management present on the Groups strategic initiatives to provide the Non-executive Directors with more information about the broader context to the Companys activities.
In addition there is a regular distribution of industry briefings on technical, market and sector issues.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations.
Briefings were arranged for all Directors from the Companys advisers.
These include presentations which were aimed at familiarising the Directors with the duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company.
In addition, the Chairman meets with Directors to discuss any training or development needs.
These usually take place as part of Board or committee evaluation exercises.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 123 Relationship Agreement The Relationship Agreement complies with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
The Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement during the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
As far as the Company is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the financial year ended 31 December 2016 by Peoles and or any of its associates.
Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend the Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
It has also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a related party transaction as defined in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of the Listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify and manage related party transactions.
Identifying Directors interests Process How this is managed Responsibility Monitoring of If a Director is interested in a company which could potentially enter into Directors Directors interests transactions with a Fresnillo plc Group company, the Board will normally consider that interest under its arrangements for authorising conflicts of interest under s175 of Companies Act.
Managing a related party transaction Proposed Ongoing monitoring of Directors interests and related parties of the Company transaction provides the information to determine if a related party approval is required for a proposed transaction.
Process How this is managed Responsibility Contract The Executive Committee will seek to ensure that the best possible terms Fresnillo negotiation and are achieved for a proposed transaction and that they are verified by industry management verification benchmarking reports or independent valuation assessment.
and Executive Committee Process How this is managed Responsibility Financial scrutiny The Audit Committee reviews the key terms of major transactions which are verified Audit as to price and quality with external consultants or independent benchmarking Committee where possible.
Process How this is managed Responsibility Independent Under the Relationship Agreement, the Independent Directors must approve any Independent Director approval transaction with the Peoles Group and its associates without the non-independent Directors Directors voting.
Conflicts of interest The Group requires that Directors complete a Directors List.
The list sets out details of situations where each Directors interest may conflict with those of the Company situational conflicts.
Each Director has re-submitted their list as at 31 December 2016 for the Board to consider and authorise any new situational conflicts identified in the re-submitted lists.
