Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 114 Fresnillo and Corporate Governance Approach UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement The Board takes corporate governance seriously and considers its responsibilities under the UK As a company with a premium listing on the Corporate Governance Code with care.
With London Stock Exchange, Fresnillo is required nearly 75% of its share capital owned by Peoles, under the FCA Listing Rules to comply with it is important to consider corporate governance the Code Provisions of the 2016 Corporate in the context of the Companys relationship Governance Code a copy of which can be with its Parent Company.
The Board considers found on the website of the Financial Reporting this to be a strength rather than a threat because Council www.
uk or otherwise explain it brings the shareholder perspective into the its reasons for non-compliance.
Boardroom and creates an additional level of The following statement is therefore made accountability for the executive team compared in respect of the year ended 31 December to other listed companies.
2016 in compliance with such requirement.
The following sections of this report explain The framework for Corporate Governance within Fresnillo plc how the principles of the Code were applied therefore has three features which are relatively unusual for UK and provide cross-references to other sections public companies: in particular: There are no Executive Directors on the Board: however the of the report and or the Companys website Fresnillo Board operates differently from the traditional UK www.
com where more detailed board with non-executive and executive directors.
independent and independent Directors on the Board engage with the business of the Board in slightly different ways.
The For the financial year ended 31 December 2016, the Company non-independent Directors have more regular day-to-day has complied with the provisions of the Code in all areas, save access to the executive management of Fresnillo plc within in respect of two instances.
the Peoles context and therefore are able to engage with Code Provision D. 1.1 provides that the remuneration proposals put forward by the Executive Committee in a more committee should include provisions that would enable the direct way.
The independent Non-executive Directors bring Company to recover sums paid or withhold the payment of an external perspective to bear when evaluating proposals any sum to senior executives, and specify the circumstances and conducting the business of the Board.
Thus the nonin which it would be appropriate to do so.
Further explanation independent Directors, the independent Non-executive of the Boards position on malus and claw-back is set out in Directors and the Executive Committee have complementary the Directors Remuneration Report on page 145. roles in the business of the Board.
Code Provision D. 2.1 provides that the Board should establish It is vital that the membership of the Remuneration Committee a remuneration committee of at least three independent is made up of Non-executive Directors the majority of whom Non-executive Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo should be independent who are able to bring the following Remuneration Committee is made up of three members perspectives to the working of the Remuneration Committee: including two independent Non-executive Directors one of an understanding of shareholder expectations: whom, Charles Jacobs, is the Chairman of the Committee.
an understanding of the evolving remuneration expectations The Chairman of the Company, Alberto Baillres, who was of investors on the London Stock Exchange: and not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a an understanding of the general approaches to member.
The Board believes that Mr Baillres experience remuneration within the Mexican market.
and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market Fresnillo plc derives synergistic benefits from services and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration provided by Peoles.
Being a part of a group which has Committees deliberations justifies his membership of the common requirements across a number of service areas, Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not involved in provides opportunities for resources to be shared efficiently matters concerning his own remuneration.
The Audit Committee has therefore developed governance processes to ensure that these arrangements provide the intended benefits to the Company in a transparent and controlled manner.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 115 The role and interaction of the Board and its committees The Board has delegated certain authorities to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: Fresnillo plc Board Implementation of both the Groups long-term activities and commercial strategy Audit Nominations HSECR Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Oversees all financial Makes Monitors and oversees Oversees the Groups reporting, external recommendations on all of the Groups approach to and internal audit, the structure, size and health, safety, remuneration and sets whistleblowing, related composition of the environment and key performance party transactions and Board and its community relations indicators for the risk and internal committees and HSECR activities Executive Committee control matters succession planning and systems for the Directors and other senior executives Executive Committee Responsible for the executive management of the Groups operations, within the strategy and budget approved by the Board Honour Commission Maintains ethical business standards within the Group Terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSECR Committees are available on the Companys website www.
The Board decision-making process Initial Proposal Internal Review Board Paper Non-Independent Directors Executive Committee The Board Chairman Independent Non-executive Directors Reporting on implementation Approval Full Board Review
