Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 128 Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, This year has seen further increases in the responsibilities of Audit Committees following implementation of the EU Audit Reform and UK Financial Reporting Councils guidance.
In addition, a significant amount of time was involved in the conduct of an efficient and effective audit tender process, the details and outcome of which are set out later in this report.
Last year, in addition to our primary task of the oversight of financial accounting and reporting together with internal controls, concentrating on the financial judgements in the financial statements, I outlined four priorities for your Audit Committee in 2016.
I now comment on progress so far in the table below.
In the light of an external evaluation of your Audit Committee in 2017, we conducted a thorough internal evaluation using a lengthy questionnaire which was completed by all of us, the Chief We are performing our Financial Officer and the Financial Controller, Internal Audit and EY, our external auditor.
The conclusions of this evaluation are core duties in relation to that we are performing our core duties in relation to financial reporting, external audit, risk and internal control, internal audit, financial reporting, external whistleblowing and related parties well, albeit that we recognise the necessity to strive for continuous improvement.
We did, audit, risk and internal however, identify four activities for us to concentrate on in 2017 which are set out in detail later in this report.
In addition, the Board have also asked the Audit Committee to review its post-investment control, internal audit, review process.
whistleblowing and related I had intended to visit our new operation San Julin this year but our additional workload made that impractical.
I do, however, parties, albeit that we intend to go this year with the benefit that I will be able to go once the second and final stage of the operation is complete.
recognise the necessity In closing, we have welcomed Alberto Tiburcio as a fourth member to strive for continuous of our Committee and together with Fernando Ruiz and Jaime Serra, I believe we are now an even more effective Audit Committee.
Yours faithfully Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee 2016 priorities Progress Continuing to encourage management to challenge the The assumptions underpinning the various scenarios remain sound, assumptions underpinning the long-term viability of the but we have encouraged management to expand the statement Group to ensure that the Board can remain confident to explain what management and the Board would do in the event about the Groups long-term viability.
of any such scenario occurring.
Continuing to encourage management to enhance the Management has achieved a satisfactory level of understanding transparency of the effectiveness of the internal controls of the risks and related controls throughout all our operations, over the identified risks to enable the Board to have continued moreover, the Board now receives a quarterly report of significant confidence in our process.
movements in the risk profile and a summary of any significant control weaknesses identified by internal audit.
Continue to challenge managements progress to implement Good progress has been made in the management of both IT improvements to underpin the corporate strategy and recurring annual maintenance expenditure and the cost of new ensure that such enhancements are cost effective.
Further work, however needs to be done to clarify the risk profiles and related internal controls in order to achieve relevant industry standards.
Conduct an effective and efficient audit tender.
See full details of the process and outcome set out later in this report.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 129 Audit Committee Composition The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2016 were Guy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz, Jaime Serra and Alberto Tiburcio appointed on 4 May 2016.
Financial and auditing experience Sector experience Guy Wilson Previously a partner at EY UK with Previously an adviser to several UK appointed 1 July 2008 international audit, accountancy and capital extractive industry company boards.
Fernando Ruiz Retired Partner at Chavez, a leading Mexican Previously a director of Grupo Mexico appointed 15 April 2008 tax consultancy, with many years knowledge mining company in Mexico.
of the Mexican legal and tax environment.
Jaime Serra Previously Secretary of Finance in the Political insight through the various roles appointed 16 May 2014 Mexican Government.
Alberto Tiburcio Previously Chairman and CEO of EY Previously a director of Pemex.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors its own training and Attendance development needs.
Following his appointment to the Audit Mr Guy Wilson 5 5 Committee, Alberto Tiburcio underwent an induction programme Mr Fernando Ruiz 4 5 which included briefings with the Chairman of the Committee and the Company Secretary, meetings with the executive management Mr Jaime Serra 4 5 team and briefings from the Companys legal advisers and Mr Alberto Tiburcio 3 3 external auditor.
The Chief Financial Officer and representatives from external and Messrs Ruiz and Serra were unable to attend one meeting internal audit attend all meetings.
The Chief Executive Officer, each of the Audit Committee due to a clash with other business other members of the Executive Committee and management commitments.
Mr Tiburcio joined the Audit Committee on 4 May attend where appropriate and external advisors attend for specific 2016 and was therefore only eligible to attend three meetings matters if relevant.
The activity of the Audit Committee in 2016 The role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met five times during 2016.
Its programme The role and duties of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of activity is determined at the beginning of each year and is of reference, a copy of which can be found on the Companys structured to ensure that it reviews all of the activities set out website at www.
The Audit Committee has six in its terms of reference.
primary responsibilities: Financial Reporting Internal Audit Overseeing the Companys financial Overseeing the work and findings reporting to shareholders.
of the internal audit team.
External Audit Whistleblowing Overseeing the Companys relationship Overseeing the effectiveness of the with its external auditor.
Risk and Internal Control Related Parties Overseeing risk, internal control, Overseeing financial aspects of the going concern and viability.
In addition, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit functions in the context of the Companys overall risk management system.
Effectiveness Monitoring the Audit Committees effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit functions.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 130 Audit Committee Report continued Financial Reporting First half of 2016 Second half of 2016 Review of the financial statements for the year ending Review of interim financial statements for 2016 and Interim 31 December 2015 and Annual Report.
Review of approach to Tax and PTU.
Review of 2016 year end reporting plan.
Review of Payments to Government disclosure.
Review of plan for preparing the financial statements and Annual Report for the year ending 31 December 2016 early 2017.
In undertaking its review of the 2016 half-yearly report, the Audit In 2015, the Audit Committee reported specifically on its review Committee sought to ensure that there was consistency between of hedging, impairment and going concern as judgemental the policies and judgements used in preparing the full-year and areas.
These are aspects of financial reporting which the Audit half-year financial statements.
Prior to recommending both the Committee consider to be less significant as judgemental areas in half-year and the full-year financial statements to the Board 2016 because the Company is no longer hedging Mexican peso for approval, the Audit Committee, with the assistance of US dollar exchange rate differences and higher metal prices have management and EY, identified a number of areas of particular substantially increased the level of headroom for both the focus.
These are outlined in the table below.
impairment and going concern tests.
Significant judgement areas in 2016 Mineral reserves and resources The estimation of mineral reserves and resources requires significant The Committee reviewed the report by SRK Consulting the judgement not only in respect of mineral physically in place but also Companys independent reserves and resources auditor on the metal price and cost assumptions determine the cut-off grade for reserves and resources excluding Silverstream and considered identifying economically viable ore bodies.
the year-on-year changes in SRKs estimation of reserves and resources quantities.
The Committee also reviewed the Reserves and resources are a primary driver of Fresnillos market methodology used by EY to assess the SRK reporting and the valuation and a significant input into assessments of depreciation commentary on reserves and resources within the Annual Report.
As a result, inaccuracies in the estimation of reserves and resources would lead to broad implications across the Annual The Audit Committee is satisfied that the review process itself Report and Accounts.
and that the Companys disclosures are appropriate.
See pages 242 to 246 Silverstream The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument The Audit Committee reviewed the inputs into the estimation which must be reflected at fair value at each balance sheet date.
of the valuation at the balance sheet date and associated The fair value is most sensitive to the timing and volume of forecast sensitivity analysis.
It also reviewed the disclosures relating to production derived from the reserves and resources and production the Silverstream contract and discussed with EY their procedures profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated future silver price and for auditing the accuracy of the model used in the valuation and the discount rate.
The Silverstream contract represents a large asset on our balance The Audit Committee is satisfied that the related gain sheet which can also, as a result of movements in metals prices, on the Silverstream Contract is acceptable and that give rise to large, albeit non-cash, amounts in our income statement.
the accounting treatment and disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate.
See note 14 to the financial statements FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 131 Related party transactions including revenue recognition Fresnillo has a controlling shareholder and as a result has Every year, the Audit Committee scrutinises the probity of all very strong ties both to Peoles and the broader BAL group.
major related party transactions to ensure that they are entered into transparently and fairly to all shareholders.
See the section There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken of this report headed Transactions with Related Parties.
advantage of to manipulate earnings or otherwise distort our financial position.
The Audit Committee reviews EYs procedures to ensure revenue is recognised accurately and the relevant disclosures in the Furthermore related party transaction disclosure requirements allow Annual Report, to ensure that they are consistent with the investors to understand the Companys exposure to inappropriate information it is presented with during the year.
related party transactions and there is a risk that disclosures in our financial statements could be inaccurate or incomplete.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of Related Party Transactions in the financial statements.
See note 27 to the financial statements Taxation and PTU The taxation of mining companies in Mexico has been the subject In reviewing both taxation and PTU, the Committee reviews of much attention and governmental action in Mexico.
In accordance all the significant judgements and adjustments applied in with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay determining profit subject to taxation or PTU for each subsidiary for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to 10% of the taxable which are clearly set out in papers prepared by management.
income of each fiscal year.
The Committee challenges managements and EYs views and ascertains the degree to which such adjustments are supported There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and by internal and or external subject matter experts.
PTU charges may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures The Audit Committee was satisfied that the stated charges to payable taxation and PTU may not have been provided for for taxation and PTU are fair and reasonable under current appropriately.
In addition, certain tax assets and liabilities are Mexican tax law and financial reporting standards.
denominated in Mexican pesos and may be revalued during the period, resulting in foreign exchange gains or losses.
See note 10 to the financial statements The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that shareholders have adequate information to conclude that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair and reasonable.
Licences and land title The Audit Committee consider whether the Company continues to The Audit Committee has oversight over the progress of the have a robust process to ensure that all required legal documentation land title review and throughout the year has received verbal is completed correctly on acquisition of land titles particularly in light and written reports from the Companys Head of Legal on of recent litigation and ejido activity.
The specific questions arising the process.
from this are: i whether there are factors which may give rise to The review is largely complete.
To date, apart from the issues asset impairment: ii whether the level of legal provisions and arising from ongoing ejido litigation on which the Audit narrative disclosures in the accounts are adequate: and iii Committee has received regular updates from the Head of Legal, whether when the Group would be able to resume operations which are being addressed, nothing significant has emerged.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the amount of the mining assets at 31 December 2016 is not overstated when taking into consideration the currently available information and that relevant disclosures throughout the Annual Report are appropriate.
See note 12 to the financial statements Ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable Two weeks prior to the Annual Report and financial statements for the year-ended 31 December 2016 being approved by the Board, members of the Audit Committee and other Directors reviewed an earlier draft enabling them to assess whether the information was consistent with their understanding of the Companys business.
Suggested changes put forward by those Directors based on knowledge obtained through Board and Audit Committee papers and discussion and their other interactions with management are also taken into account in the final version of the Annual Report.
These included observations on the strategic report arising from a comparison with the disclosures in the financial statements to ensure consistency.
The Board therefore considers that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 132 Audit Committee Report continued External Audit Ordinary course activity during 2016 2015 full-year 2016 interim 2016 full-year Review EY report following completion Discussion with EY of the findings from Considering at the planning stage of the audit for the year ended their review of interim results for the of the audit whether any changes 31 December 2015. period ended 30 June 2016. were required to the existing accounting policies.
Meeting of Committee members with EY Meeting of Committee members with without management present.
Review and approval of the external audit plan, fees and terms of audit Review of the representation letter given Review 2016 half-year representation engagement.
to EY for the 2015 full-year audit.
Consideration of the independence, Review effectiveness of the 2015 full-year objectivity and qualifications of EY audit process.
Recommendation to the Board of the Review of the October hard-close reappointment of EY as auditors at AGM.
Subsequent review of letter from EY Review of policy on the provision of to management providing their non-audit services by the external observations and opportunities arising auditor and approvals.
from the 2015 audit process and management responses to same.
Review of external audit report on the financial statements and Annual Report Review of Financial Reporting Council for the year ending 31 December 2016.
Report on EY as a firm in respect of 2015 Annual Reports.
During 2016, the members of the Audit Committee met twice with representatives from EY without management present and once with management without representatives of EY present, to ensure that there are no issues in the relationship between management and the external auditor which it should address.
External auditor tender During 2016 a rigorous tender process for the external audit for the financial year beginning 1 January 2017 was conducted see the section headed external audit tender, below.
Appointment of the external auditor External audit tender In February 2016, the Audit Committee considered and During 2016, the Audit Committee undertook an external audit recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor, EY, to tender exercise.
The existing auditor, EY was invited to tender in the Board prior to the Companys Annual General Meeting.
This the process as this was permitted by current legislation given that review took into account the results of the auditor assessment EY had only completed nine years as external auditor.
Recognising process, the quality of the work and communication by the that two of the members of the Audit Committee were previously external auditor and the level of audit fees.
The Audit Partner is employed by EY and the existing relationship which the Company Daniel Trotman and he has been the Audit Partner for two years.
has with EY, the Audit Committee designed the tender exercise to be robust, objective and transparent.
Thus, the process consisted of the following steps: March 2016 The Chairman of the Audit Committee wrote to leading institutional shareholders inviting their input into the tender process.
May 2016 Introductory meetings with all four tenderers in London to explain process and provide information about the Company and the audit.
June 2016 Data Room was opened and requests for information processed.
August 2016 Meetings with each of the tenderers: i In London with the Audit Committee Chairman and Company Secretary to explain the Audit Committee process and governance framework.
ii In Mexico City with a the Audit Committee members: b the Internal Audit and Risk Management team: c the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, the Head of IT and the Assistant VP, Planning and Executive Information and d the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Head of Exploration.
September 2016 Receipt of written proposals.
Short-list of tenderers agreed for oral presentations.
Oral presentations given in Mexico City.
October 2016 Formal decision made by Audit Committee, taking account of input from members of the Executive Committee, internal audit and the finance team, and its recommendation made to the Fresnillo plc Board.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 133 Four firms, Deloitte, KPMG, PwC and the incumbent auditor, EY, to the Board and accepted in October 2016.
The appointment will were invited to submit tenders.
In order to ensure that the process be presented to shareholders for confirmation at the 2017 AGM.
was as objective as possible, the Audit Committee involved a number of key stakeholders who work with the external auditor.
In making its recommendation to the Board to re-appoint EY for These included the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the 2017 year end audit, the Audit Committee and management the Group Financial Controller, the Head of IT, Assistant Vice particularly noted that EY have a strong understanding of the President, Planning and Executive Information, the Head of Risk, mining sector and its various audit-related issues and challenges.
the Head of Internal Audit and Internal Audit Manager.
All of the They also took into account the strength and experience of stakeholders involved in the process were invited to rank score the EY team both in London and in Mexico.
In addition, EY had each of the tenderers against each of the following criteria.
These identified ways in which the audit process could continue to marks were taken into account as part of the evaluation process.
evolve and innovate as part of their proposal and have committed to implement those recommendations.
Experience in mining, with precious metals expertise preferred, in companies of a similar size and complexity.
Quality and independence of the external auditor and non-audit London team experienced with FTSE 100 companies and services policy associated regulation and governance preferably with some The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure who can speak Spanish supported by local Mexican team.
that the external auditor maintains its independence and Quality of partners in UK and Mexico and quality of their teams, objectivity and is appropriately qualified with sufficient resources evidenced by firm and external evaluations.
Issues from the and expertise to fulfil the role.
During the external audit tender FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR of the firm relevant to audit process all of these aspects were considered.
More specifically of Fresnillo and details of internal processes used for quality in the context of the 2016 audit, the Audit Committee specifically assurance.
Quality and experience of other technical resources reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of EY as that may be used on assignments.
the external auditor based on disclosures provided by EY in How the audit approach would be aligned to Fresnillos specific accordance with UK Ethical Standards for the audit profession.
Following the implementation of the EU Audit Reform Directive, Expected continuity of team.
the Audit Committee reviewed its policy for the provision of Proposed hours and fees in detail with methodology for non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor future years.
the Revised Policy, which was effective from 1 January 2017.
Independence of firm and details of internal practices to ensure This resulted in minor changes being agreed to the Policy to continuing compliance with independence requirements and ensure that it conforms to the new Ethical Standard published freedom from conflicts of interest.
by the Financial Reporting Council.
Under the Revised Policy Plan for transition and experience of such transitions with the engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit similar companies.
services, certain assurance, and due diligence services with fees Experience of co-ordination with Parent Company of less than US$5,000 is pre-approved.
Any engagement of the management and auditors and methodology for doing so.
external auditor to provide permitted services above US$5,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Committee.
Fresnillo external audit tender evaluation criteria Following the submission of the written proposals, the Audit In October 2016, the Audit Committee reviewed the non-audit Committee unanimously concluded that Deloitte and EY work undertaken by EY during the year.
The Committee was demonstrated better the resources, expertise, quality control and satisfied that the level of work was appropriate and that the nature audit approach to deliver a high quality audit service to Fresnillo and of the work would not compromise EYs objectivity in respect of were invited to give oral presentations, following which, a formal future audit work.
Details of the fees paid to EY during the year recommendation to re-appoint EY as the external auditor was made as shown in note 28 to the financial statements.
Risk and Internal Control During the course of 2016, the Audit Committee undertook the following activities in relation to risk, internal control, going concern and viability: Governance Area Activities Risk Quarterly reviews of the risk matrix and Key Risk Indicators KRIs Half-yearly reviews of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Internal control Consideration of plan for the year-end review of the system of internal controls.
Quarterly review of internal control monitoring reports to the Board Annual review of the system of internal controls.
Financial Annual treasury policy review.
Review of reserves and resources data and report from SRK.
Non-financial Quarterly review of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme ABAC.
Quarterly report on legal matters land titles and litigation.
Regular reviews of IT Governance, IT Strategy, Cyber-security and Data Protection.
Annual review of compliance with mining licence conditions.
Going concern Half-yearly reviews of the Going Concern Statement and supporting papers.
Viability Review of the process for preparing the Viability Statement including scenario planning assumptions and supporting paper.
Review of the draft Viability Statement prior to submission to Board for approval.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 134 Audit Committee Report continued Risk and Internal Control continued Risk Control exceptions identified in the current year include those Management will continue to build on the existing risk management relating to operational safety, compliance with regulations for framework, seeking to enhance risk governance and management handling hazardous materials and explosives, monitoring of across the business in line with the changes to the UK Corporate electrical installations, installation of auxiliary services within Governance Code.
In order to support the Board in monitoring the the mine, monitoring and operation of tailings deposits and normal risk management activities, the Audit Committee reviewed the oversight over contractors.
These issues are not pervasive managements activities to: throughout the Groups operations but each issue has occurred develop an ongoing continuous monitoring process consisting at least at one of the Groups operating areas and plans for of validating the effectiveness of current controls: remediation have been approved and these are being progressed.
continue promoting ownership of risk mitigation and associated controls among the process owners at the business unit level In the current year the Audit Committee has also received updates being the first line of defence through their periodic reporting on the Groups IT strategy and related risks.
This has included initial on the effectiveness of controls: and consideration of an external cyber-security assessment which consider how our risk management environment is strengthened has highlighted a number of areas for future focus.
Through an through working to ensure that the Groups corporate values and ongoing dialogue with the Executive Committee and operational control culture are embedded throughout the organisation.
management, these findings are being prioritised and remediation plans to address them, including control improvements, are being These efforts have resulted in a transparent analysis of the developed and implemented.
operational, financial and executive management controls for each of the risks that have been identified by management in its risk universe.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on ongoing management actions and initiatives undertaken to respond to During 2016, the Audit Committee and Board formally reviewed control exceptions identified, recognising that, by their nature, these the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group prior to the can take a period of time to take effect.
The Committee reviews publication of both the interim and full-year reports.
and closely monitors progress throughout the year.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the progress that it has seen in the year.
Further details of the risk management system are set out on page 42.
In the prior year, certain opportunities to improve monitoring activities were identified, which have progressed in the year.
The Financial risk management Audit Committee and the Board will continue to closely monitor The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management the implementation and progress of these initiatives during 2017. including information on the Companys exposures to market risk, On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed such as foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation that the following statement to be made about the review of the rate and equity price risks: credit risk and liquidity risk can be system of internal control in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
found in note 31 to the financial statements.
Internal control The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the The Group has in place internal controls and risk management Audit Committee at its February 2017 meeting, reviewed systems in relation to the Groups financial reporting process and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
the Groups process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These As a result of this review, the Board considers that the systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate measures that have been or are planned to be implemented accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded complement Fresnillos risk management framework and accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Board is committed to the continued development During 2016, the Audit Committee has overseen the implementation of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and of a new internal control monitoring document which is prepared maintaining best practice levels of risk management and and submitted to the Board on a quarterly basis.
This document internal control for international mining companies listed specifically reports on internal controls and the key findings from on the London Stock Exchange.
the quarterly internal audit reports.
During the year, management embarked on a communication programme across the business to explain how the internal controls framework operates.
This resulted in managers at each of the Business Units better understanding Going concern how the internal control programme operates.
The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from The process agreed by the Audit Committee to monitor the the approval of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee Groups system of internal controls focused on improving the supported the Board in this assessment by considering whether, understanding of how the various sources of assurance such in adverse circumstances, the Company has adequate liquid as operational management, financial management, executive resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
In February 2017, management and internal audit interact in the review and the Audit Committee reviewed the Group budget and cash flow execution of material controls and identify and address any forecasts for the period to December 2018, taking into account the gaps in the control framework.
To this end, the Audit Committee, Companys anticipated production profiles at each mine, budgeted with the assistance of the risk function and management, has capital and exploration expenditure and the sensitivity of the assessed its approach to monitoring the ongoing effectiveness cashflow forecasts to movements in metal prices.
of the Groups system of internal controls.
That review was concluded by the Audit Committee in February 2017.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 135 The Audit Committee also considered EYs report on this Longer-term viability assessment and on the reasonableness of assumptions therein, Having adopted a robust process for the preparation of the including their consistency with assumptions and estimates Viability Statement which was described in the 2015 Audit used elsewhere in the preparation of the financial statements.
Committee Report, the Audit Committee considered with In particular, the Committee challenged management on the management how the disclosures could be enhanced and further feasibility of the mitigating actions and the potential speed validated.
This discussion concluded that the approach adopted of their implementation.
As a result of the procedures performed, in respect of the 2015 Annual Report should continue to be applied the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the going concern in 2016 but with further analysis around the actions that the Board basis of preparation is appropriate and the financial statements could take for example, contingency planning in mitigating the appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern.
impact of the types of scenarios set out in the Viability Statement.
The Boards Going Concern Statement and longer-term Viability Statement are set out in the strategic report on pages 54 and 55.
Internal Audit The Audit Committee has continued its regular dialogue with internal audit during the year: Frequency Activity Annually Review Internal Audit Plan and its resourcing for the following year.
Twice a year Meeting between the Audit Committee and internal audit without management present.
Every meeting Review of significant internal audit findings including progress with red flags based on the audits conducted during the most recent quarter.
The Head of Internal Audit attends all meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately with the Head of Internal Audit and Internal Audit Manager six times during 2016.
The internal audit team seek to complete audits of all the operating In addition, the Audit Committee has also monitored the risks across all of the Fresnillo Groups mining assets on a regular quality of the dialogue between internal audit and the Executive basis.
During the year, the Audit Committee have worked with Committee in reviewing internal audit findings and agreeing action internal audit to focus on three particular areas: plans with appropriate levels of operational buy-in to deal with the points raised.
The Audit Committee met with the Chief Executive 1.
New mines: Following the emphasis on auditing the Companys Officer and Chief Operating Officer during the year to review this new mines which was initiated in 2015, internal audit continued and is satisfied with the progress achieved through this dialogue.
to examine that proper procedures are implemented from the beginning in those new operations.
This review particularly The members of the Audit Committee evaluate the performance focused on the effectiveness of the processes adopted when of the Internal Audit team annually and in 2016 this process was building and commissioning the San Julin mine.
facilitated by the Chairman of the Audit Committee who discussed 2.
Red flags: At each meeting during the year, the Audit the findings of that review with the Head of Internal Audit and Committee has focussed on the progress made by Internal Audit Manager.
When reviewing the Internal Audit Plan management in dealing with red flag items raised during for the year, the Audit Committee also considered the personnel internal audit visits to ensure that the management responses available within the Internal Audit team, their expertise and to remediation are appropriate and timely.
In 2016, the Audit Committee particularly considered has been made during the year to reduce the number of issues the specialisms within the internal audit team in key areas of risk requiring long-term remedial work that remained outstanding such as IT and safety.
IT issues including Cyber Security and Data Protection : During 2016, the Audit Committee has received presentations from the Head of IT setting out the Group IT Strategy for the year and demonstrating how this supports the overall Group Strategy.
Within these presentations, the Audit Committee has considered the steps being taken by management to: i deal with cyber security threats, and ii ensure appropriate levels of procedural compliance with the requirements of Mexican data protection legislation.
The Audit Committee understands the steps being taken by management to deal with these matters and is satisfied with the progress being made.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 136 Audit Committee Report continued Whistleblowing A summary of all whistleblowing hotline cases and Honour President of Exploration and the Legal Manager.
These Commission responses is presented at each Audit Committee arrangements have been established for some time and the meeting.
Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate investigation of all whistleblowing incidents is undertaken The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders in a timely manner.
to anonymously report via an independent third party violations of the Groups Code of Conduct.
The results are assessed by an During 2016, the Audit Committee was satisfied that all matters independent third party and processed for review by the Honour had been properly investigated with appropriate action taken.
Commission, which is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, The Audit Committee considers that current level of issues raised the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance Officer currently is good evidence that the current programme is being taken the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Vice seriously across the Group and is operating satisfactorily.
Related Parties First half, 2016 activity Second half, 2016 activity Review of related parties list and payments to key Review of insurance programme including the role of related external advisors.
parties in the insurance programme.
Review of the related parties list.
Review of Met-Mex treatment charge and refining charge rates for 2016.
Peoles owns just under 75% of the issued share capital of the Being part of the same Group also provides an opportunity Company see page 125 and therefore has and will continue to for synergistic benefits to be achieved operationally and have a significant level of influence over the affairs and operations administratively.
The principal arrangements between the of Fresnillo.
Company and related parties are: The Shared Services The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the Company and Peoles under which 23 Agreement categories of services are provided to the Company by Peoles.
The Shared Services Agreement was renewed for five years with effect from 31 December 2012.
In order to ensure that Fresnillo is charged appropriately for services rendered by Peoles under the Shared Services Agreement, management have regular meetings with Peoles to discuss its performance against the Key Performance Indicators KPIs for each of the different categories of service where issues of non-compliance are addressed and remediation agreed.
In addition, internal audit conduct reviews of approximately one third of the services provided each year to ensure that these services are provided in accordance with the agreed KPIs.
As a result, all services are reviewed by internal audit over a three-year cycle.
During 2017, the Audit Committee will begin the process for renewing the Shared Service Agreement.
This is expected to follow a similar process to the one used in 2012 and include benchmarking exercises across all of the service categories to ensure that the scope and pricing for each service is appropriate.
The Met-Mex Agreement During the year, the Audit Committee considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex arrangements for 2016 comparing proposed prices to comparable prices charged by Met-Mex to independent customers and to those of other refineries taking account of ore composition and transport costs to ensure that they are reasonable.
Based on the satisfactory outcome of that review, the Chairman of the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the independent Directors approve the proposed charges for 2016 under the Met-Mex arrangements, which they did in October 2016.
Other agreements There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of business e. g. insurance brokerage which, although not requiring approval by independent Directors, will from time-to-time be reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the arrangements are on a reasonable arms-length basis.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 137 The Effectiveness of the Audit Committee In addition to the activities set out above, the Audit Committee takes various steps each year to ensure that the Committee itself and the key functions supporting its role, primarily the external auditor and internal audit continue to be effective.
The key steps are: Activity Outcome in 2016 Review of the training and development requirements for Audit Committee members attended external briefings and seminars Committee members.
to keep their knowledge up-to-date in addition to briefings from the external auditors relating to changes in financial regulation.
Annual Review of the Terms of Reference of the Audit The Company Secretary facilitated a review of the terms of Committee in order to ensure that they remain up-to-date.
reference of the Audit Committee and changes were agreed which aligned the terms of reference with new requirements on non-audit services.
The outcomes of the Audit Committee evaluation in 2016 is discussed below.
Prior to the planned external evaluation in 2017, the Audit Committee conducted an internal evaluation in 2016.
This was facilitated by the Company Secretary, using a questionnaire-based approach.
This was the final step in a three-year process which commenced in 2014 when Independent Audit Limited undertook an externally-led evaluation of the Audit Committee.
The broader context for the 2016 exercise, therefore, was: Year Approach Outcome 2014  evaluation.
The Audit Committee established five key workstreams in response to the 50 recommendations of the evaluation.
2015 Internal Review of the Key Workstreams arising from Progress on the workstreams was monitored and the 2014 evaluation.
reported on in the 2015 Audit Committee Report.
2016 Internal questionnaire to key Audit Committee The key conclusions of this exercise are stakeholders evaluating progress on all of the original summarised below.
recommendations made by Independent Audit Limited.
The conclusions of the 2016 evaluation were that the Audit Oversight of the IT Governance Committee in relation to Committee is satisfied that its core duties in relation to financial the management of the IT strategy and IT-related internal reporting, external audit, risk and internal control, internal audit, controls and the liaison with internal audit.
whistleblowing and related parties are being performed well, The interface between the Audit Committee, internal audit albeit that it recognises the necessity of continuous improvement.
and the HSECR Committee in relation to internal audit findings The Audit Committee intends, however, to consider the following relating to health, safety and environmental matters.
aspects of its activities following its own evaluation exercise and The relationship between the Audit Committees oversight the Board evaluation review: of the Honour Commission and the wider governance of Review of the Boards post-investment review procedures.
culture by the Board and the HSECR Committee.
Oversight of managements evaluation of the Shared Services Agreement as it approaches its renewal date.
The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Charles Jacobs Senior Independent Director 27 February 2017
