Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 116 The Board of Directors Non-independent Non-executive Directors Alberto Baillres Alejandro Baillres Juan Bordes Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 15 April 2008 16 April 2012 10 January 2008 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nominations Committee Chairman N A N A Remuneration Committee Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Long-term knowledge and Insurance and related financial services Senior executive CEO-level understanding of the Mexican in Mexico responsibilities over several years commercial environment Broad board-level commercial Board membership of companies Relationships within the Mexican and experience in Mexico spanning a broad range of sectors international businesses communities and industries Executive Vice-President of Grupo BAL Over a period of 50 years, Mr Baillres and former Chief Executive Officer of During his career, Mr Bordes has has built up unprecedented experience Grupo Nacional Provincial a leading held both senior executive management and knowledge of both the Group and insurance company in Mexico, roles and board responsibilities the Mexican markets in which it operates Mr Baillres brings knowledge and with companies spanning a number from both investor and the supervisory experience of Mexican and international of different sectors, particularly perspectives.
of meetings in year Board 1 Alberto Baillres 3 4 2 Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala Alejandro Baillres 4 4 Juan Bordes 4 4 Arturo Fernndez 4 4 Jaime Lomeln 4 4 Charles Jacobs 4 4 Arturo Fernndez Jaime Lomeln 3 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Brbara Garza Lagera 3 4 Fernando Ruiz 4 4 4 Rafael MacGregor Date of appointment Date of appointment Jaime Serra 4 4 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 5 Alberto Tiburcio 2 2 Committee membership Committee membership HSECR Committee Chairman HSECR Committee Guy Wilson 4 4 1.
The Chairman was unable to attend one meeting due to illness: 2.
Ms Aramburuzabala left the Board in July 2016 due Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience to other business commitments: International economics and public Mining and Engineering 3.
Ms Garza Lagera was unable to attend a meeting policy Senior operational experience because she was in Spain to receive the 2016 Latin American Patron award Premio Iberoamericano Directorships of several Mexican within Mexico fide Mecenazgo to recognise her work in promoting companies the arts and culture.
Mr MacGregor left the Board in April 2016 due to Following a career in metals and mining, other business commitments.
Mr Fernndez career brings together a Mr Lomeln was Chief Executive Officer of 5.
Mr Tiburcio joined the Board on 4 May 2016 and was thus only eligible to join two Board meetings in 2016. solid academic economics background, Fresnillo plc from April 2008 to 15 August many years experience within the 2012 when he became a Non-executive All Directors will seek re-election by Mexican public policy arena and broad Director, thus he brings senior shareholders at the forthcoming commercial experience through board management, mining and engineering Annual General Meeting.
directorships of leading businesses in experience to the Board discussions.
a number of sectors in Mexico.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 117 Independent Non-executive Directors Charles Jacobs Brbara Garza Lagera Fernando Ruiz Senior Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 16 May 2014 16 May 2014 15 April 2008 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Board and governance experience Mexican commercial and industrial Mexican tax and accounting experience Legal professional with a focus on experience International board and audit capital markets, mining and metals International Board experience committee experience Through his experience as a senior As an experienced director, particularly Mr Ruiz was managing partner of Chevez, partner and chairman of global law through her career at Coca-Cola FEMSA Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. tax advisers firm Linklaters LLP, his non-executive KOF and Fomento Econmico and consultants in Mexico and now serves directorships at Investec and his 26 years Mexicano FEMSA, the largest franchise on the board and audit committees of international boardroom advice, bottler of Coca-Cola products in the of several Mexican and international Mr Jacobs brings a governance, legal and world, Ms Garza Lagera brings a broad companies.
He has extensive knowledge regulatory perspective to the boardroom.
experience of Mexican commercial and of Mexican tax and accounting issues.
Jaime Serra Alberto Tiburcio Guy Wilson Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 16 May 2014 4 May 2016 1 July 2008 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Mexican government Mexican audit and accountancy International audit and accountancy International trade and commerce Mexican tax UK Government and Capital Markets Following a distinguished career in Mr Tiburcio was the Chairman and CEO Following a career within Ernst & Young, Government in Mexico, with particular from January 2001 until his retirement which included 29 years as a partner, focus on international trade and industry, in June 2013 of Mancera S. C. EYs Mr Wilson brings extensive experience Mr Serra brings a broad range of Mexican firm.
He has served as statutory of international audit and accounting experience of Mexican politics and auditor and advisor to many prestigious practice, capital markets and transactions.
international trade to the Board.
Mexican companies and brings significant Mexican tax and accounting experience to the Board.
