Audit Committee report THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Committee Membership The membership of the committee changed substantially in the year, with Adam Crozier stepping down from the board after the AGM in May 2016, and Steve Mogford joining the committee following his appointment to the board on 27 May.
Tim Weller stepped down from his role as chairman of the committee in August 2016 prior to his appointment as the Groups chief financial officer in October 2016.
During the search for a new non-executive director qualified to act as the chairman of the committee, Paul Spence was nominated by his fellow committee members to chair the December meeting.
Paul Spence The Company applied all of the principles and provisions of the Audit Committee Chairman Code relevant to the committee throughout the year under review, except that during the period following Tim Weller having stepped down from his role as chairman, the Audit Committee did In 2016, the Audit Committees work focused on monitoring not have a member with recent and relevant financial experience progress made on the implementation of an updated financial for the remainder of the year.
Only one meeting took place during controls framework, designed to improve the effectiveness of that period and no financial results were considered at that the Groups internal risk management and control environment.
The board remains satisfied therefore that formal and We reviewed how these new controls are being embedded in a transparent arrangements for considering how the corporate sustainable way in the business and the progress made in the reporting and risk management and internal control principles culture change that is required along with the change in controls.
should be applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship We also continued our focus on ensuring that matters of with the companys auditor were in place at all times.
judgement were subject to rigorous review, and supported the As reported previously, Ian Springett was appointed to the board board with the analysis of the viability statement and with an and as chair of the Audit Committee with effect from assessment on the preparation of the annual report on a fair, 1 January 2017.
Unfortunately, in January Ian had to take an balanced and understandable basis, particularly considering the extended leave of absence in order to undergo treatment for a guidance on alternative performance measures issued during medical condition.
Accordingly with effect from 20 January 2017, 2016 by the European Securities and Markets Authority Paul Spence was appointed interim chairman of the Audit ESMA and the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Committee and Winnie Fok became a member.
Mr Spence was already a member of the committee.
Ms Fok brings an accounting We have also welcomed three new members onto the and audit background and both Mr Spence and Ms Fok together committee, two of them as a result of directors stepping down with the other members of the committee bring significant and from the committee and one to strengthen further the relevant experience gained at senior management level.
Looking forward to the 2017 financial and experience are set out on page 59.
In order to ensure year, the committee will remain focused on the Groups control continued compliance with main principle C. 1 of the Code, until environment and on monitoring how the changes instigated in Mr Springett is able to take up his role, certain additional steps are 2016 are working in practice.
These include the provision of further support and Committee membership and attendance during 2016 additional training to the interim chair, as well as the promotion of Meetings greater interaction between Mr Spence and the companys attended external auditor.
The chairman engages with the external auditors 1 Paul Spence Chairman 4 of 4 on a regular and in depth basis.
John Daly 3 of 4 At the end of each meeting, a private session is held by the Audit 2 Adam Crozier 2 of 2 Committee with representatives of the Groups external auditor 3 Steve Mogford 2 of 2 or with the group director of risk and internal audit without 1 members of the executive management team being present.
Tim Weller Chairman 3 of 3 After each meeting, the chairman of the committee reports to the 1.
Tim Weller stepped down as chair and as a member of the Audit board on the matters which have been discussed.
Paul Spence was nominated to chair the meeting of the committee in December 2016.
Adam Crozier retired from the board and the Audit Committee after the AGM on 26 May 2016.
The committee ensures that there is effective governance of the 3.
Steve Mogford became a member on 27 May 2016.
Groups financial reporting and internal controls to safeguard the 4.
Other regular attendees include the chief financial officer, the Group integrity of its financial statements and the adequacy of related financial controller, the company secretary, the Group director of risk disclosures, and assists the board in relation to its consideration and internal audit and representatives of the Groups external auditor.
of whether or not the annual report of the Group is fair, balanced The chairman of the board, a chartered accountant who spent his and understandable.
The committee also has oversight of executive career with Deloitte, also attends most meetings.
In addition the performance of both the internal audit function and the the chief executive also attends meetings from time to time when external auditor.
During the year, the terms of reference of the Audit Committee were updated, to reflect the requirements of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive, the CMAs Statutory Audit Services Order and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 New Code.
While the New Code required the members of the committee as a whole to have competence relevant 72 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance to the sectors in which the Company operates, other changes Further details can be found in the committees terms of include the requirement for the committee to approve the reference available at www.
com investors fee for the external audit and the provision of advice to the The committee has an annual agenda, which includes standing board at its request in relation to the viability statement and any items that the committee considers regularly, as well as specific assumptions underpinning it.
matters that require the committees attention.
In addition, in 2016, the committee reviewed and approved managements draft responses to queries raised by the FRC in Main activities of the Audit Committee during the year % respect of the 2014 Annual Report.
Subsequent to the issue of the 2015 Annual Report the FRC confirmed that their enquiries into the 2014 Annual Report were closed.
Effectiveness of financial Changes reflected in the 2015 Annual Report following resolution controls and risk management of the FRCs queries largely comprised enhancements to procedures 35% disclosures, particularly in respect of revenue recognition, taxation, External audit and and specific and other separately disclosed items.
non-audit services 15% Financial reporting 25% Whistleblowing fraud allegations 5% Internal audit 20% Significant judgements and issues considered by the Audit Committee The primary judgements and issues considered by the committee in the 2016 financial statements, and how these were addressed, were: ONEROUS CONTRACT PROVISIONS Details of the outcome of the assessment of contract provisions Description are set out in the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 35.
The Group delivers certain long-term outsourcing services that are complex in nature.
Some of those contracts may evolve to Action taken become loss-making and lead to a position where future net The committee reviewed in respect of each onerous contract, the unavoidable losses over their life are expected.
This requires critical assumptions provided by management and enquired about determining the net present value of future estimated losses in the judgements made, the robustness of the assumptions, the order to calculate an onerous contract provision.
The identification sensitivities to changes in the assumptions and the disclosure and measurement of such provisions requires significant provided in relation to the key material judgements.
The judgement, given the often extended time periods involved and committee also considered the implications of the extension of the number of variables that are not all within the Compass contract to August 2019 announced in December managements control.
2016 and the related sub-contractor dispute.
During the year, management operated the enhanced processes and controls introduced in 2014, including a review by the chief Conclusion financial officer on a quarterly basis of the top 25 contracts and The Audit Committee was satisfied that the level of provisions and those with low profitability for each region.
the related disclosures as at 31 December 2016 were appropriate.
PORTFOLIO RATIONALISATION PROGRAMME therefore reported the results of these businesses in continuing Description businesses in 2016 and have restated the 2015 results accordingly.
The Group has continued to make progress in the portfolio rationalisation programme announced in 2013, identifying During 2016 16 businesses related to the portfolio rationalisation operations in a further 10 businesses or countries to be sold or programme were sold or closed.
Given that the size of the operations in these businesses or countries is individually not significant for the Group, they do not Action taken meet the definition under IFRS 5 to be classified as discontinued The committee reviewed progress made on the portfolio operations.
Management presents them separately in the adjusted rationalisation programme against the Groups strategy announced performance measures in the preliminary results announcement in November 2013, checked that the businesses that management and in the Chief Executive Officers Review and provides a had identified for sale or closure were in line with that strategy detailed reconciliation to the statutory financial statements.
and reviewed the related accounting and disclosure judgements.
Management classifies these entities within assets held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of these entities will Conclusion be recovered principally through a sale transaction in the next The committee was satisfied with the progress made, that the 12 months.
adjusted performance measures in respect of the programme During 2016, for 14 of the businesses previously reported as were presented in a balanced way, and that the information portfolio businesses, management focus and changing market provided to enable stakeholders to reconcile adjusted conditions have resulted in improved performance and we have performance measures to statutory results was appropriate.
formally concluded that we will retain these businesses.
We have Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 73 Audit Committee report continued GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING Description Action taken The total value of the Groups goodwill as at 31 December 2016 The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and results of was 2.0bn, a significant proportion of which was generated by the impairment test prepared by management.
the merger of the security services businesses of Group 4 Falck The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions used in relation and Securicor in 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition to long-term growth, resulting headroom and sensitivities applied of Securicor by Group 4 Falck.
In addition, these results were considered against The estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill supported alternative valuation bases such as reference to transactions for by the Groups cash generating units requires significant similar assets in similar locations, both within the Group and judgement, primarily in relation to the achievability of long-term external to the Group.
business plans and future cash flows.
Such achievability is For those businesses that are expected to be sold as part of the dependent on circumstances both within and outside strategic portfolio management programme, the Audit Committee managements control, in relation to the discount rates adjusted to reviewed the recoverable value on the basis of expected sale reflect risks specific to individual assets used, and in relation to the price less costs to sell, whereas for those portfolio businesses that macro-economic assumptions and related modelling assumptions are expected to be closed, goodwill was impaired fully and the underlying the valuation process.
recoverable value of the assets was considered.
As a result of the annual review of the carrying value of goodwill, Finally, the Audit Committee considered the adequacy of the 9m of goodwill was impaired, relating to a business closure and disclosures provided, particularly in respect of cash generating the balance remaining at the 2016 financial year end was 1,990m units where changes in key assumptions could give rise to see notes 4 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of the Groups goodwill, impairment test and related disclosures are provided in note 18.
Conclusion The committee was satisfied with the carrying value of goodwill and related disclosures as at 31 December 2016.
TAXATION The committee also reviewed information prepared by Description management in relation to existing or potential tax exposures, the The Group operates in around 100 countries and is therefore adequacy of the provisions recorded, their treatment and subject to numerous reviews by individual tax authorities in the disclosure in the financial statements and emerging risks arising ordinary course of business.
In some instances, these may result in from the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting framework.
claims being raised by those tax authorities.
Any claims are handled by the local legal entity in the first instance.
More The committee reviewed information prepared by management complex cases are reviewed by the Group tax function and supporting the recoverability of deferred tax assets, considered provisions, where necessary, are made based on the best estimate the period of time under which these would be recovered and of the likely outcome.
made enquiries of the external auditor on the appropriateness of the Groups tax position.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets in respect of temporary timing differences, mainly in relation to pension arrangements, The committee considered the Groups enhanced disclosures, fixed assets and carried forward losses.
At 31 December 2016, recognising that the FRC has undertaken a thematic review in this total deferred tax assets were 285m 2015: 187m.
Recognising area during the year.
such assets requires an assessment of their likely recovery through utilisation, which includes an assessment of the taxable profits Conclusion expected to be made in each of the relevant jurisdictions in The committee was satisfied with the Groups approach to tax, the future.
with the recoverability of deferred tax assets and with the accounting treatment and disclosure of tax exposures.
Action taken The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups approach to taxation and confirmed that the Group operates under the tax policy approved by the committee in 2015, which complies with the UK Confederation of British Industry seven tax principles.
74 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance RISK OF ACCOUNTING ERRORS AND MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS overall control environment of the Group, including progress Description made on the implementation of the updated financial controls, The Group operates in around 100 countries and has around 650 results of internal audits, training and up-skilling of capabilities legal entities, with a significant number of local financial systems across the Group, as well as the regular reports from the external and processes.
This leads to an inherently diverse set of processes auditor and the output of the whistleblowing process.
and controls that rely on local capabilities for implementation and execution of the controls.
As set out on page 51, the Group has The committee confirmed in particular that controls had been adopted a three lines of defence model to control and manage strengthened to minimise the risk of re-occurrence of control risks across the Group.
failures that required the restatement of the 2014 annual results and balance sheet in the 2015 annual report and considered Over the course of the last three years the Group has made progress made to reduce reliance on manual controls, by significant investment in strengthening capability in finance, internal developing and integrating financial and operational systems across audit and risk and introduced additional internal controls and the Group, covered in further detail by the board.
enhanced Group oversight to mitigate these risks.
These include monthly reviews of the quality of earnings, a comprehensive Conclusion internal audit plan and a regular cycle of reviews of local business The committee acknowledged the progress made in relation to unit or country balance sheets and controls.
the strengthening of controls and the plans in place to reduce the number of systems and reliance on manual controls across the Action taken group, but noted that, although good progress has been made to The committee reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for date, significant work remains to be done over the next 12 to the year as well as the updated financial controls framework rolled 24 months.
The committee received regular updates on the GOING CONCERN AND LIQUIDITY RISK Directors of UK Companies 2009 and its Guidance on Risk Description Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business The Group has net debt of 1,670 million.
The board has set a Reporting published in September 2014. goal of net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times over the medium term.
Action taken The Group has financial covenants related to its committed bank The committee reviewed the Groups projections of cash flow facilities, and the private loan notes, all of which are subject to one and net debt, taking into account reasonable risk sensitivities, as financial covenant based on net debt to EBITDA ratio, measured well as the financing facilities and funds available to the Group.
in accordance with the respective agreements, where net debt to The committee also reviewed compliance with covenants, the EBITDA should be lower than 3.5 times.
Non-compliance with availability of headroom in relation to those covenants, reasonable covenants could lead to an acceleration of maturities.
downside scenarios considering the risk profile of the Group, as Consideration of whether the Group is a going concern is a well as the going concern assumptions in the context of the fundamental responsibility of the board and the Audit Committee three-year viability statement included on page 55. has given this matter its full attention.
The going concern assertion has a significant impact on the financial statements in terms of Conclusion both the valuation of assets and liabilities held and the The committee was satisfied that the Group should adopt the presentation of assets and liabilities as non-current.
The Audit going concern basis of accounting in the financial statements and Committee has given due consideration to the guidance issued by recommended the same to the board.
the FRC Going Concern and Liquidity Risk guidance for SPECIFIC ITEMS The committee also reviewed information from management to Description satisfy itself that changes in estimates related to items that were The Audit Committee reviewed the treatment of items classified as specific items were treated equally and consistently as considered as specific items and therefore requiring separate specific items, in particular for both top-up and reversal of disclosure to assist the reader in understanding the results of the provisions.
The committee noted that the volume of specific items Group.
Management prepared documentation to support these was reduced significantly in 2016 following its establishment of a items and the disclosure proposed in the financial statements.
threshold amount below which onerous contracts and other transactions would no longer be considered for classifications as Action taken specific items.
The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged, in light of the guidance issued by the FRC in December 2013 and October Conclusion 2016, the disclosures prepared by management in relation to The committee was satisfied that the Groups accounting policy specific items, considered whether the nature of these items was on specific and other separately disclosed items had been applied consistent with the Groups accounting policies that were being correctly and that the designation of specific items was subject to applied consistently from year to year and confirmed that these objective and balanced criteria, with clear disclosure and items included both debits and credits as appropriate.
explanation of non-recurring items, and was appropriate to give a meaningful and balanced view of the continuing operations of the Group.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 75 Audit Committee report continued Viability statement Internal control As mentioned earlier, the committees terms of reference were Since 2013, the Group has had a heightened focus on improving updated during the year to clarify that the committee would systems of internal control and risk management for financial provide advice to the board at its request in relation to the reporting.
The main features of these control systems include viability statement.
At the March 2017 meeting, the committee clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a reviewed a paper prepared by management which examined the comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, written longer term solvency and viability of the Group.
The committee policies and procedures and the use of a single global tested the underlying assumptions and analysis performed by consolidation system for both internal management reporting, management, reviewed assurance work carried out and budgeting and planning as well as for external reporting.
considered the appropriateness of the timeframe of the The system is designed to ensure the integrity of financial assessment.
The committee was satisfied that the three-year reporting and the committees responsibility is to ensure that period covered by the viability statement remains appropriate in these internal controls remain effective.
The committee does this that it aligns with the Groups regular business planning period, primarily through receiving reports from management, from the over which management has a reasonable level of confidence in its internal audit function and from the external auditor.
projections reflecting the life cycle of the majority of the Groups contracts, and takes account of the limited visibility on material The committee reviewed progress on the strengthening of bidding opportunities in the pipeline beyond that period.
The internal controls, and on plans to continue progress, which committee also reviewed and challenged the outcome of the included a targeted audit plan for 2016 from Group Internal Audit stress-testing of projections by management.
for those areas where issues have been identified, such as fair value adjustments in respect of legacy acquisitions in Brazil, and a The committee recommended to the board that the directors review of the Groups financial control framework with a view to confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group simplifying it to cover key essential controls to ensure that these will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they are met, along with training programmes and up-skilling capabilities.
fall due over the three-year period of the assessment, as set out on page 55.
The committee also considered the plans being implemented by management to reduce reliance on manual controls, through the Fair, balanced and understandable gradual implementation and integration of new financial systems.
One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial Further details on internal controls are set out on page 51.
The statements is for the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, Audit Committee confirmed to the board that it is satisfied that balanced and understandable.
Guidelines on Alternative the Groups risk management and internal control processes and Performance Measures APMs were issued by the European procedures are appropriate and effective.
Securities and Markets Authority ESMA and have been applicable since July 2016.
In addition, the FRC issued a Frequently Internal audit Asked Questions guidance document and published the results of During 2016, the internal audit function spent a significant amount its thematic review on this matter.
The committee considered each of time reviewing the operational effectiveness and providing of the above in assessing whether the Groups annual report was training and advice to business units on minimum financial controls fair, balanced and understandable.
in order to prevent recurrence of previous control failures.
This The committee reviewed a paper setting out the approach taken included the roll-out of an updated financial controls framework, by management in the preparation of the annual report to ensure the completion by business units of self-assessments against these it met the requirements of the FRCs Code and the ESMA controls based on their local control environment, with review and guidance, including the reasons for and clear explanation of the oversight of progress provided through the Regional Audit non-GAAP measures used by the Group in reporting its results Committees.
This enabled the identification of areas for for the year.
The paper described the process and procedures improvement and where further training would be useful.
followed and detailed the steps taken in each of the sections of Additional follow-up reviews of businesses and areas where the annual report to ensure that the information presented was improvement was considered to be necessary were carried out.
This paper also described the review In 2017 the internal audit team will focus on assessing the processes carried out internally to ensure that the annual report is effectiveness of a broader set of mandated controls with the goal fair, balanced and understandable.
In addition, an external of focusing local management on the most material control issues verification exercise was carried out to confirm that the specific to their local environment, again with the support of the information contained in the annual report is supported by factual Regional Audit Committees to assist in driving improvements evidence or confirmation from management where such where appropriate.
information is a statement of belief or intent.
The committee was satisfied with the work performed and advised the board that the annual report, taken as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the business and its performance for the year under review.
76 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance External auditor Regulators review of our external audit Following an audit tender process during 2014 During the year, the Audit Quality Review AQR team from the  LLP PwC was appointed the Groups FRC reviewed the quality of the 2015 audit performed by PwC.
new external auditor for the 2015 financial year.
PwC was The committee discussed the results of that review, which were subsequently re-appointed at the 2016 AGM to hold office until satisfactory, corroborating the results of the committees own the next AGM.
Richard Hughes has been lead audit partner since independent evaluation of PwC which concluded that the external the beginning of 2015. auditor was effective.
The committee received a report from PwC detailing how the 2016 audit would address the one finding During the year, the committee reviewed PwCs Group audit plan identified by the AQR team and was satisfied with PwCs and the scope to be undertaken, reviewed their reports on planned response.
external audit findings with particular focus on the areas set out above, had private sessions with the external auditor both during CMA Order Compliance the year and at the Audit Committee, and approved the fee for The G4S Group audit was put out to tender in 2014, following the external audit.
The committee also considered and approved which PwC were appointed with effect from 2015.
The committee the representation letter to be issued to the auditor.
thereby confirms that the company has complied with the Audit Services for Large Companies Mandatory Use of Competitive Non-audit services Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities To ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised, Order 2004. the committee has put a policy in place covering the non-audit services that can be provided by the external auditor, the relevant Committee performance approval process for certain services, and detailing those services The assessment of the committees performance, conducted with which the auditor is prohibited from providing.
In essence, the assistance from Lintstock, concluded that the committee remained external auditor is prohibited from providing services that could effective, in particular in reviewing the quality of the Groups create a conflict of interest, result in the audit firm auditing its own financial reporting.
In 2017, we will review the committeesannual work, or result in the performance of management functions.
cycle of work to ensure appropriate alignment with the boards Examples of non-permitted services are actuarial services, agenda and the boards induction for new members.
We will also book-keeping services, internal audit outsourcing services and review managements plans to sustainably embed controls across legal services.
The committee has pre-approved certain services which can be provided by the auditor subject to specified fee limits, above which further approval is required.
All other services would require prior approval by the committee.
Every year, the Audit Committee reviews its policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
During 2016, amendments were made to the non-audit services policy to take account of the FRCs revised Ethical Standard issued in June, which prohibited certain services previously permitted including the majority of tax services and limited the pre-approval of other services at a level of fees which would be clearly trivial with effect from 1 January 2017.
The auditor, PwC, has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it was independent for the period through to 28 March 2017.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services can be found in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
Effectiveness of the external auditor A combination of formal and informal processes is used in the assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
A formal questionnaire is completed at the end of the audit by members of the Audit Committee, by the group finance department and by the finance directors of significant operations across the Group, and the results of those questionnaires are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The assessment of the external audit for 2016 concluded that it remained effective and that the external auditor is independent.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 77
