Corporate governance report OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The board oversees the Groups overall governance framework, reviews and approves the strategy, monitors managements performance against agreed targets and ensures appropriate controls are in place and operating effectively.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Review board composition Lead the process for new board and committee appointments Review succession planning processes See page 69 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Review, agree and establish the companys CSR strategy and recommend policies to ensure these remain an integral part of the Groups strategy Monitor compliance with CSR policies throughout the Group and the integration of CSR processes within the Groups risk management and approval processes See page 70 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Review and approves the Advise the board on Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance companys strategy Oversee the companys risk management framework and Monitor managements review its effectiveness performance against agreedtargets Review major contracts and projects Review, approve and promote See page 71 GROUP RISK companys values and standards AND INTERNAL Review its own performance AUDIT on a yearly basis AUDIT COMMITTEE FUNCTION Role and responsibilities Oversee the financial reporting process and ensure the integrity of the companys financial statements CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Monitor internal audit Approve external audit scope and fee, review and monitor external auditors independence GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE See page 72 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Approve remuneration of chairman of the board, the executive directors, other members of the executive committee and the company secretary of the board Monitor level and structure of remuneration of other senior management of the Group See page 78 62 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board.
These fall within 12 categories: Board membership and The board fulfils a number of its other appointments most important functions through its Strategy and management committees.
The work of these committees Remuneration Structure and capital is described below in this report.
Delegation of authority The terms of reference of each of the Financial reporting and controls Corporate governance matters committees are available on the Risk and internal controls Companys website at www.
Other matters such as settling Communication material litigation Management decisions, development and implementation of strategy are delegated to management.
KEY ROLES IN GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Chairman of the board Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Responsible for promoting good Responsible for developing and Manages financial risks in accordance corporate governance and ensuring implementing the Groups strategy with the risk appetite set by the board board compliance with regulatory and plans and implements effective internal requirements financial control processes across Responsible for the overall the Group Ensures board effectiveness management and promotion of the Group Responsible for financial planning Promotes a culture of challenge, to support the Companys debate, openness and support Manages the Groups risk profile in strategic objectives accordance with the risk appetite set Ensures NEDs receive a by the board Leads the Groups finance, internal comprehensive induction and audit, procurement, information on-going training to support the Ensures effective communication technology, tax and treasury functions performance of their duties between the board and the business Provides regular financial reporting to Maintains regular contact with major the board shareholders and conveys their views to the board Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive Company Secretary directors NEDs Acts as a sounding board for the Challenge constructively Secretary to the board and chairman and as intermediary for the its committees Monitor managements performance other directors when needed against agreed targets Responsible for advising the board Maintains a balanced understanding of through the chairman on all governance, Satisfy themselves on the integrity of the views of major shareholders regulatory and legislative matters financial information and that financial Maintains regular and effective controls and systems of risk Ensures all directors have access to communication with other directors management are effective the advice and services of the company secretariat Leads the yearly appraisal of the Determine appropriate levels of chairmans performance remuneration of executive directors Responsible for ensuring compliance with board procedures and processes Chairs the Nomination Committee Prime role in appointing directors when it is considering issues directly andin board succession planning Supports the chairman and chief affecting the chairman executive officer in preparing and organising induction programmes for NEDs Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 63 Corporate governance report continued BOARD BALANCE Board balance Non- % 80 Executive directors visits.
Information about the interactions Board composition Executive % between members of the board, in particular As at the date of this report, the board 20 directors non-executive directors, and the business comprises 10 members: the non-executive during the year are set out on page 68. chairman John Connolly, seven other non-executive directors and two executive Gender Board performance review directors.
The board considers all the Male % In 2016, Lintstock Limited assisted the non-executive directors to be independent.
70 board with its performance review.
The Female The names of the directors serving as at review involved detailed self-assessment % 30 31 December 2016 and their biographical questionnaires being completed by board details are set out on pages 58 and 59.
All members and regular board committee these directors served throughout the year attendees.
The results of the questionnaires Industry under review, apart from Steve Mogford, a were used as the basis for reports experience non-executive director and the Senior produced by Lintstock which analysed the Business services Independent Director who was appointed performance of not only the board, but on 27 May 2016 and Barbara Thoralfsson, a also each board committee and director.
Energy Utilities non-executive director, who was appointed These reports were considered by the on 1 July 2016.
Adam Crozier and Mark board and each of the boards committees Elliott, two non-executive directors, both Finance when reviewing their performance and retired from the board at the conclusion of informed the planning for the boards the Companys annual general meeting, on FMCG priorities in 2017.
Himanshu Raja, an executive As part of this review process, Lintstock director, stepped down from the board on Logistics also reported on the performance of each 1 October 2016.
Ian Springett, whose of the directors and separately on that of biographical details also appear on page 59, Manufacturing the chairman.
The individual director was appointed to the board on operations reviews were used as the basis for the 1 January 2017.
Technology chairmans individual discussion with each of the directors about their performance Induction, information and and any training and development needs.
professional development Geographical A tailored induction is provided to new The report on the chairman was used directors joining the board.
In the case of to inform the discussion amongst the experience non-executive directors, this includes non-executive directors about the Africa spending time with the executive directors chairman which was conducted by the and other senior executives to understand senior independent director without the Asia Pacific the business, its structure and people, as chairman being present.
well as the Companys strategy and Europe Lintstock has no connection with the financial performance.
Induction also Company other than evaluating the board provides details of the Groups governance and its committees performance.
Latin America policies and values as well as its structure and risk management framework.
Middle East & India The induction programme is designed to ensure directors joining the board have the INDUCTION PROGRAMME North America necessary understanding of their role and FOCUSED SESSION how they can maximise their effectiveness.
UK & Ireland To build on the induction programme, As part of their induction programme, in directors receive further briefings both to September, Steve Mogford and Barbara help in their own development and also to Thoralfsson attended a session designed enhance their awareness of the different to develop further their understanding Board tenure 2016 elements of the business.
Briefings are of the Companys business, markets and 2 years % provided to board members on legal, main relationships.
Over a day, they met 30 or less governance, compliance and reporting with and received in-depth presentations 2 yrs % developments and to members of from members of the group executive 4 yrs 20 board committees from time to time team and senior managers.
Areas 4yrs % on matters relevant to their work on covered included strategy and investor 30 6 yrs those committees.
relations, finance and information 6 yrs technology, governance and corporate % In addition, non-executive directors learn 20 8 yrs social responsibility as well as legal, about the Groups business and meet human resources and health and safety.
employees and management through site 64 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Diversity BOARD MEETINGS Diversity is one of the Groups organisational strengths, which helps it Seven scheduled board meetings and a At each meeting, the board receives operate successfully across a wide range number of additional meetings and calls regular reports and in-depth of countries and complex environments.
were held during the year ended presentations from line and functional The Groups workforce reflects that 31 December 2016.
Each year, one of executives and the board makes visits to diversity in terms of its mix of gender, these meetings is an extended two-day business sites from time to time.
After age, race, religion, nationality, language, meeting at which, in addition to normal meetings of the board committees, the background and experience.
board business, the board and executive respective chairmen report to the board committee review the Group strategy.
on the matters considered by For the board, diversity of thinking and each committee.
experience is seen as vital to ensure the Prior to each board meeting, Group can seize the right opportunities in comprehensive papers are circulated to After each board meeting the chairman each market to grow and consider fully the the directors addressing not only the holds a meeting attended solely by the risks of doing so.
As well as being diverse in regular agenda items on which the non-executive directors.
terms of gender and nationality, the board executives will report, but also details of There are seven board meetings also includes members with diverse skills, any matters requiring approval or scheduled for 2017 including a two-day personal attributes and experience.
Some decisions, such as significant transactions.
members have international assignment experience and others bring extensive meetings experience of a variety of industries.
In Meeting attendance in 2016 attended addition, the board has a mix of both long-serving and new members.
These Executive directors differences greatly enrich debate in the Ashley Almanza CEO 10 10 boardroom, bring fresh perspectives and 1 6 Himanshu Raja CFO 6 8 new market and customer understanding.
26 Whilst recruitment of any new members Tim Weller CFO 8 10 to the board is always based on merit, Non-executive directors diversity is a key consideration.
In recent appointments, assistance has been sought John Connolly chairman 10 10 from executive search agencies which are 3 Adam Crozier 4 4 signatories of the Voluntary Code of 5 John Daly 9 10 Conduct to help ensure the most diverse 3 talent pools are reached and an approach Mark Elliott senior independent director 4 4 in line with best practice is adopted.
Winnie Fok 10 10 4 Steve Mogford senior independent director 6 6 Paul Spence 10 10 Clare Spottiswoode 10 10 Barbara Thoralfsson 5 5 Board activities % 1.
Mr Raja stepped down from his role of chief financial officer and from the board on 1 October 2016.
Mr Weller was a non-executive director until 24 October 2016 when he became chief financial officer.
Messrs Elliott and Crozier retired from the board on 26 May 2016.
Mr Mogford took on the role of senior independent director on 27 May 2016 and Ms Thoralfsson joined the board on 1 July 2016.
Mr Daly was unable to attend one meeting due to a commitment made prior to his appointment to the board.
In relation to one additional meeting, apologies were received from Messrs Raja and Weller who had a conflicting engagement.
In relation to another additional meeting called to discuss the position of the chief financial officer, Messrs Raja and Weller who had both been invited to attend the meeting each decided not to do so given that they would have a conflict of interest and be unable to take part in almost the entirety of the meeting.
Performance monitoring 30% Group strategy 21% Governance and risk 19% Understanding the business 12% Board and committee composition 9% Speci c issues 9% Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 65 Corporate governance report continued Both the Regional Audit Committees Director re-election RISK MANAGEMENT AND and members of the group executive The Companys articles of association INTERNAL CONTROL committee receive internal audit reports require that all continuing directors are The board has carried out a robust that cover key risks.
subject to election by shareholders at the assessment of the principal risks facing next annual general meeting following their The chief executive officer, chief financial the Company and of how those risks appointment and that they submit officer and group director of risk and audit might affect the prospects of the Company.
themselves for re-election at least every report on risks and planned mitigations The principal risks and their possible three years and that at least one-third of to the Risk Committee of the board.
The impact on the Company and the the directors not standing for election for process outlined above is reviewed regularly mitigations taken are set out on pages 52 the first time stand for re-election at each by the board through its Risk Committee to to 55. annual general meeting.
However, in ensure its robustness and suitability to meet accordance with the UK Corporate The directors acknowledge their the Groups needs.
Further information Governance Code provision on re-election responsibility for the Groups system of about the Risk Committee, its remit, work of directors, all continuing directors stand risk management and internal control and during 2016 and its plans for 2017 can be for re-election every year.
for reviewing its effectiveness each year.
Through the Audit Committee, the board During 2017 the risk management Conflicts authorisation conducted a review of the effectiveness of improvement plan will continue to focus the systems of internal control during the Each of the directors has disclosed to the on: early identification and mitigation of year.
The systems are designed to manage board any situations which apply to them emerging risks: progressing mitigation rather than eliminate the risk of failure to as a result of which they have or may have action plans: and enhancing the relevance achieve business objectives and can only an interest which conflicts or may conflict and accuracy of information being provide reasonable and not absolute with the interests of the Company.
In provided to the business.
assurance against material misstatement accordance with the companys articles of or loss.
association, the board has authorised such The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation matters.
The affected directors did not The enterprise risk management vote when their own interests were procedures, a comprehensive budgeting governance model described on page 51 and monthly reporting system and written considered.
Where the board deemed it sets out some of the key features of the appropriate, such authorisation was given policies and control standards.
Groups risk management process, which subject to certain conditions.
The board was in place throughout the year under In addition to a wide range of internal reviews such matters on a regular basis.
The key elements are: audit reports, senior management also receives assurance from other sources Country and regional management including security inspections, third party teams are required to identify and reviews, external audit reports, summaries SITE TRIP TO BRUSSELS manage risks in their business.
of whistleblowing activity, fraud reports and Significant risks and mitigating actions self-assessments by country management In December 2016, board and are recorded in the Groups governance teams of their effective operation of key committee meetings were held in risk and control tool.
In addition to receiving an In addition to this bottom-up review in-depth business presentation and The Group has in place appropriate members of the group executive meeting with strategic customers, board internal control and risk management committee provide input to the risk members visited business operations in systems for financial reporting.
The Group identification process and address Zaventem airport and at the G4S office has a single global consolidation system identified gaps in mitigating actions located in close proximity to Maelbeek which is used for both internal through updates in key controls that metro station in central Brussels.
management reporting, budgeting and countries must use to mitigate many of planning as well as external reporting.
Board members met employees who their risks.
were affected by the horrific attacks of The risk profiles ensure that internal 22 March 2016, including some G4S audit reviews of the adequacy, colleagues who were injured in the application and effectiveness of risk attacks at the airport.
At our central management and internal controls are Brussels office, members of the board targeted on the key risks.
met employees who, having turned their office into a temporary first aid centre, used their medical and organisational skills to provide support to victims of the attacks on the metro.
The board commended their dedication and bravery in these extremely difficult circumstances.
66 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance The Group has a comprehensive budgeting A broad overview of the general risk FAIR, BALANCED AND process with the budget being approved management and internal control UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT by the board.
Forecasts for the year are systems in place during the year reported quarterly.
Actual results at In accordance with the UK Corporate External audit year-end reporting on Governance Code, the board has given business unit, region and Group level are financial controls and accounting reported monthly and variances are consideration to whether the Integrated Further information about the Audit Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is reviewed.
A programme of balance sheet Committee, its remit, work during 2016 reviews was included in the work of Group fair, balanced and understandable.
The and its plans for 2017 can be found on preparation of the annual report and internal audit during 2016. pages 72 to 77. accounts is coordinated by the finance, The Audit Committee undertakes a investor relations and company secretariat Whilst good improvement has been made high-level review of risk management and teams with Group-wide support and input in the quality of internal controls during the internal control each year.
As well as the from other areas of the business.
year, given the number of countries in above processes and sources of assurance, Comprehensive reviews were undertaken which the Group operates and the variety the Audit Committee also considers the at regular intervals throughout the process of systems used across the Group there is following year-end reporting in conducting by management and other contributing still opportunity for improvement in the this review: personnel within the Group.
The process operational effectiveness of mandated Summary of internal audit work was reviewed by the Audit Committee and controls and this will continue to be a including update on all open audits with the board has reviewed a paper setting out focus during 2017.
The Audit Committee a deficient rating, analysis of results by the governance relating to the preparation has confirmed that it is satisfied that the region, common audit findings and of the report prepared by management.
Groups risk management and internal areas identified for improvement in The board has separately considered the control processes are appropriate.
The internal controls disclosures in the Integrated Report and board has reviewed the Groups risk Accounts and has concluded that they are Summary of exceptions on compliance management and internal control system fair, balanced and understandable.
The statements from each country reported for the year to 31 December 2016 by statement required to be given by the through their regional executives.
These considering reports from the Audit directors by Code provision C. 1.1 can be cover a broad range of matters Committee and the Risk Committee and found on page 102. including: accuracy of financial reporting has taken account of events since and that all significant accounting 31 December 2016. judgements have been discussed with group finance team: core controls have operated effectively: risk reporting and mitigation is up to date: Speak Out is operated in accordance with Group policies COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The boards statement on the Companys the Code, except during the last four corporate governance performance is months of the year under review in based on the September 2014 edition relation to the composition of the Audit of the UK Corporate Governance Committee.
This matter is addressed on Code, which is available on the page 72.
The Corporate governance Financial Reporting Councils website report, together with the Audit https: www.
committee report, the Risk committee report and the Directors remuneration The Company complied throughout the report, describe how the board has year under review with the provisions of applied these provisions.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 67 Corporate governance report continued BOARD CONNECTIONS 2016 2017 SUMMARY BOARD PLAN The board conducted a visit to two Each year, following consideration sites in one of the Groups largest of Lintstocks report on the boards markets in Europe.
Further details of performance the board formally adopts the boards trip to Brussels are set a plan setting out the key areas of focus.
out on page 66 In 2017, our plan will again include: The chairmans three-day visit to Annual review of Group strategy meet the business and senior and execution of the strategy management team in India in June Induction and integration of new and two-day visit to the UAE in board members October during which he visited Board and management various business sites and met with succession planning senior management Monitoring business performance Board members attended the Global Leadership Trade Fair in Increasing understanding of the London in March Groups businesses and management teams Paul Spence attended meetings of the Regional Audit Committees for Maintaining emphasis on risk both the North America and Latin management and efficient structures America regions Throughout the year, the board received presentations from members of the Group Executive team and also had the opportunity to meet members of senior management at events organised from time to time RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company actively seeks to engage by a NSRI investor and adviser please see with shareholders and during 2016, page 15 and the 2016 CSR report for the chief executive officer and the more details.
In addition, Clare had a chief financial officer had contact via number of ad hoc meetings one-on-one meetings, group meetings with investors.
and telephone conference calls with It is intended that all the directors shareholders and analysts.
The shareholders other than Clare Spottiswoode who covered represented over 80% of the has a conflicting engagement will attend share register and over 220 institutions.
and be available to answer questions at In January and February 2017 the the Companys annual general meeting, chairman met with major shareholders which is an important opportunity for as part of an annual round of governance communication between the board meetings.
The chairman reported on and shareholders, particularly private those meetings to the board.
At the annual general the CSR Committee, Clare Spottiswoode, meeting, the meeting is informed of the and relevant senior executives met with number of proxy votes cast and the final a group of Socially Responsible Investors results of votes on the resolutions are in September 2016, updating them on published subsequently on the the Groups corporate responsibility companys website.
On the same day, senior management hosted a visit to two prisons 68 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The committees terms of reference are available at www.
Refreshing the board Mark Elliott and Adam Crozier retired from the board in 2016.
Mark fulfilled several roles Senior Independent Director, Remuneration Committee chairman and member of the Nomination Committee and Adam sat on the Audit and Nomination Committees.
The Nomination Committee gave consideration to how these roles would be filled as well as to the balance of expertise and experience available to the board after their departures.
John Daly took on the Remuneration Committee John Connolly chairmanship on 27 May 2016.
JCA Partners LLP JCA was Nomination Committee Chairman appointed to assist the Nomination Committee with the recruitment of two more non-executive directors, and Steve In what was a busy year for the Nomination Committee, I am Mogford and Barbara Thoralfsson were appointed on 27 May and pleased to report that the new appointments made during the 1 July respectively.
Steve and Barbara joined me on this committee.
year, and described in the report below, have resulted in a strong Steve also joined the Audit committee and Barbara also joined the increase in the mix of skills and competence on the board.
We announced on 15 August 2016 that addition, succession planning remains an area of strong focus.
Tim Weller would succeed Himanshu Raja as chief financial officer.
As a result, Tim stood down as chairman and as a member of the Audit Committee membership and attendance during 2016 Committee.
He became chief financial officer on 24 October 2016.
The Zygos Partnership Zygos was appointed to assist with the Meetings attended search for a new non-executive director qualified to act as the John Connolly Chairman 4 of 4 chairman of the Audit Committee.
On 1 January 2017, Ian Springett 1 was appointed to the board.
Each of JCA and Zygos was provided Adam Crozier 2 of 2 1 with a brief setting out the requirements for the roles to be filled and Mark Elliott 2 of 2 preferred attributes of potential candidates.
In selecting candidates, 2 Steve Mogford 2 of 2 consideration was given to the skills and competence required to fill 3 Barbara Thoralfsson 2 of 2 the role, the need to maintain and enhance diversity of relevant skills and experience on the board as well as corporate culture and fit.
Mark Elliott and Adam Crozier retired from the board and the Shortlisted candidates were then interviewed by the chairman, the Nomination Committee after the conclusion of the companys annual general meeting on 26 May 2016. members of the committee and the CEO.
Steve Mogford was appointed to the board, the Audit Committee and has any connection with the Company other than as provider of the Nomination Committee on 27 May 2016. recruitment consultancy services to the Nomination Committee, 3.
Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the board, the Remuneration save that JCA has in the past also provided a benchmarking service Committee and the Nomination Committee on 1 July 2016. for a senior management role.
The term of appointment of Mr Connolly, Ms Spottiswoode, Ms Fok and Mr Spence expired during 2016 and after consideration of their independence, commitment to the role, their other commitments and the experience and qualities they bring to the board, the committee recommended to the board that their appointment be extended.
Mr Connolly did not participate in the Responsibilities committees deliberations regarding his term of appointment.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on appointments and on Succession planning maintaining a balance of skills and experience on the board and its The entire board has considered succession planning for the committees.
Succession planning for the board is a matter which is senior management of the Group during 2016 and in addition, devolved primarily to the Nomination Committee, although the the Nomination Committee gave further consideration to board committees deliberations are reported to and debated by the full succession plans.
The board itself also reviews more general succession planning for the senior management of the Group.
Diversity The boards approach to diversity is set out on page 65.
Main activities of the Nomination Committee during the Committee performance year % The performance of the Nomination Committee was reviewed as part of the process undertaken by each of the board committees with assistance from Lintstock.
The Nomination Committees Recruitment of NEDs 65% performance was determinedto have been satisfactory, but areas Extending terms of of increased focus were identified and have been included as appointments for NEDs 10% priorities for the committees work in 2017.
Succession planning 15% Reviewing board In 2017, the committee will continue to ensure that it has committee membership 10% appropriate plans for board and executive succession.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 69 Corporate governance report continued THE CSR COMMITTEE Main activities of the CSR Committee during the year % Current issues 35% Health and Safety 25% CSR reporting 20% Culture, Business ethics, anti-corruption, human rights 20% Clare Spottiswoode CSR Committee Chair Good CSR practice underpinned by strong corporate culture The CSR Committee receives regular updates on current issues from the human resources and CSR teams.
The results of the and values, is at the heart of how we do business.
In 2016, our values were updated to ensure better alignment with the Group materiality exercise completed towards the end of 2015 informed the Groups CSR strategy and CSR reporting in 2016.
As part of strategy and vision and launched to the senior management population.
We look forward to sharing the results of this the CSR Committees focus on health and safety during the year, the committee oversaw the revision and re-issue of the health and initiative with the entire organisation and our stakeholders during 2017. safety management system and standards to health and safety professionals across the Group.
This initiative was supported by Our continued focus on health and safetywill remain a key part the provision of additional guidance and training.
of the committees activity during 2017.
As part of its normal cycle of work, the committee received regular health and safety reports including the results of seven Committee membership and attendance during 2016 critical country reviews CCRs carried out during the year.
Meetings CCRs remain an important and effective tool to support those attended businesses where fatalities have occurred in assessing their Clare Spottiswoode Chair 3 of 3 health and safety management, raising awareness and ensuring 1 Winnie Kin Wah Fok 2 of 3 improvements and appropriate mitigations are put into place.
Paul Spence 3 of 3 Unfortunately the number of fatalities across the Group in 2016 has not reduced from the previous year.
Winnie Fok was unable to attend one meeting following the Trend data showed that the number of fatalities resulting from cancellation of her flight due to typhoon conditions.
road traffic accidents had decreased significantly, but unfortunately Other regular attendees include, the regional president for the the effect of this improvement was negated by a rise in the level of UK and Ireland region, the group corporate affairs director and attack-related fatalities.
In 2017, the committee will oversee renewed the group human resources director.
From 2017, the regional efforts deployed to reinforce training of front-line employees.
president for the Africa region, will also be a regular attendee.
Committee performance The assessment of the committees performance, conducted as part of the overall board review process with assistance from Lintstock, concluded that the committee continued to perform Responsibilities well in monitoring compliance with CSR policies and in seeking to The CSR Committee reviews and monitors the Groups CSR embed them within the Groups business processes.
Following the strategy, which includes developing policies on various CSR-related performance review, the committee has concluded that it should matters for consideration by the board and reviewing the activities continue to focus on a small set of topics that are relevant globally of the executives who have responsibility for CSR matters.
The and provide strong oversight on improving them, as well as CSR Committee also reviews and monitors how the Group ensuring that health and safety and compliance continues to be a performs against relevant policies.
The committee oversees reporting on CSR matters and the Work also includes the committee overseeing the implementation companys separate CSR Report for 2016, which provides more of the culture and values initiative across the Group and reviewing details on the Groups CSR strategy and progress made during the integration of CSR processes with the Groups broader the year, is available at www.
Further details of the business risk management.
committees responsibilities can be found in the committees terms of reference which are available at www.
70 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance THE RISK COMMITTEE Main activities of the Risk Committee during the year % Large contract bid approval 25% In depth review of speci c high risk contracts projects 30% Risk governance Internal controls 25% Contract, risk management 20% Paul Spence Risk Committee Chairman In 2016, the Risk Committee continued to oversee Risk governance remained a strong area of focus during 2016 with the Risk Committee receiving regular reports on thecontinuing managements ongoing work to improve the quality of risk management across the Group.
process of embedding enterprise risk management standards further and cascading accountability for risk management to These changes included placing more accountability for risk country and operational business management.
The committee management where it is most effective, i. e. at operating unit also monitored the initiative to streamline risk management level, by improving the understanding of and compliance with processes and simplify minimum controls applicable to various those controls which have the most material impact on the functions including finance, legal, human resources, firearms, management of our key risks.
We also monitored managements screening andhealth and safety across the Group.
The review and initiative to simplify and improve minimum financial controls and update of contract approval processes was also the subject of two legal and human resources policies.
presentations at the March and December meetings.
During the year, the Risk Committee received regular updates on Committee membership and attendance during 2016 significant residual risks and carried out detailed reviews including Meetings delivery of core service lines and major contracts.
Further details attended of the significant risks and uncertainties facing the business are set Paul Spence Chairman 7 of 7 out on pages 52 to 55.
Ashley Almanza 7 of 7 Contract risk management remains a key area of focus for the John Connolly 7 of 7 1 committee which undertakes a review of a major contract at each Himanshu Raja 6 of 6 of its meetings.
The Risk Committee also considered proposed Tim Weller 7 of 7 bids for certain contracts that required board approval between scheduled board dates.
Himanshu Raja retired from the Risk Committee in October 2016.
Other regular attendees include the group director of risk and Committee performance internal audit.
The result of the assessment of the committees performance Four scheduled committee meetings and a number of in 2016, carried out with Lintstocks assistance, was again positive.
additional meetings and calls were held during the year ended The committees work had been particularly effective in ensuring 31 December 2016. the companys risk management policies were aligned with its strategy.
In 2017, we will review major contracts, selected areas of principal risk and the Groups risk management accountability matrix.
Responsibilities The Risk Committee advises the board on the Groups overall risk appetite, reviews and approves the Groups risk management strategy, advises the Audit Committee and the board on risk exposures and reviews the level of risk within the Group and assesses the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems.
The committees composition ensures that a broad set of skills and experience comes together to look at how the Group manages risk in the business.
The Risk Committee also considers certain major contracts which require board approval due to their size or level of risk.
Further details can be found in the committees terms of reference available at www.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 71
