52 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Governance Governance review Effective compliance and strong governance The appointment of Peter Truscott as Chief Executive on 1 October 2015 and the transition to a Non-executive Chairman role by Greg Fitzgerald on 1 January 2016 have seen the Group begin its return to full compliance with corporate governance best practice, following the significant Board changes of the previous year.
In addition, new Board members have quickly established themselves, with the Board as a whole leading the continuation of the existing strategy to 2018, and providing an effective sounding board for, and challenge to, the development of the strategy beyond that date.
The Group has made good progress, including enhancing targets where appropriate, and will continue its progression towards achievement of its 2018 strategy objectives as well as considering I am pleased to report on the effective the longer term aims.
compliance and high standards that have been Board and Executive Board composition maintained across the Group.
This year, after Biographical summaries for each of the directors as at 30 June 2016, their respective Committee responsibilities and their external a short interim period, the Group reverted to directorships are set out on pages 50 and 51. a Non-executive Chairman and separate Chief All directors continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, Executive leadership structure.
and will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM in November 2016 save as described below.
Greg Fitzgerald Chairman Peter Truscott was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 October 2015 while Ken Gillespie has indicated his intention to retire as Chief Operating Officer in 2017 and stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2016.
As announced on 12 July 2016, Greg Fitzgerald has said that he will step down from the Board at the AGM on 11 November 2016.
Peter Ventress, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, will, as previously announced, become Chairman on Greg Fitzgerald stepping down.
There have been no other changes to the Board, either during or since the end of the financial year.
With effect from 6 September 2016, Andrew Hammond Divisional Chairman West for Linden Homes, Tom Nicholson Divisional Chairman East for Linden Homes, and Stephen Teagle Chief Executive, Partnerships and Regeneration joined the Executive Board.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 53 Chairman and Chief Executive Non-executive directors The duties of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly specified Other than the changes referenced, the roles and responsibilities to ensure proper division of responsibilities and balance of power.
of each of the non-executive directors, which are detailed in their The key responsibilities of the Chairman include leadership of and individual letters of appointment, have not changed from the previous communication with the Board, value setting, shareholder liaison, financial year.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection governance and performance evaluation and appraisal.
The key on request at the Companys registered office and will be available responsibilities of the Chief Executive include developing Group immediately prior to the AGM.
strategy, operational performance and executive management, Diversity including chairing the Groups Executive Board.
In 2013 the Board stated its commitment to addressing the There was a similar division of responsibility in place during the period expectations of the Davies Report Women on Boards where in which the Group had an Executive Chairman, with the Deputy appropriate and possible, and women hold 25% of Board positions Chairman proving the independent check and balance to the as at the date of this report.
Furthermore, it is anticipated that the executive leadership.
During that time, the Executive Chairman held gender ratio may improve in subsequent years following the planned responsibility for strategy, business performance and management retirement of Greg Fitzgerald and future Board refreshes.
of the Group, while the Deputy Chairman held responsibility for The Nomination Committee considers a diverse range of candidates, governance, the performance of the Board and for monitoring the including those from backgrounds not currently represented at Board effectiveness of the Executive Chairman.
Copies of the respective role level, for positions as and when they become available, while basing descriptions of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman recruitment decisions on merit.
are available on the Groups website.
Further diversity disclosures can be found in the Strategic Report Senior Independent Director on page 46.
Peter Ventress was the Groups Senior Independent Director, having held the post throughout the year, and since his appointment to the Board on 30 April 2015.
The Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders throughout the year, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
He was not contacted in that capacity by shareholders during the year.
On Greg Fitzgerald assuming the role of Non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2016, major shareholders were reminded that the Chairman and or the Deputy Chairman were available to meet to discuss any matters.
54 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Governance review continued The table below summarises the main governance challenges faced by the Group during the year, their implications, mitigating actions and the results thereof, together with other material governance initiatives undertaken.
GOVERNANCE ACTION EXPLANATION GOVERNANCE IMPLICATIONS While Greg Fitzgerald relinquished his executive The UK Corporate Governance Code Board composition responsibilities on 1 January 2016, his former role recommends that the roles of Chairman and and succession: as Chief Executive and Executive Chairman have Chief Executive should not be exercised by governance and independence implications.
the same individual, that a Chief Executive implications of an should not go on to chair the same company, Executive Chairman and that a Chairman should be independent on appointment, unless the company explains why these principles should not apply.
The Group is now enacting the findings of the Succession planning at Board level is now Succession planning: review and refresh of the talent mapping and replicated at Executive Board and divisional Executive Board and succession planning process commenced in board levels, ensuring talent and potential are the previous year, ensuring succession planning nurtured and development needs are met, divisional board level is an evolving and dynamic process, rather than enabling quality internal candidates to be a static annual compliance exercise.
available to progress to Executive Board and main Board level positions, and ensuring a progressive refreshing of those boards.
An effective induction programme is vital to The UK Governance Code states that new Board induction Peter Truscott, an external candidate, to support directors are to receive a full, formal and tailored Full, formal and him in his role as CEO leading the Group.
induction on joining the Board.
As part of this, directors should avail themselves of opportunities tailored induction to meet major shareholders.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 55 Board: attendance All meetings were led by the Chairman, including a specific performance assessment day at which individual appraisals were completed.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary was in attendance.
The Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director separately led a meeting of the non-executive directors to assess the performance of the Chairman, without him present.
A summary of Board and Committee attendance appears on the next page.
Board: remit MITIGATING ACTIONS AND RESULT There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for authorisation by the Board, the specifics of which have not materially changed from Greg Fitzgeralds tenure was for a limited transition those disclosed in previous years.
The Board held its annual strategy period while the new CEO was recruited and awayday in October 2015 where it reviewed progress against the established in post.
During that time, the Deputy Group business plan to 2018: was updated on market conditions Chairman assumed responsibility for performance and investor expectations, and succession planning initiatives of the Board.
Greg Fitzgerald has announced that undertaken during the year: and where it assessed the impact of he will step down as Chairman at the 2016 AGM.
the Miller Construction and Shepherd Homes acquisitions after 12 Greg Fitzgerald is not considered independent, and six months respectively.
A session was also dedicated to the therefore, the number of Board Committees on initial thoughts of the new Chief Executive.
which he may sit or chair is limited.
There are, The Board continues to benefit from its established reporting however, sufficient independent non-executive mechanisms, which are designed to ensure crucial management and directors to ensure the size and composition of project-specific information, and significant Group-wide developments the Committees are appropriate and comply are reported quickly and accurately, and facilitate prompt approval of with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate further actions.
Throughout the year the Board also received regular Governance Code.
Group, divisional and business unit-specific presentations, covering all aspects of the Groups operations.
Board: information, advice, insurance and indemnity Well-established Board procedures for the timely provision of Each executive director and senior manager information in advance of all Board and Committee meetings, is directly responsible for their own succession and for the provision of independent professional advice, have plans and the development plans of their remained in operation throughout the financial year.
A report on progress and changes All directors have access to the advice and services of the General to their plans is made to the main Board and Counsel and Company Secretary.
No director sought independent Nomination Committee.
advice during the financial year.
The Group maintains appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Insurance on behalf of, and provides individual indemnities to, the directors, and General Counsel and Company Secretary, Building on the successful induction programmes which complies with the provisions of Section 234 of the delivered to new non-executive directors during Companies Act 2006. the previous financial year, a comprehensive Board evaluation: 2015 update and 2016 external evaluation programme was developed for Peter Truscott, As reported in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements, which included a three-month handover period the 2015 Board evaluation, which was performed internally using with the Executive Chairman, before Greg specialist performance evaluation software, focused on Board Fitzgerald relinquished his executive responsibilities.
mechanics and effectiveness: Group performance and delivery of the enhanced strategy: and governance and sustainability.
The findings were presented to the May 2015 Board meeting, from which the following substantial action points were developed and agreed at the September 2015 meeting: 5 Board dinners: occasional pre-meeting dinners have been scheduled to conduct management presentations and provide Board exposure to the next tier of management, especially when held in conjunction with site visits.
5 Succession planning: the Board as a whole has continued to receive six-monthly updates on the refreshed succession planning process as reported in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements as well as the succession plans themselves.
56 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Governance review continued As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group meeting practicalities.
The interviews focused on Board composition undertook an externally facilitated performance evaluation in 2016. and experience, succession planning, dynamics and relationships, The planning process began several months ahead of the evaluation strategy, risks and quality of information.
with the General Counsel and Company Secretary researching Individual performance evaluations focused on the effectiveness of evaluation service providers and seeking recommendations from the contributions made by directors.
Consideration was given to Board members, especially the non-executive directors.
From this list the aggregate time commitments of the non-executive directors.
a shortlist of three firms was developed, which were then interviewed The Board is satisfied that each director is committed to his or her role.
by the Chairman and General Counsel and Company Secretary, The findings and recommendations were presented to, and approved resulting in the appointment of Independent Audit.
There is no other by, the Board in May 2016, with recommendations being addressed connection between Independent Audit and the Group.
over the forthcoming financial year.
The 2016 evaluation was conducted by way of interviews with each Overall, the external evaluation confirmed that the Board is operating Board member, Executive Board members and the General Counsel effectively and has the appropriate balance of skills and experience and Company Secretary preceded by a review of Board packs and to draw on, with recommendations being made, among other matters, other materials and observing proceedings at a Board meeting.
in relation to transitioning of leaving directors, continuing to have The evaluation as a whole looked at Board processes, Board ongoing discussions on long-term strategy and succession planning, dynamics, and the Groups governance structures, as well as and continuing to embed culture and ethics within the Group.
2015 16 Board and Committee attendance table Executive Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings scheduled attended Board Board Committee Committee Committee 1 Greg Fitzgerald Chairman 8 5 by invitation 2 by invitation Peter Ventress Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 8 n a 3 2 4 Andrew Jenner Non-executive Director 8 n a 3 2 4 Ishbel Macpherson Non-executive Director 8 n a 3 2 4 2 Terry Miller Non-executive Director 7 n a 3 2 4 Gavin Slark Non-executive Director 8 n a 3 2 4 3 Peter Truscott Chief Executive 6 8 by invitation by invitation by invitation 4 Ken Gillespie Chief Operating Officer 8 11 n a n a n a Graham Prothero Finance Director 8 11 by invitation n a n a Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary 7 9 2 2 3 1 Greg Fitzgerald ceased to be Executive Chairman on 31 December 2015 and, accordingly, ceased to be a member of or to attend Executive Board meetings on this date.
2 Terry Miller attended the AGM by telephone but was unable to attend the Board meeting prior to the AGM due to a prior family commitment.
3 Peter Truscott was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015.
4 Ken Gillespie was unable to attend one meeting for its full duration due to an urgent operational matter and participated in part by telephone.
2015 16 Board focus In addition to the standing items discussed at each Board meeting, which include health, safety and sustainability performance, Group risk register reviews, divisional updates, Group financial performance and institutional investor issues and feedback, the calendar of 2015 16 Board activities and areas of focus were as follows: July September October November December February April May 2015 2016 Approval of Major contracts Strategy meeting AGM 20162019 Presentation Site visit Presentation 2015 16 and compliance progress business plan and review St Clements, Investments Cyber security Group budget review against the Group IT and Oracle, London and facilities Executive business plan to Procurement, HR Linden Homes management Final salary Presentation Full year results Chairmans 2018, market pension scheme risk review and Annual committee Half year results Presentations Outline strategy conditions and buy-in Report memberships Linden Homes, beyond 2018 investor Interim Institutional following Partnerships, expectations, 2015 Board governance New CEO feedback Results of assumption of Affordable succession evaluation action review induction and following CEO  Housing & planning and points update transitional appointment and facilitated Board role Regeneration post-acquisition Review of and 2016 external arrangements assumption of performance and integration insurance evaluation Implementation Non-executive EU referendum evaluation analysis renewals Annual corporate planning of findings of Chairman role governance Succession major contracts Broker Major contracts review planning and compliance presentation and compliance review HSBC and 2015 Board review update Peel Hunt evaluation feedback Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 57 Executive Board report Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Executive Board.
Membership of the Executive Board is detailed on pages 50 and 51.
The minutes of Executive Board meetings are included as part The Group HR Director also attends each meeting of the Executive of the Group Board pack.
From 6 September 2016, Stephen Teagle, Chief Executive The Executive Board meets on a monthly basis and additional of Partnerships and Regeneration: Tom Nicholson, Linden Homes meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise Divisional Chairman East, and Andrew Hammond, Linden Homes, specific operational or project matters.
Following the appointment Divisional Chairman West, joined the Executive Board.
Executive of Peter Truscott and the assumption of a non-executive role by management is the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
He chairs the Greg Fitzgerald, the Executive Board has increased its focus on Executive Board, which in turn takes responsibility for the operational considering long-term strategic issues and matters of Group-wide management of the Group under terms of reference delegated by policy.
The meeting agenda has been reorganised to this effect, the main Board.
From October 2014 to December 2015, the Executive with health, safety and sustainability as the first agenda item at every Board was chaired by the Executive Chairman.
The Executive Board meeting, which highlights the importance of such matters to the also has further delegated responsibility for making recommendations Group.
Executive responsibility for operational matters of each to the main Board on all items included in the formal schedule of business has been devolved to a greater extent to the executive matters reserved for main Board authorisation.
The Executive Board boards of each business, which are also held on a monthly basis, receives and considers regular performance and operational reports in the preceding week to the Executive Board.
and presentations from divisional management.
The Assistant Group governance structure plc Board Directors: 9 Meetings annually: 8 Executive Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Members: 5 Directors: 5 Directors: 6 Directors: 5 Meetings annually: 11 Meetings annually: 3 Meetings annually: 2 Meetings annually: 4 Linden Homes Partnerships and Construction and Executive Board Regeneration Investments Members: 8 Executive Board Divisional Board Meetings annually: 11 Members: 8 Members: 8 Meetings annually: 12 Meetings annually: 11 Partnerships and Building North & Risk Committee Regeneration Scotland Board Members: 14 Divisional Board Members: 8 Meetings annually: 4 Members: 11 Meetings annually: 8 Meetings annually: 8 Building Midlands & Other Group and South Board functional committees Members: 6 and forums Meetings annually: 8 Infrastructure Board Members: 9 Meetings annually: 11 Investments Board Members: 6 Meetings annually: 8 As at 30 June 2016 58 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Governance review continued Audit Committee Report Committee Chairs annual statement The Committee has continued to monitor and review the results, risk management and internal control framework of the Group, as it continues to grow each of its businesses.
This included particular emphasis on those aspects of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code that were effective for the first time during the financial year.
The Committee considers that the 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable in terms of the form and content of the strategic, governance and financial information presented therein.
The Group has evolved the format of the Annual Report and Financial Statements over recent financial years and this The Audit Committee has primarily focused its Annual Report represents an acceleration of that process as we move towards the concept of Integrated Reporting.
attention on the results of internal and external Peter Ventress and Gavin Slark have established themselves as audits and maintaining appropriate processes valuable members of the Committee, having joined us shortly to ensure the Annual Report is fair, balanced before the beginning of this reporting period.
We continue to work and understandable, together with assessing well with the  PwC audit team.
and implementing the requirements of the Audit Committee: composition and attendance 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Membership of the Audit Committee is detailed on pages 50 and 51.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director attend all Committee meetings by invitation, together with the Director Andrew Jenner of Risk & Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller.
The Audit Committee Chair Committee Chair has a strong financial background and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants which satisfies the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that As disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, no significant the Committees membership has recent and relevant financial non-audit related services were provided by the incumbent experience.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary external auditor, PwC during the financial year, although the Group or his nominee act as secretary to the Committee.
did receive non-audit-related advice and services covering general Audit Committee: remit and activities corporate matters.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, this number being Policies and review mechanisms governing the provision of deemed appropriate to the Audit Committees role and responsibilities.
material non-audit services, and safeguarding the objectivity and The Committees delegated authorities and calendar of prioritised independence of the external auditor, remained in force throughout work have not changed substantially from those disclosed in previous the financial year.
The policy specifies the types of non-audit services years.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: delegated for which the use of the external auditor is pre-approved ie approval responsibility from the Board for financial reporting: monitoring external has been given in advance as a matter of policy : the services for audit, internal audit, risk and controls: and reviewing instances of which specific approval from the Audit Committee is required before whistleblowing.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available the auditor is contracted: and the services from which the external on the Groups website.
In respect of pre-approved services, a financial The authorities and calendar of work remain in line with the threshold is in place, applicable to individual and aggregated services requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Furthermore, should the total value of non-audit service meeting, Committee members take time, in the absence of executive engagements exceed a defined percentage of the total Group directors, to review separately and discuss any issues meriting their audit fee for the previous financial period, the Audit Committee attention.
The adjacent table summarises the key activities during shall consider and give specific prior approval for any subsequent the financial year.
The Committee also continues to meet with internal and external Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit teams, without executive management present.
audit process which includes discussing feedback from the members of the Committee and key senior management within the Group.
During the financial year, the risk and internal audit team focused The Committee is satisfied that PwC is fully independent and on delivering its agreed calendar of audit reviews, under its rolling accordingly has recommended to the Board that a resolution to three-year internal audit plan, and also on providing commercial and re-appoint PwC is proposed at the 2016 AGM.
PwC has been risk management support across the Group at the request of the an auditor of the Group since its initial appointment in 2001 and Committee, the Executive Board and senior management.
retained this appointment following a competitive tender completed During the year, the Committee considered the changes to the in 2014.
The PwC team under its current partner, Jonathan Hook, UK Corporate Governance Code and the introduction of the viability is considered by the Committee to have the appropriate balance of statement, as part of its review of risk and controls.
The wording of the involvement with and knowledge of the Group and its operations, viability statement and the period chosen was extensively discussed as well as independence and merit.
and agreed by the Committee.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 59 The Financial Reporting Council FRC has amended the UK Calendar of 2015 16 Committee activities and areas Corporate Governance Code to require audit tendering every of focus 10 years on a comply or explain basis for FTSE 350 companies.
On 26 September 2014, the Competition Commission, now the Month Activity or area of focus Competition Markets Authority, published its final Order on September 5 Committee review of 2014 15 full year results, mandatory audit tendering for FTSE 350 companies.
2015 including external auditor presentation, going concern review and approval of fair, balanced This Order came into effect on 1 January 2015 and applies to financial and understandable process years beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and therefore applies to the year which is subject to this Annual Report.
The Order confirms 5 Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports that FTSE 350 companies will need to undertake a tendering process 5 Review of 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of their statutory audit services at least every 10 years.
5 IFRS 15 revenue recognition update Furthermore, if a company has not completed a tendering February 5 Committee review of 2015 16 half year results, appointment process of statutory auditors for five consecutive financial 2016 including external auditor presentation, going years, the Order requires the Audit Committee of such a company concern review and approval of fair, balanced to state in its annual report when the company intends to conduct and understandable process the tender and why such proposed date is in the best interests of the company and such statement must be repeated in each subsequent 5 Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports report until a competitive tender is conducted.
5 Corporate governance and financial The requirement for conducting mandatory audit tenders every reporting update 10 years is subject to transitional arrangements set out in the Order May 5 Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports and, accordingly, this requirement does not apply to PwCs proposed 2016 5 Corporate governance and financial re-appointment as auditor which will be proposed to the shareholders reporting update, with particular focus at the 2016 AGM.
PwC was re-appointed as auditor following on the viability statement a competitive tender in 2014.
5 Approval of external audit plan The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Groups financial 5 Approval of internal audit plan statements and all formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
This included an assessment of each critical accounting policy, as set out in note 1, as well as review and debate over the following areas of significance: 5 Contract revenue and provisions: in conjunction with the annual audit, the Committee reviewed a paper setting out key judgments in respect of revenue recognition and contract provisions, in relation to individually significant long-term construction contracts.
5 Going concern: the Committee assessed the available bank facilities, and the associated covenants and sensitivities.
The related paper also considered other commercial and economic risks to the Groups going concern status.
The Committee reported to the Board on its findings.
5 Goodwill impairment review: during the year, the Committee considered the judgments made in relation to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model input used, as well as the sensitivities used by management and the related disclosures.
5 Accounting policy for land: the Committee assessed the appropriateness of the accounting policy for land and the associated disclosures in note 1 to the financial statements.
5 Disclosure of significant transactions and non-GAAP accounting measures.
60 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Governance review continued Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee: composition and attendance Membership of the Nomination Committee is detailed on pages 50 and 51.
Greg Fitzgerald joined the Committee with effect from 1 January 2016.
The Committee was chaired by Terry Miller throughout the year.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Nomination Committee: remit The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Groups website.
The authorities delegated to the Committee by the Board comprise, among other matters: 5 reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: The Committee has been overseeing the 5 evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience strengthened and refreshed succession of the Board, including the impact of new appointments: planning process, as well as the succession 5 overseeing and recommending the recruitment of any plans themselves.
new directors: Terry Miller 5 ensuring appointments are appropriately made against objective Nomination Committee Chair criteria: and 5 keeping the leadership and succession requirements of the Group under active review.
The principal task of the Committee during the year has been the monitoring and oversight of the previously agreed succession planning process, as well as the succession plans themselves.
Towards the end of the previous year, the Groups executive management comprehensively strengthened and refreshed the succession planning process, developing a common assessment framework for the main Board, Executive Board and divisional board levels.
Recognising that succession planning over these senior levels within the Company is not static, the Committee has been receiving regular updates on both the ongoing succession planning and talent mapping process, together with the individuals identified, and any development requirements necessary to ensure effective succession.
Succession planning and leadership requirements, including actions being taken to identify replacements for senior management roles, will continue to be the subject of direct focus and engagement by the Committee.
The Committee is also committed to embedding diversity and inclusion at Board level and generally throughout the Group.
The Committee has also begun the process of reviewing the composition of the Board, and overseeing plans for recruitment of a new non-executive director, in light of the previously announced retirement of the Chairman and succession of the current Deputy Chairman to that role in November 2016 and the end of the term for the Chair of the Audit Committee in 2017.
Additionally, while negotiations concerning their appointment to the Board and Executive Board were concluded in the previous financial year, the Committee oversaw the inductions of both Peter Truscott and Bill Hocking, building on the successful induction programme given to non-executive director appointments in the previous year.
At the year end, the Committee comprised a majority of independent non-executive directors, complying with provision B.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
External consultants, The Zygos Partnership Zygos and Norman Broadbent plc Norman Broadbent, who advised on Board appointments in the year.
There is no other connection between Zygos and the Group or Norman Broadbent and the Group.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 61 There were no significant internal control failings or weaknesses Other governance matters during the year.
Any matters of non-compliance with the provisions The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk of the Group Corporate and Finance Manuals have been rectified management policies, procedures and training programmes, either during the financial year or by the date of this Annual Report.
all of which address obligations arising under the relevant legislation.
A separate programme of 18 internal audits was also completed The Group Corporate and Finance Manuals, which summarise the across the Groups operations and progress checks were completed policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the central against previous recommendations.
functions and divisions operate, were subject to ongoing update Compliance statement and refresh during the financial year.
The Group believes that the highest standards of corporate Shareholder relations governance are integral to the delivery of its strategy, providing The Company continues to prioritise maintaining effective the means by which the Board may manage the expectations relationships with all its shareholders and seeks to engage with of stakeholders to optimise sustainable performance.
The Board, and in particular the Chief Executive The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code, is the and Finance Director, continue to organise meetings with existing governance code to which the Group is subject, and which sets and prospective institutional shareholders.
The Chairman also out principles relating to the good governance of companies.
attended institutional shareholder meetings, especially during The Code is available at www.
his tenure as Executive Chairman.
As a member of the FTSE 250, Galliford Try has committed to The Board as a whole continues to engage actively with institutional complying with the provisions of the Code and, in doing so, seeks shareholders in line with the UK Stewardship Code, whether on both to support and foster the highest standards of corporate key matters of specific relevance to the Group and its operations or governance.
Throughout the year, the Group has fully complied general market themes, and specific reports regarding shareholder with the requirements of the Code, with the exception of provisions views are provided to the Board for analysis and discussion.
2.1 as regards to combining temporarily the roles of Chairman and Separately, the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive Chief Executive and A.
3.1 as regards to independence of Chairman directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders and on appointment.
In these areas of non-compliance, the temporary address any significant concerns stakeholders may have.
combination of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive was The Groups AGM, held in November each year, continues to be resolved by 31 December 2015 when Greg Fitzgerald became a popular means for private shareholders to receive updates on Group Non-executive Chairman following the arrival of Peter Truscott as performance, including presentations from Board members and Chief Executive on 1 October 2015.
In respect of the independence opinions on progress.
All directors of the Company were in attendance on appointment of the Chairman, Greg Fitzgerald has announced his in person or by phone at the 2015 AGM.
All arrangements for the retirement at the 2016 AGM.
Accordingly, the directors recognise that meeting including notice period and voting arrangements, including the situation is for a specific and limited time period, and consider that the poll voting procedure, followed the requirements of the UK this temporary deviation from full compliance with the Code is in the Corporate Governance Code and related best practice.
best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls The Group remains compliant with the UK Listing Authoritys The governance review commencing on page 52 details the specific Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6 and related actions undertaken by the Group during the financial year, including information can be found in the Directors Report on pages 75 to 77. those with a risk management focus.
The Boards approach to risk For and on behalf of the Board and internal audit, including its systems in relation to the preparation of consolidated accounts, and the material controls of the Groups Kevin Corbett established internal control framework are disclosed in the principal General Counsel and Company Secretary risks section on pages 18 to 21.
The Groups governance reporting structure shown on page 57 clarifies the effective Group, business and operational board structures upon which the delegated authorities matrices and Corporate and Finance Manuals are overlaid, and reflects changes made in 2014.
Effective from 1 July 2015, a further phase of a Group simplification project has effectively aligned the legal ownership structure of the Group with its operating and reporting structure, facilitating reporting and management.
During the financial year, the Group implemented the findings of a substantial external compliance review of its policies and procedures relating to commercial operations and major projects, which was undertaken in the prior year.
This included the launch of a substantially reinvigorated Code of Conduct.
As well as rolling out the Code of Conduct throughout the Group, copies were sent to supply chain partners and joint venture partners, and are available on the Groups website.
