Governance Audit Committee report Mr David Pirouet FCA Audit Committee Chairman Summary Composition Revised versions of the UK Code and At 30 September 2016, the Audit the AIC Code and Guide were Committee comprised three of the published in April 2016 and June 2016 Companys Directors including the respectively with the amended Chairman, Mr Pirouet, who is a I am pleased to provisions having a specific impact on Chartered Accountant and a former present the Audit Audit Committee reporting.
The Board audit partner, Mr Reeves CBE and has adopted the provisions set out in Mr Gray who was appointed to the Committee report the revised UK Code and the AIC Code.
committee on 1 October 2015. for the year ended Mr Spears stepped down from the The Audit Committee operates within committee at the conclusion of 30 September 2016. clearly defined terms of reference, a the Board meeting held on copy of which is available on request 17 December 2015. from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference require the Audit The Board considers that the Committee to monitor the Companys independence, experience and financial reporting, internal controls knowledge of each of the Audit and risk management and external Committee members is sufficient for audit process.
In October 2016, the discharging its responsibilities and in committee reviewed and recommended particular taking account of the updates to its terms of reference to financial, audit, banking and the Board.
infrastructure experience of the members of the committee.
The Audit The Audit Committee is responsible Committee meets at least twice a year.
for making recommendations to the Board in respect of appointment, The Audit Committee has reviewed reappointment, and remuneration of and evaluated its own performance as the Auditor and the Auditors plan for part of the Boards annual evaluation the year.
process, explained in the Nomination Committee report on page 45.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  42 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial reporting In addition to the above matters, the Significant issues considered Audit Committees work was focused The Audit Committee considered the After discussions with both the on the following areas: requirements of the UK Companies Investment Adviser and the external Act 2006 Strategic Report and Auditor, the Audit Committee reviewing the effectiveness of the Directors Report Regulation 2013 determined that the key risk of internal control environment of the with which it is complying voluntarily, material misstatement of the Company and the Companys in line with best practice reporting.
Companys financial statements compliance with its regulatory The Audit Committee specifically related to the valuation of investments.
requirements: reviewed the annual report and Valuation of investments reviewing and recommending to the financial statements to conclude As outlined in note 19, the total Board significant accounting whether the financial reporting is fair, carrying value of financial assets at matters and accounting disclosures balanced, understandable, fair value at 30 September 2016 was in the half yearly and annual comprehensive and consistent with: 699.7 million 2015: 657.7 million.
financial statements of the i prior year reporting: and Market quotations are not available for Company including matters of these financial assets such that their judgement in relation to valuation: ii how the Board assesses the valuation is undertaken using a performance of the Companys overseeing the Companys relations discounted cash flow methodology.
business during the financial year, with its Auditor including assessing This requires a series of material as required for companies with the conduct and effectiveness of the judgements to be made as further a Premium Listing under the audit process and the Auditors explained in note 19.
independence and objectivity, The Audit Committee discussed the recommending the Auditors As part of this review, the Audit valuation process and methodology reappointment and approving the Committee considered if the annual with the Investment Adviser in May, Auditors fees: and report and financial statements July, September and October 2016 as provided the information necessary to reviewing the Companys part of the review of the interim and shareholders to assess the Companys compliance with its regulatory annual report.
The Valuation Agent performance, strategy and business obligations in Jersey.
carries out a valuation quarterly up model and reviewed the description The Auditor is invited to attend the until 1 April 2016, this was carried out of the Companys key performance Audit Committee meeting at which the monthly and provides a detailed indicators.
Annual report is considered and at valuation report to the Company.
The Audit Committee presented its which they have the opportunity to In order to provide further assurance conclusions to the Board and the meet with the Audit Committee regarding the basis of valuation, the Board concluded that it considered the without representatives of the Company meets with the Valuation annual report and financial Investment Adviser being present.
Agent at least once a year to discuss statements, taken as a whole, to be The Audit Committee has direct this as well as reviewing the formal fair, balanced and understandable and access to the external Auditor and to reports from the Valuation Agent on a provides the information necessary for the key senior staff of the Investment regular basis.
the shareholders to assess the Adviser and reports its findings and Companys performance, business In August 2016, the Audit Committee recommendations to the Board which model and strategy.
met with the Auditor and reviewed retains the ultimate responsibility for and agreed the Auditors audit plan.
the financial statements of the The Audit Committee also discussed Company.
All recommendations were the conclusion of the audit of the accepted by the Board.
financial statements in December 2016 and in particular, discussed the audit approach and conclusion on the valuation of investments.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  43 Governance Audit Committee report continued Valuation of investments continued The Audit Committee discussed the During the year, the Company was material estimates and judgements notified that the FRCs Audit Quality The discount rates adopted to and also compared this to feedback Review Team AQRT would carry out determine the valuation are selected from the Investment Adviser.
The Audit a review of the Companys previous and recommended by the Valuation Committee was satisfied that the Auditor EYs working papers in relation Agent.
The discount rate is applied to range of discount rates were to their audit of the Companys the expected future cash flows for appropriate for the valuation carried financial statements for the year each investments financial forecasts out by the Valuation Agent.
Each year, derived, adopting the assumptions the AQRT routinely selects a number explained above, to arrive at a The Auditor explained the results of of audits carried out by the large audit valuation discounted cash flow their audit and that on the basis of firms, including EY, with a view to valuation.
The resulting valuation is their audit work there were no inspecting the audits of all FTSE 350 sensitive to the discount rate selected.
adjustments proposed that were companies over a five year cycle.
The The Valuation Agent is experienced material in the context of the financial selection of EYs audit of the Company and active in the area of valuing these statements as a whole.
for the year ended 30 September 2015 investments and adopts discount rates External audit was part of this routine inspection reflecting their current and extensive Audit fees for the year amounted programme in the 2015 16 cycle.
to 52,000 2015: 55,000 and audit The Company has received a copy of The discount rate assumptions and related nonaudit fees amounting to the AQRTs report following this review the sensitivity of the valuation of the 15,000 2015: 37,000. and their findings which related to investments to this discount rate are the audit process.
The actions disclosed in note 19.
As explained in last years annual required have been discussed with the report, following an audit tender In particular, the Audit Committee Companys former Auditor EY and the process in September 2015 and a considered in detail the reductions of Companys new Auditor, KPMG in recommendation put to the Annual the discount rate applied to certain August 2016.
General Meeting on 12 February 2016, assets during the year.
The Valuation KPMG was appointed as the Auditor.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Agent explained this was principally as Mr Steven Stormonth is the Executive effectiveness of the Audit process a consequence of increased Director from KPMG responsible for during the year, considering competition in the secondary market the audit.
performance, objectivity, independence for infrastructure and renewable and relevant experience with KPMG assets, which had been seen during Following the Companys entry into the during the year.
Following this review, bidding and general market activity.
FTSE 250 index, the Board concluded the Audit Committee has recommended This was also corroborated by the that it would be in the best interests of the reappointment of KPMG as the Investment Adviser.
The Audit the Company to ask the Auditor to Companys Auditor at the Annual Committee also considered in detail review the Companys half year General Meeting.
the revised discount rates applied to accounts from 31 March 2016 the two loans subject to impairment.
In January 2016, the Board agreed to adopt a policy whereby the Auditor would not be requested to perform any nonaudit services other Mr David Pirouet FCA than the halfyear review.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 December 2016 GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  44
