Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee comprises The Company engaged an independent Based on the outcome of the Board Mr Ian Reeves CBE, Mr Clive Spears external search consultant, Thomas & performance evaluation process, the and Mr David Pirouet.
The function of Dessain to assist with the appointment Nomination Committee agreed to this committee is to consider of Ms Chapman and Mr Gray who recommend the reappointment of Ian appointments to the Board and its were appointed to the Board on Reeves CBE as Chairman at the individual committees in the context of 1 October 2015.
The committee Annual General Meeting.
The the requirements of the Company and considered the desired expertise and committee believes that Mr Reeves to make recommendations to the background to complement the skills has continued to make valuable Board with regard to any changes to already on the Board.
The committee contributions to the Company and has maintain a balanced and effective considered a shortlist of potential exercised his judgement and Board.
The Nomination Committee is candidates provided by Thomas & expressed his opinions in an also obliged to consider succession Dessain and interviews were then held independent manner.
Each of the planning for Directors with particular leading to the new appointments.
Directors will also be offering attention paid to the challenges and themselves for reelection at the The Nomination Committee met in opportunities facing the Company.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting October 2016 to review the results of Board diversity, including gender, is on 10 February 2017. the performance evaluation of the taken into account when evaluating Board.
The evaluation process involved In October 2016, the committee the skills, knowledge and experience an analysis of the Chairmans reviewed and recommended to the desirable to fill vacancies on the Board performance, Board performance and Board updates to its terms of as and when they arise.
The that of its committees and individual reference.
A copy is available upon committee would like to emphasise Directors.
The Deputy Chairman also request from the Company Secretary.
that all appointments to the Board are met with the Chairman to discuss the based on merit with the most Directors comments on the appropriate candidate, who is the best Chairmans performance evaluation.
fit for the Company, being nominated The results of the evaluation process Mr Ian Reeves CBE for appointment.
The committee were reported to, and discussed by, Chairman of the Nomination Committee believes the Directors provide, the Nomination Committee and 13 December 2016 individually and collectively, the subsequently by the Board.
The necessary breadth of skills and evaluation considered the overall experience to manage the Company.
composition of the Board including As Ian Reeves CBE is Chairman of the plans for succession over time and the Nomination Committee and the delivery of Directors performance Company, he will not chair at any appraisals.
At this meeting, the meeting when dealing with the committee noted that each of the appointment of a successor to the Directors had expressed an intention Companys chairmanship.
to continue in office for the foreseeable future.
The committee also agreed that Mr Spears would continue to assume the role of Deputy Chairman in the event of Mr Reeves unavailability.
