Governance Corporate governance statement Mr Ian Reeves CBE Chairman Corporate Governance Code Statement of compliance with the AIC Code and Guide The Disclosure Rules of the UKLA require certain listed companies to The Board recognises the importance disclose how they have applied the of a strong corporate governance principles and complied with the culture that meets the requirements I am pleased provisions of the Corporate of the Listing Rules of the UKLA.
to present the Governance Code to which the issuer The Board has put in place a is subject.
The Board has considered framework for corporate governance Companys corporate the principles and recommendations which it believes is appropriate for governance statement of the AIC Code.
The AIC Code, as the Company.
All Directors contribute explained by the AIC Guide, addresses to Board discussions and debates.
for the year ended all the principles set out in the UK The Board believes in providing as 30 September 2016.
Code issued by the FRC, as well as much transparency for shareholders setting out additional principles and as is reasonably possible.
It should be recommendations on issues that are noted that most of the Companys of specific relevance to the Company.
daytoday responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the The FRC has confirmed that AIC Company has no employees and the member companies who report Directors are nonexecutive.
against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide will be meeting their The Company has complied with the obligations in relation to the UK Code recommendations of the AIC Code and and the associated disclosure the relevant provisions of the UK Code, requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
except as set out below: The Board considers that reporting the role of the Chief Executive: for against the principles and the reasons set out in the AIC recommendations of the AIC Code, Guide, and as explained in the UK and by reference to the AIC Guide, Code, the Board considers that the will provide better information to post of Chief Executive is not shareholders.
A copy of the AIC Code relevant for the Company, being and the AIC guide can be viewed at an externally managed www.
investment company: GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  36 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements the appointment of a Senior For the reasons set out in the AIC was attended by all Directors.
The Independent Director: the Code, the Board considers that these discussions focused on general Nomination Committee has provisions are not relevant to the market conditions and future discussed whether it would be in position of the Company, being an investment opportunities for the best interests of the Company externally managed investment the Company.
to recommend to the Board the company.
The Company has therefore In order to enable the Directors to appointment of a Senior not reported further in respect of discharge their responsibilities Independent Director and have these provisions.
effectively, they have full and timely agreed that at the present time the The Boards responsibilities access to all relevant information.
Board has an appropriate balance and processes Matters reserved for the Board of skills and experience and as The Board is responsible to The Board has approved a formal such, an appointment is not shareholders for the overall schedule of matters reserved for considered necessary.
However, the management of the Company, and the Board.
Nomination Committee has agreed may exercise all the powers of the to keep the matter under The schedule is available upon request Company subject to the relevant regular review: from the Company Secretary.
statutes, the Companys Articles of Executive Directors remuneration: Association and any directions given by Composition of the Board as the Board has no executive special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board consists of six Directors, Directors, it is not required to The Articles of Association empower all of whom are nonexecutive and comply with the principles of the the Board to offer, allot, grant options are considered to be independent.
AIC Code in respect of executive over or otherwise deal with or dispose Each of the Directors has signed Directors remuneration and does of the Companys shares as the Board letters of appointment which set out not have a Remuneration may decide.
The Law authorises the the terms and conditions of their Committee.
A full Remuneration Company to make market purchases appointment.
These letters are Report is included on pages 46 of its own shares if the purchase has available for inspection at the to 48: first been authorised by a resolution of Companys registered office.
Internal Audit function: the No Director has any contract or Company delegates the majority of At the Annual General Meeting on arrangement in place between its operations to third parties and 12 February 2016, the shareholders themselves and the Company.
The majority of renewed the Boards authority to allot details as to the terms of appointment these third parties have their own ordinary shares and to repurchase of the Directors are set out in the internal audit function and the ordinary shares on behalf of the remuneration report on pages Board has therefore determined Company subject to certain limits.
46 to 48. that there is no need for the Details of the authorities which the Overview of Board and employees Company to have its own internal Board will be seeking at the 2017 Appointments to the Board continue audit function but this is reviewed Annual General Meeting are set out to be based on merit, regardless of on an annual basis.
The Directors in the 2017 Notice of Annual gender, ethnic group or background.
consider semiannually the General Meeting.
The Board comprises five male principal risks relating to the At each quarterly meeting of the Directors and one female Director.
Such a Board, the Directors follow a formal The Company has no other employees.
review includes the consideration of agenda which includes a review of the whether the Companys third Diversity is an important consideration Companys investments and parties have adequate internal in ensuring that the Board and its associated matters such as gearing, controls in place: and committees have the right balance of asset allocation, principal risks, skills, experience, independence and the Chairman of the Company, marketing and investor relations and knowledge necessary to discharge Mr Ian Reeves CBE is also a economic and industrial issues.
The right blend member of the Audit Committee.
Board is also active in ensuring any of perspectives is critical to ensuring The Board believes it is appropriate regulatory developments which may an effective Board and a for Mr Reeves CBE to be a member affect the operations of the Company successful Company.
of the committee as he is are considered.
The Board regularly considered to be independent and considers the Companys investment there are no conflicts of interest.
In July 2016, a strategy day was held and it GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  37 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Appointment and reelection Directors independence Additionally, the Board undertakes of Directors annual antimoney laundering training The Board has reviewed the and the Jersey resident Directors Under the provisions of the Companys independence of each Director in undertake the required hours of Articles, the Directors retire by accordance with the guidance set out continuing professional development rotation with onethird of the Directors under Principle 2 of the AIC Code and in accordance with their profession submitting themselves for election at the corresponding AIC Guide.
The and Jersey regulations including each Annual General Meeting.
The Board acknowledges that Paul fide training on areas relating to the Board recognises that as a FTSE 250 Gruchy has an indirect holding of Companys activities such as specialist Company and in accordance with 453,825 ordinary shares in the renewable sectors.
corporate governance best practice as Company and that Clive Spears has set out in the AIC Code, all Directors a holding of 25,000 ordinary shares The Board attempts to ensure that it should put themselves forward for in the Company, as at has the appropriate balance of skills, reelection every year.
The Board experience, knowledge and has discussed the interests in the independence in order to remain The Boards policy regarding tenure of Company held by Mr fide Gruchy and effective.
Biographical details of the service is that any decisions regarding Mr Spears and it is satisfied that it Directors are shown on page 34. tenure should balance the need to does not materially impact their maintain continuity, knowledge, Board operation ability to exercise independent experience and independence, against The Board holds formal meetings on a judgement on the Board.
Accordingly, the need to periodically refresh the quarterly basis and additional adhoc the Board considers all Directors on Board composition in order to have the meetings are held when necessary.
the Board to be independent.
appropriate mix of skills, experience, Attendance at the quarterly Board and age and length of service.
The Board Performance evaluation committee meetings is displayed in does not consider that the length of The Directors participated in a formal the table on page 39 under the service of a Director should just be external evaluation process in 2014 heading Meetings.
determined on length of service but which was conducted by independent The principal matters considered by should be considered on an individual external consultants, Thomas & the Board during the year in addition basis.
Therefore, if a Director has Dessain.
The Company intends to to matters formally reserved to the served more than nine years, the carry out an external review every Board included: Board will consider the issue of three years with the next review due to independence carefully on an annual take place in 2017. the Companys strategic model, basis as part of the Board related KPIs and annual budget: During the year, the Directors carried selfevaluation process and will out an internal evaluation process of regular reports from the Boards disclose its conclusions in the the Boards and committees committees: Directors report.
The evaluation process the Annual report and financial included the completion of two statements and halfyearly report: separate questionnaires by the the Companys dividend policy: and Directors.
The areas under review included an assessment of the organisational capability and Chairman, Board and committee succession planning.
process and effectiveness, overall strategy, corporate governance, investment management, communications with the shareholders, training requirements and personal development.
A report summarising the conclusions was presented to and discussed by the Board.
This evaluation report concluded that the Chairman, the Board, the Committees and each of the individual Directors are performing well.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  38 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committees The committee met six times during party service providers whom the the year.
The committee is also committee independently evaluated.
The structure includes an Audit responsible for ensuring key conditions Committee, an Investment Committee, Nomination Committee precedent are complied with for each a Management Engagement The Nomination Committee comprises deal and for signoff on the release of Committee and a Nomination Mr Ian Reeves CBE, Mr Clive Spears capital advances.
Management Engagement Committee Audit Committee Further details relating to the function The Management Engagement The membership and activities of the of the committee can be found on Committee comprises all Directors of Audit Committee are described in its page 45. the Company in view of the wide remit report on pages 42 to 44.
The Company does not have a of the committee.
The Board has Investment Committee Remuneration Committee: the Board agreed terms of reference for the At 30 September 2016, the Investment fulfils the role of the Remuneration committee, which meets at least once Committee is comprised of three Committee as it was agreed that the a year to consider the performance of Directors, namely Mr Clive Spears size and nature the Board does not the Investment Adviser and other third Chairman, Mr Paul fide Gruchy and warrant the establishment of a party service providers, the terms of Ms Julia Chapman.
Ms Chapman was separate committee.
their engagement and to consider appointed to the committee with their continued appointment.
The The terms of reference for each of the effect from 1 October 2015. committee met once during the last committees are available upon request The Board has agreed terms of financial year for an interrogative from the Company Secretary.
reference for the committee which workshop and followup session.
includes meeting to consider each new It was recommended that Gravis investment proposal received from the Capital Partners LLP be retained as Investment Adviser and advisory Investment Adviser in addition to the reports and recommendations.
continued engagement of the third Meetings The number of meetings of the Board and committees held during the year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below: Number of meetings attended Number of Meeting meetings held Ian Reeves CBE Clive Spears David Pirouet Paul fide Gruchy Julia Chapman Michael Gray Quarterly Board meeting 4 4 4 4 3 4 4 Audit Committee 4 2 4 4 Nomination Committee 1 1 1 1 Management Engagement Committee 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Investment Committee 7 7 7 5 Total number of meetings attended 8 13 10 11 10 9 20 additional Board meetings were held during the year.
These meetings were in respect of share issuances, capital raisings and regulatory procedural matters such as the adoption of revised procedures following the implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  39 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Conflicts of interest The Directors must also comply with Internal controls and risk the statutory rules requiring company management review The Directors have declared any directors to declare any interest in an conflicts or potential conflicts of The Directors acknowledge that they actual or proposed transaction or interest to the Board of Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring arrangement with the Company.
which has the authority to approve that there are in place systems such situations.
The Company of internal control, both financial and Dialogue with shareholders Secretary maintains the Register of nonfinancial, and for reviewing their The Board recognises the importance Directors Conflicts of Interests which effectiveness.
The purpose of the of maintaining a purposeful is reviewed quarterly by the Board internal financial controls is to ensure relationship with shareholders.
and whenever changes are notified.
that proper accounting records are The Company, through its Directors, The Directors advise the Company maintained, the Companys assets are Investment Adviser and Broker, Secretary and Board as soon as they safeguarded and the financial engages in ongoing communication become aware of any conflicts of information used within the business with its shareholders.
Directors who have conflicts and for publication is accurate and encourages shareholders to attend of interest do not take part in reliable: such a system can provide and vote at general meetings of the discussions which relate to any of only reasonable and not absolute Company in order that they may their conflicts.
assurance against material discuss governance and strategy and misstatement or loss.
It is the responsibility of each to understand shareholders issues individual Director to avoid a conflict and concerns.
The Chairman of the The Board reviews the effectiveness of arising.
In the event that a conflict of Board and the Chair of each of the its risk management systems and all interest arises, the Director s must committees attend general meetings financial performance and results request authorisation from the Board of the Company to answer any notifications together with the as soon as they become aware of the questions posed by the shareholders Investment Adviser.
Nonfinancial possibility of a situational and met with a number of key internal controls include the systems conflict arising.
shareholders in October 2015. of operational and compliance controls maintained by the The Board is responsible for The Companys annual and interim Administrator and the Investment considering Directors requests for reports are dispatched to Adviser in relation to the Companys authorisation of situational conflicts shareholders by post and are also business as well as the management and for deciding whether or not the available to download from the of key risks as referred to in the situational conflict should be Companys website at www.
Please refer to pages authorised.
30 to 33 for a more detailed overview considered will include whether the This information is supplemented by of the risks that have been assessed.
situational conflict could prevent the the quarterly calculation and There were no matters arising from Director from properly performing his publication of the NAV of the this review that required further duties, whether it has, or could have, Companys shares on the London investigation and no significant failings any impact on the Company and Stock Exchange and the publication or weakness were identified.
whether it could be regarded as likely of a quarterly factsheet by the to affect the judgement and or actions Investment Adviser.
of the Director in question.
When the In the Annual report, the Directors Board is deciding whether to authorise seek to provide shareholders with a conflict or potential conflict, only information in sufficient detail to allow Directors who have no interest in the them to obtain a reasonable matter being considered are able to understanding of recent developments take the relevant decision, and in taking affecting the business and the the decision, the Directors must act in a prospects for the Company in the year way they consider, in good faith, will be ahead.
The various sections of the most likely to promote the Companys Strategic report on pages 6 to 33 success.
The Directors are able to provide further information.
impose limits or conditions when giving Communication of uptodate authorisation if they believe this is information is provided through the appropriate in the circumstances.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  40 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibility for accounting and In arriving at its judgement of what AIFMD company secretarial services has been risks the Company faces, the Board The Company is classed as an contractually delegated to the has considered the Companys externally managed AIF under the Administrator.
The Administrator has operations in the light of the Directive.
The Board appointed the established its own system of internal following factors: Investment Adviser as the authorised controls in relation to these matters, AIFM to the Company and Capita Trust the nature and extent of risks which details of which have been reviewed by Company Jersey Limited as the it regards as acceptable for the the Board as part of the semiannual Companys Depositary under the Company to bear within its overall risk assessment.
Directive on 22 July 2014. business objective: Internal control assessment process AIFM remuneration the threat of such risks The Board conducts a risk assessment With effect from 22 July 2014, the becoming reality: on a semiannual basis.
The review Companys Investment Adviser was the Companys ability to reduce the covers the operation, compliance and authorised as an AIFM by the Financial incidence and impact of risk on its financial risks facing the Company.
Conduct Authority under the AIFMD performance: The Directors confirm that by means regulations.
The Company has the cost to the Company and of the procedures set out above, and provided disclosures on its website, benefits related to the review of risk in accordance with the UK Code and www.
com gcpinfrastructure associated controls of the the AIC Code and Guide, they have investmentsltd, incorporating the Company: and established a continuing process for requirements of the AIFMD identifying, evaluating and managing regulations.
the extent to which the third parties the significant potential risks faced by operate the relevant controls.
The total annual fee paid to the the Company and have reviewed the Investment Adviser by the Company is This process has been in place effectiveness of the internal control disclosed in note 20 to the financial throughout and subsequent to the systems.
The Board, through the Audit statements.
Committee, has identified risk Annual General Meeting management controls in the following Market Abuse Regulation The Annual General Meeting key areas: Following the implementation of the of the Company will be held EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR investment objective and portfolio: on 10 February 2017 at 12 Castle on 3 July 2016, the Board formally investment strategy: Street, St Helier, Jersey JE2 3RT.
adopted revised procedures in relation operational risks particularly in to the management, identification and By order of the Board relation to the preparation of disclosure of inside information and financial information : share dealing in accordance with MAR.
compliance with laws and regulations: and Mr Ian Reeves CBE Chairman reliance on third party service 13 December 2016 providers and financial risks.
