Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 57 Nomination Committee Report Forward Focus Introduction The Nomination Committees primary role is to keep the Boards The Committee spent structure, size and composition under review and to manage appointments to the Board.
This year, the Committee increased considerable time overseeing its focus on formalising this review process and succession planning for the Board.
This approach is in line with the thesearch for an additional increased importance being attached to the work of nomination committees more generally, recognising their critical role in NED, which culminated in the ensuring companies have an effective and well-balanced Board.
The Committee also spent considerable time overseeing the search for an additional NED, which culminated in the appointment of Lysanne Gray.
Lysanne brings considerable experience of risk management, audit, business operations and the food sector.
In addition, the Committee has progressed its review and analysis of each Board members skills and experience, to identify any current or future skills gaps that will need to be filled to successfully implement the Groups strategy.
7 September 2016 Committee Composition and Governance Chairman Members Bob Lawson Nigel Turner Mike Buzzacott Duncan Maskell Lykele van der Broek Lysanne Gray Karim Bitar Focus Areas 2016 Continued succession planning for the Board and senior management Development of a documented skillsmatrix Encourage development of internal high-calibre people to help develop a pipeline of potential Executive Directors Bob Lawson Chairman Genus plc Annual Report 2016 58 Nomination Committee Report continued The Committee has written terms of reference, which set out Lysanne Gray was the outstanding candidate and the Committee the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These are available was pleased to appoint her.
The Board considered that Lysannes from our website: www.
Copies of contracts of great depth of experience in risk management, audit and service and letters of appointment between the Directors and the business operations, together with her exposure to UK corporate Company will be available for inspection at the Registered Office governance and experience in the food sector, will bring additional of the Company during normal business hours until the conclusion value to the Board as Genus continues to deliver its strategy.
of the Annual General Meeting on 17 November 2016, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes Succession Planning Process prior to the Annual General Meeting until its conclusion.
During the year, the Committee formalised and committed to thefollowing succession planning process.
It has three phases: The Committees biographies, along with information on Genuss Assessment.
The Committee reviews the likely tenure of the other Board members, can be found on pages 46 to 47.
NEDs, their independence and their skill sets and, in light of the Groups direction, identifies possible skills gaps for future years.
Committee Roles and Responsibilities Approach.
The Committee encourages the development The Committee is responsible for: of high-calibre internal candidates, to create a pipeline of making recommendations to the Board on the structure, potential Executive Directors, and identifies potential new sizeand composition of the Board and its Committees: NEDs who could fill key positions such as Committee chairs evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence, orpositions generated by the Groups strategic direction.
knowledge and diversity on the Board: Execution.
The Committee holds at least two meetings each succession planning for the Directors and other senior year, including one to discuss succession planning, and other executives: meetings as required to discuss appointments or retirements.
identifying suitable candidates to become Directors, basedonmerit: and Diversity Policy recommending a candidate for Board approval.
Genus recognises and embraces the benefits of Board diversity.
A diverse Board has members with different skills, backgrounds, The Committee met three times in the year primarily to discuss regional and industry experiences, race, gender and other the new NED appointment and succession planning.
By bringing these differences to bear in its discussions and decision-making, a diverse Board can help Genus to maintain The Committees Main Activities DuringtheYear its competitive advantage.
Diversity also links directly to our Appointment of Lysanne Gray values, not only by being people focused and responsible, but The Chairman leads the process for making appointments to by encouraging new ideas which deliver for our customers and the Board.
In appointing a new NED, the Committee sought ultimately drive our results.
Our Board diversity policy therefore a candidate who could chair the Audit Committee, following aims to ensure that we consider diversity in its broadest sense.
Mike Buzzacotts retirement at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee also had a strong desire to increase the Boards diversity.
With Women make up 25% of our senior management and Genus this inmind, the Committee looked for candidates with the willcontinue to make all Board appointments based on followingattributes: individualmerit.
Functional experience a serving or recently retired chief financial officer or senior divisional finance executive: and experience of UK plc accounting.
Career experience Bob Lawson global experience, preferably in an adjacent sector: and Chairman of the Nomination Committee literate in IT systems for an expanding global business.
7 September 2016 Personal characteristics high integrity and honesty: able to add value on ethics, stakeholder management and or regulatory issues: collegiate in style: and willing to constructively challenge and support.
To reach the widest possible candidate pool, we engaged Egon Zender, an executive search firm, which has also provided the business with occasional executive coaching services, and provided a clear recruitment brief, as well as seeking referrals from the Board.
The Chairman identified candidates for interview, who were presented to the Committee and Executive Directors.
Following a one-to-one interview process, the Committee received feedback on each candidate.
Candidates were assessed consistently throughout the process, against the role specification.
