20 Leadership Through Innovation Increasing Genetic Control and Product Differentiation Case Study Tackling Disease with Breakthrough Technology Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory In December 2015, we announced that Syndrome Virus PRRSv is the most our long-standing collaboration with significant and harmful disease faced theUniversity of Missouri had produced by pig farmers.
Millions of pigs and amajor breakthrough the first pigs piglets suffer from the virus each year, resistant to this devastating disease.
Using which causes reproductive failure, gene editing, the University was able to reduced growth and premature death.
breed pigs that do not produce a protein Despite being a challenge for the pork necessary for PRRSv to spread.
Early stage industry for more than a quarter of a studies showed that these pigs stayed century, there is still nocure.
healthy and gained weight normally when exposed to the virus.
We are now working to further develop this technology and Nature Biotechnology, expect that it will take at least five years to December 2015 obtain any required regulatory approvals and make PRRSv resistant animals available to farmers.
Our work will be aided by our new strategic collaboration with Caribou Biosciences our largest technology driven alliance todate.
Caribou is a leader in the revolutionary field of CRISPR-Cas9 geneediting, which allows precise and controllable changes to the genome.
Genus has a worldwide exclusive licence touse the technology to develop new traits in pigs, cows and potentially other livestock species, with PRRSv being one of our first targets.
This collaboration will ensure that Genus remains at the forefront of developing and applying technology tosupport animal well-being.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 21 In December 2015, weannounced a major breakthrough the first pigs resistant to Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 22 Leadership Through Innovation Targeting Key Markets andSegments Case Study Pursuing Growth in theWorlds Largest DairyMarket India offers a major opportunity for Genus.
As we grew the range of locally housed With a population of 1.25 billion people, bulls, it became clear that we needed itis the biggest dairy market in the world.
We formed However, milk yield and production a joint venture with the Chitale family efficiency are low and local restrictions and in early 2016, opened a truly have hindered genetic improvement, world-class facility, incorporating the including a ban on importing bulls and very latest practice in areas such as bull limits on importing semen.
handling, production and health and safety.
The stud is the leading facility In view of these restrictions, we explored ofits type in India and one of the other ways of giving farmers access to our mostadvanced in the world.
much-needed genetics, and identified a way of importing elite North American At full capacity, the stud will be able genetics in the form of embryos, and toproduce more than 7 million semen implanting them in carefully selected straws a year.
It also has room for animals.
We needed a local partner to expansion and is compliant with help with the process and joined forces ourGSS project, so we are ready to with the Chitale family, who owned the implement this when it comes on only private stud in India.
Increasing production is being supported by further development of our commercial infrastructure and offer within India.
This includes expanding our range of distributors and distribution models and developing atailored Indian index for genetics, sowe can breed for Indian conditions and economics.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 23 Case Study Expanding Our IVF Offering In 2015 we acquired a majority holding in IVB, the world leader in bovine in vitro fertilisation IVF.
While IVF and artificial insemination AI both allow farmers to improve their herds genetics on the male side, IVF enables them to select elite female genetics as well.
This allows our customers to accelerate annual genetic improvement in their herds.
In 2015 16, ABS and IVB have worked together to expand IVBs geographical footprint and its product offering.
IVB has established a new presence in Mexico, which is an exciting market with the largest cow pocket in Latin America.
Mexico offers tremendous potential to implement IVF technology and to leverage ABSs strong presence.
The new operation includes a laboratory equipped with the very latest technology.
IVB has also relocated a complete team from Brazil, to ensure its technicians in Mexico have substantial experience of IVF.
This will ensure Mexican producers receive the same high quality as our Brazilian customers.
The laboratory in Mexico can produce either fresh or frozen embryos for dairy producers.
IVBs new Direct Transfer process has simplified the freezing and transferring of embryos, so they can be implanted in one step, similar to AI.
Early results show this new methodology is achieving equal or better results than previous freezing techniques, strengthening customers confidence in Direct Transfer.
IVB and ABS have also begun selling high genetic merit embryos in Brazil and we continue to target the progressive farms segment, which has a high level of technology adoption and the scale to implement it.
In 2015, we acquired a majority holding in IVB, the world leader inbovine IVF.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 24 Leadership Through Innovation Sharing in the Value Delivered Case Study Positioning Genus for Further Success in China China is the worlds largest porcine market and offers major long-term opportunities for us.
When we first established a presence in China, itsdiffering risk profile led us to operate through owned and joint venture farms.
In line with our global strategy, we are now transitioning to contracted production with trusted partners, helping to mitigate our exposure to farming andcommodity price risk.
Riverstone became our first multiplier and royalty-based customer in 2014.
This year we signed a seven-year agreement with the Yunnan Shennong Agricultural Industry Group, to enable them to establish 50,000 sows for a new production facility.
The agreement includes amultiplication farm, with the capacity to produce 30,000 grandparent gilts a year, and theestablishment of a sire line nucleus, which will double our capacity to produce high-quality terminal boars in China.
Both will initially be stocked with the latest high-health greatgrandparent animals from PICs genetic nucleus in the US.
In addition, we signed an agreement with Jinluo group, Chinas biggest slaughter plant, to supply terminal boars for its 50,000 sowcommercial system.
These agreements, and the long-term royalty arrangements involved, give us resilient revenues and enable us to share in the value created by our proprietary genetics.
With this firm foundation in place, we will nowbeintegrating our porcine operations in China and our other Asian markets into the global PIC organisation.
This will help us deliver aconsistentcustomer experience worldwide, whilemaintaining flexibility to address local market needs.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 25 Case Study Preventing Post-Calving Disorders Through Advanced Genetics Cows making the transition from giving birthto becoming productive members of the milking herd can suffer from a number ofsignificant health problems.
In fact, three-quarters of disease in dairy cows occurs in their first 30 days in milk and as many as half of high-producing cows are affected.
This means dairies can lose up to 10% of the herd each year due to transition cow problems, resulting in substantial time, money and productivity costs.
In August 2015, we launched our TransitionRight genetics, giving farmers the first genetic solution to multiple post-calving disorders.
Some of the key problems TransitionRight addresses are mastitis, metritis and ketosis, which typically cost US farmers between US$200 and US$350 per case.
Bychoosing a 5-star TransitionRight sire, farmers can save an average of US$100 per lactation compared with a 3-star sire and US$200 compared with a 1-star sire.
This saving reflects lower treatment costs, labour and lost profits, as well as avoiding additional housing, care, monitoring and feeding expense.
At the same time, reducing the incidence of post-calving disorders is beneficial for animal welfare.
Customers worldwide have responded positively to TransitionRights introduction and have quickly incorporated TransitionRight into their genetic selection criteria.
As a result, we have seen growing demand for high-ranking 4-star or 5-star TransitionRight units.
