50 Corporate Governance Statement Colour the individual bits on top of each curve A Broad Base of Relevant Experience ensuring the Board has the skills it needs.
Leadership During the year we recruited our first International business 7 female NED, Lysanne Gray, who brings Finance 4 The Boards Role a wide range of relevant experience to The Board, under the Chairmans scientific biotech 3 the Board, including knowledge of the leadership, is responsible for ensuring food industry.
More information about Food industry 1 Genuss long-term success.
It approves our approach to Board composition our strategy and corporate goals and and recruitment can be found in the monitors our performance against them.
The Board has a good mix of wellNomination Committee report on It determines that we have the necessary established and newer NEDs.
In recent pages57 to 58. resources, systems and controls to achieve years, we have broadened the range of our objectives, and it sets the culture and skills and experience on the Board through The Board believes that all of the NEDs are standards of behaviour we want to see Non-Executive appointments, giving us independent in character and judgement, throughout Genus.
an appropriate blend of different areas and that there are no relationships or of expertise, long-standing knowledge circumstances that are likely to affect or The Board is also responsible for other of the Group and its markets, and fresh could appear to affect their judgement.
critical decisions, including approving the perspectives.
This helps to ensure the Following the performance evaluation corporate budget and ensuring we have Board provides even-handed oversight, described on page 54, the Board also the right funding, approving material works in a constructive and focused confirms that all the Directors continue contracts, approving material acquisitions manner and has the capabilities to to be effective and to demonstrate and investments, and reporting manage the challenges of a complex and commitment to their roles.
As required by the UK Corporate This Corporate Governance Statement Almost all our Directors have held Governance Code, all the Directors will explains how we structure the Board and leadership positions in international offer themselves for election at the next its Committees, how the Board oversees companies, with several having run AGM, with the exception of Mike Buzzacott the Group and its main activities during businesses overseas.
Half our Directors, who is retiring.
Details can be found in the the financial year.
including the Chairman of the Audit Notice of AGM at the end of this report.
If Committee, have significant financial re-elected to the Board at the AGM, Nigel Board Composition experience, while several have strong Turner will reach the ninth anniversary The Board comprises six independent Nonbackgrounds in scientific research or in of his original appointment as a NED in Executive Directors NEDs, including the leading science-based businesses.
Following review, the Board Chairman, and two Executive Directors is satisfied that Nigel remains independent the Chief Executive and the Group Finance and that he has no connection with the As Genus grows, the Board must evolve Director.
This gives us a large majority of Companys operational activities.
We consider diversity in its independent Directors on the Board.
broadest sense when recruiting, while An Independent Board Board Roles and Responsibilities To ensure we have clear responsibilities at the top of the Company, the Board has set out well-defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
These, along with the responsibilities of our other Directors, are summarised in the table below.
2 Title Individual s Responsibilities Chairman Bob Lawson As Chairman, Bobs primary responsibility is to lead the Board and ensure it operates effectively.
He achieves this in part through promoting an open 1 5 culture, which gives people the courage to challenge the status quo, and holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executives present.
Bob is also responsible for the Boards communications with shareholders.
Executive Directors Chief Karim Bitar Karim is responsible for devising and implementing the Independent Non-Executive Chairman Executive Companys strategy and managing the Companys Independent Non-Executive Directors day-to-day operations.
He is accountable to the Board for the Companys development, in line with its strategy, and taking into account the risks, objectives The two charts that follow show the and policies set out by the Board and its Committees.
length of time our NEDs have served on the Board, and the number of Board Group Stephen Wilson Stephen is responsible for supporting the Chief members with experience of particular Finance Executive in devising and implementing the strategy, Colour the individual bits on relevance to Genus.
Director and managing the Groups financial and operational top of each curve performance.
Non-Executive Tenure on the Board Senior Nigel Turner Nigel provides a sounding board for the Chairman 6 to 9 years 2 Independent and is an alternative line of communication Non-Executive between the Chairman and other Directors.
He leads 3 to 6 years 1 Director meetings of the Non-Executive Directors, without 1 to 3 years 2 the Chairman present, to appraise the Chairmans performance and consults with shareholders in the 0 to 1 years 1 absence of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Mike Buzzacott, The NEDs constructively challenge and assist with Directors Lysanne Gray, the development of the strategy, within the risk and Duncan Maskell, control framework set by theBoard.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Lykele van der Broek n o e i t e a t r t i e Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information m n u m m o e C R C o e e m t t t C i m i d S m i u t R t A m e o e C 51 Board and Committee Structure The CSR Committee defines our GroupThe diagram below shows the Board and the Committees that report to it.
wide CSR strategy, reviews our policies and practices, monitors external developments, and advises GELT and the Board about CSR matters.
It recommends annual goals and initiatives, and identifies the key performance indicators for monitoring Gives us a comprehensive Ensures the integrity of and reporting our performance.
More view of our R&D our financial reporting, information about our CSR activities can be programme and involves evaluates our risk found in the Strategic Report, on pages 42 our business units in management and to 43, and at www.
prioritising our R&D internal control system, initiatives.
and oversees the internal and external auditors.
The R&D Portfolio Management Team R&D PMT meets twice a year.
It provides a forum for prioritising our R&D Leads our strategic Determines programmes, monitoring their progress delivery and ensures remuneration for our and assessing the quality of our R&D organisational Executive Directors and Genus plc infrastructure, personnel and pipeline.
alignment, engagement senior management, to TheR&D PMTs meetings during the year Board and efficient execution.
support our growth were held in Chicago and Basingstoke.
strategy and deliver value for stakeholders.
The R&D PMTs principal responsibilities are to periodically: review and prioritise the Companys Ensures that the Group Reviews the Boards structure, continues to engage in size and composition and investment in research, development business in a socially proposes candidates for and technology: responsible and ethical appointment to the Board.
assess the quality and competitiveness manner.
of the Companys R&D pipeline, including considering its risk profile: oversee and encourage the ideation management process: and approve patent and other IP strategies for new technologies, based on business and technical opportunities.
Board Committees Executive Committees R&D PMT Special Focus Areas in 2016 In addition to the standing agenda Board Committees items, in 2016 the R&D PMT reviewed two The table below shows Board Committee membership: strategic proposals.
These were: a comprehensive review of gene Committee editingtechnology and IP, resulting Director Audit Nomination Remuneration in our collaboration with Caribou Biosciences: and Bob Lawson C M an organisational capability building Karim Bitar M plan, to support Genuss advancing pipeline of gene editing traits, Nigel Turner M M C whichwas used when forming the Mike Buzzacott C M M FY17budget.
Lysanne Gray M M M Duncan Maskell M M M Lykele van der Broek M M M M Committee member C Committee chairman The Committee Chairmen are responsible Executive Committees for overseeing the Committees activities, The Board delegates operating decisions within the terms of reference, and for the to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Committees leadership and effective Director and other members of the Genus operation.
More information about the Executive Leadership Team GELT.
GELTs roles and work of the Board Committees responsibilities and membership are set can be found in their statements on pages out on pages 48 and 49.
57 to 85, and in their terms of reference on our website at www.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 m a C N o e o i T o l o m t m f n t i m r e n o i m a t P t t e i e D o g e & a n R n a M e m v a i t e u T c p e i x h E s r s e u d n a e e G L 52 Corporate Governance Statement continued Leadership continued The Boards Main Activities in 2016 Matters Considered at All Business Development and Strategy Research and Development BoardMeetings Held strategic meeting with GELT Received regular updates on Update on strategic and business see below R&D pipeline developments, developments from CEO Reviewed and approved business new initiatives and potential Update on financial performance development opportunities, collaborations of businesses and forecasts from suchas: Attended a dedicated Board science Group FD Exclusive global licence with education presentation Update on Corporate Governance University of Missouri to develop Received updates from Directors and Legal issues from Group GC and commercialise gene edited attending the R&D PMT andCoSec, and external advisers pigs resistant toPRRSv Updated on the recruitment of key Updated on IVB integration R&D personnel Leadership and Effectiveness New porcine royalty customers Appointment of Lysanne Gray Company Performance signed in China asaNED and induction process: Received updates on the New bull stud completion with Interviews with senior operational performance of the Chitale JV in India management business and market conditions for GSS development progress and Visited the US and customers each division US litigation proceedings see see page 53 to better Received updates on plans to note 7 understand the business address profitability in ABS Exclusive licence of Caribou operations and environment Monitored the Groups performance Biosciences leading CRISPRagainst its goals Cas9 gene editing technology platform Acquisition of St Jocobs Exclusive global licence of IP relating to BRD from Wisconsin State University Updated on numerous business development opportunities including summaries of due diligence reviews Received updates on competitor landscape Note: Figures in brackets are the maximum number Attendance at Board and CommitteeMeetings ofBoard or Committee meetings the Director could The table below shows how many Board and Committee meetings each Director haveattended.
Due to illness, Mike Buzzacott was unable to attend Audit Remuneration Nomination the Board meeting in May 2016.
Mike was provided Board Committee Committee Committee with Board materials and submitted feedback via Non-Executive Chairman the Chairman prior to the meeting.
Due to prior commitments pre-appointment, Bob Lawson 10 10 5 6 6 4 4 Lysanne Gray was unable to attend all meetings following her appointment.
However, Lysanne was Executive Directors provided with all Board and Committee materials and submitted feedback via each respective Karim Bitar 10 10 5 6 4 4 Chairman prior to the meetings.
Stephen Wilson 10 10 5 6 4 Board Strategy Review Non-Executive Directors One of the Boards key responsibilities is to approve the Companys strategy and Nigel Turner 10 10 5 5 6 6 4 4 monitor its performance against strategy.
Mike Buzzacott 9 10 5 5 6 6 4 4 To understand how well our strategy is working and to ensure it remains Lysanne Gray appointed 1 April 2016 2 3 1 1 2 3 1 2 appropriate, the Board holds an annual Duncan Maskell 10 10 5 5 6 6 3 4 strategy review each January.
Relevant members of GELT present to the Board Lykele van der Broek 10 10 5 5 6 6 4 4 ontheir business unit or function.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 53 Employees Finance Health and Safety Received updates on the global Approved the annual and interim Reviewed and monitored the all-staff survey results and results and dividends Groups health and safety follow-up actions Approved the FY17 budget performance monthly written Received updates on key personnel Received tax and treasury updates updates and quarterly review appointments, assignments and Received pension updates Risk Management developments across the Group Approved the facility renewal Monitored the Group risk register Shareholders Executive GELT Updates Received monthly updates on GSS Updated on meetings with Received monthly financial and litigation see note 7 shareholders, potential investors operational performance updates Updated on whistleblowing hotline and analysts Received regular presentations reports and investigations Received a briefing ahead of from each business unit theAGM Approved 10% increase in the dividend payment At this years review, the Board was Board Visit to the US takenthrough: Board visits are designed to enhance We want to ensure that the Board has A review of global industry trends the Boards understanding of our North first-hand experience of key areas of our andchallenges.
American business, its operations on business and markets, so we include an An update on each business units the ground, the markets and the needs annual site visit in the Board calendar.
and R&Ds strategic goals and ways to of our key customers.
The Board met accelerate the time required to reach with some of the largest customers in In May 2016, the Board spent a week such goals.
the US, providing insight into customer visiting our operations and facilities in An update on strategic initiatives and perspectives of Genus and the drivers the US.
This included meeting the senior their anticipated financial impact over of their purchasing decisions.
The management of ABS, PIC and R&D the next five years.
visit was also motivating for our local business units and key members of their An overview of the likely transformation management teams, enabling them to North American teams, and receiving steps for the business in line with the engage with the Board at a local level.
also received presentations from leading A review of projects designed to share industry experts and key customers.
the value of our differentiated products with our customers.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 54 Corporate Governance Statement continued This was the first year in our three-year cycle and we therefore had a formal, rigorous Effectiveness and independent external review.
This evaluation was facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, who has no other connection with the Group.
Board Induction and Training A good induction is a key part of ensuring The Chairman agreed the scope of the review, which included individual interviews with new Board members can fully contribute, each of the Board members and observation at the February 2016 Board and Committee so we get the most benefit from their meetings.
Boardroom Review generated a written report on areas for improvement for experience.
Our induction programme has the Board which was followed up with a presentation to the Board at the May Board three main elements: meeting and then separate discussion of the principal outcomes of the Board review.
helping our Board members to conduct themselves effectively, through a The Evaluations Conclusions course run by Spencer Stuart, one of During the review, the Board demonstrated particular strengths in the following areas: the worlds leading global executive Board culture, with an appropriate balance of challenge and support, and style search and leadership consulting firms: ofchairmanship: ensuring our Directors understand the strategic alignment and knowledge of the competitive landscape: legal and regulatory aspects of being financial reporting and the oversight of risk management from the Audit Committee: aBoard member: and approach to remuneration and alignment with shareholders interests: and an introduction to our business, effective forward agenda planning, prioritisation of issues and quality of information.
through site visits and meetings with our management teams.
In addition, it was noted that the skills and composition of the Board was adding value to the business and that it has a healthy blend of NED perspectives and experience, Induction for Lysanne Gray drawn from relevant executive and portfolio careers, a mix of longer serving and newer Following Lysanne Grays appointment Directors, and a size which enables all the NEDs to contribute.
on 1 April 2016, she underwent a comprehensive induction.
This included: Areas of Focus for 2017 A visit to our US businesses in May 2016, The evaluation identified areas for the Board to consider during the next year, including as part of the May Board meeting.
continuing focus on: This covered a tour of our facilities strategy, including competitor landscape and shareholder expectations: in DeForest and Dekorra: a series of development of the risk agenda, in line with the Companys strategic objectives: and presentations from our ABS and PIC succession planning, including diversity and the mix of skills on the Board, to identify business teams, led by their Chief any current and future skills gaps.
Operating Officers: presentations on our approach to R&D and a tour of our Progress Against 2016 Areas of Focus facilities: and visits to a number of PIC Last years internal Board effectiveness review identified a number of areas for the Board and ABS customers.
The table below shows our progress against these objectives.
Ad hoc updates on the latest developments in corporate governance, Focus area Progress provided by internal and external Continued oversight of competitor activity.
Competitors ongoing activities are presenters.
monitored through our business Meetings with Executive Directors development team and the Board is updated andthe Company Secretary and at each Board meeting of material activities seniormanagers.
Deep dives in the competitor A meeting with the auditor Deloitte LLP.
Further training in corporate governance.
In addition to corporate governance Board Evaluation updates provided by our auditor and We assess the Boards effectiveness over Company Secretary, new corporate counsel a three-year cycle, using a mixture of was invited to brief the Board on recent internal and external evaluations.
legislation changes during the year.
Further exposure to the science that A dedicated Board science education Year 1 underpins our R&D programmes.
session, presented by the Chief Scientific External Board effectiveness review Officer, was held in December 2015, along produces an action plan for areas with the periodic R&D updates provided to offocus the Board.
Further focus on succession planning and A formalised succession planning process, Year 2 gender diversity.
as part of Nomination Committee Follow-up questionnaire by same meetings, has been introduced to ensure external evaluation consultant, to that the Company is better prepared for monitor progress with the focus areas Board succession.
Year 3 Internal questionnaires and interviews with the Chairman Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 55 The assessment also took into account any Quality and Integrity of Our People Accountability risk or control issues we identified through We strive to operate with high integrity in our divisional business reviews, Board and everything we do.
Our control environment Risk Management and Internal Control GELT meetings, and insurers reviews.
depends on high-quality people who The Board is responsible for our risk maintain our ethical standards.
We ensure management system and for reviewing We have an internal control continuous our peoples ability and integrity through our controls and risk mitigations.
improvement work programme and routinely our recruitment standards, training and identify opportunities to strengthen our consistent performance management.
The risk management system is designed control environment and improve our risk TheBoard approves appointments to our to identify, evaluate and prioritise the risks management capabilities.
However, the most senior management positions.
and uncertainties we face, and applies Board has not identified or been told of any to the Board, the Audit Committee, GELT, material weaknesses in our internal controls.
Information and Financial our businesses and our divisional business ReportingSystems reviews.
The Board sets the Groups risk Risk Management Framework We create detailed operational budgets appetite, which defines the types and levels The roles and responsibilities within our risk for the year ahead, along with five-year of risks that the Board is prepared to seek and management framework are set out below: strategic plans, which the Board reviews accept as the Company executes its strategy.
We then monitor our The Board The Board then monitors our risk exposure performance throughout the year, so we Has overall responsibility for the against the risk appetite for our principal can address any issues.
The information Groupsrisk management and internal risks and ensures appropriate executive we consider includes our monthly financial control systems.
This ongoing process results, key performance indicators and Approves our strategic objectives.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the variances, updated full-year forecasts Monitors the nature and extent of risk significant risks faced by the Group has been andkey business risks.
exposure against risk appetite, for our in place for the year under review and up to principal risks.
the date of approval of the Annual Report The main internal control and risk Provides direction on the importance and Accounts.
Our principal risks and our management processes relating to our ofrisk management and risk mitigations for them are summarised on preparation of consolidated accounts are management culture.
pages 18 and 19. our Group-wide accounting policies and procedures, segregation of duties, system GELT The Board performed its annual risk review access controls, a robust consolidation Identifies, addresses and mitigates risks in May 2016.
This review involved a review and reporting system, various levels Group-wide.
of its risk appetite and a fresh assessment of management review and centrally Monitors our risk management process of the types and levels of risk facing Genus definedprocess control points and and internal controls.
as it executes its strategy.
assessment was designed to identify and Audit Committee evaluate any new or emerging risks and Investment Appraisal Supports the Board in monitoring risk identify whether the risk register covered We control our capital expenditure through exposure against risk appetite.
To further assist its our budget process and by having clear Reviews the effectiveness of our risk understanding of risk, the Board continued its authorisation levels, above which our management and internal control system.
programme of visits to our local operations businesses must submit detailed written and received regular political, economic proposals to the Board for approval.
Risk Management and Internal and industry risk updates from the relevant AuditFunction We carry out due diligence for business business groups.
The Board also sought regular Oversees the risk management acquisitions and material licences, and updates on a number of specific risks during process and provides guidance on risk conduct post-completion reviews of major the year, including the Groups work on its: management.
projects, to ensure we identify areas for emerging market strategy, in particular, Maintains the risk schedule created in improvement and correct any areas of progress in China: consultation with seniormanagement.
the GSS project, particularly in light of Engages with senior management, to the litigation the Group initiated, as review risks and their mitigation.
Internal Audit detailed in note 7: Our internal audit activities are provided by the in-licensing of IP rights, particularly Our Internal Control System in-house and external resources, under the those relating to gene editing assets: and The key elements of our internal control leadership of our Head of Risk Management acquisition and integration of companies.
systems are set out below.
An internal and Internal Audit.
During the year, control system cannot completely eliminate Internal Audit completed a risk-based audit Internal Control the risks we face or ensure we do not have a programme agreed by the Audit Committee.
The Board, with the help of the Audit material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the results of Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness these audits and the subsequent actions of our internal control system, as well as Management Structure we take, which we also communicate to our financial, operational and compliance The Board sets formal authorisation levels theexternal auditor.
controls and our risk management.
and other controls that allow it to delegate authority to run our businesses to the Chief All business units complete risk and control The review considered our internal control Executive, GELT and their management self-assessments twice a year.
Internal Audit, self-assessment process, designed to teams.
Our management supplements these as part of their work programme, perform assess compliance with our minimum controls by setting the operating standards independent reviews of these assessments control standards, the independent that each subsidiary needs for its business to identify any deficiencies in our controls internal audit programme and the reports and location.
and how we should address them.
External management prepared when the Board audit also provides observation on the control approved the interim and final results and GELT regularly reviews our performance environment as part of their audit work.
It also assessed: against strategy, budget and a defined set The results are communicated to senior whether we had identified, evaluated, of operational key performance indicators.
management and the Audit Committee.
managed and controlled significant The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, risks: and Group General Counsel and Company whether any significant weaknesses Secretary and the Group Financial Genus plc had arisen, and if so, whether we had Controller also hold monthly reviews Annual Report 2016 addressed them.
56 Corporate Governance Statement continued Relations with Shareholders Investor Relations Calendar Date Type of communication Location September 2015 Preliminary Results Roadshow London, Edinburgh October 2015 Call Sydney November 2015 AGM and Trading Update Basingstoke, London February 2016 & March2016 Interim Results Roadshow London, Edinburgh, Los Angeles, Boston April 2016 European Roadshow Copenhagen, Frankfurt, London June 2016 Calls Canada, London, Madison, Paris Our Chief Executive and Group Finance Director regularly meet Key Themes Discussed in ShareholderMeetings institutional investors, to discuss our strategy and progress, and to Our meetings with shareholders during the year covered a wide understand how investors view our business.
The Chairman also range of topics.
The common themes included: attends certain meetings.
The majority of these meetings take Genuss operational and financial performance.
place after we release our interim and preliminary results.
Market conditions, particularly in dairy, and our initiatives to address them.
During the year, our investor relations programme included Strategic progress across the Group.
meetings in several global locations as set out in our Investor Progress with R&D and our increased spending to accelerate Relations Calendar.
The Board sets time aside during its meetings the programme.
to discuss feedback from shareholder meetings, including relevant Progress with integrating and building on the IVB acquisition.
feedback obtained by independent brokers and our advisers.
Capturing a share of the value we deliver to customers.
Thisallows all Directors to understand major shareholders views.
The opportunity for PRRSv resistant pigs.
The AGM also gives the Board an opportunity to communicate with both private and institutional investors, and we welcome their involvement.
All our Board members will be available to answer questions at the AGM on 17 November 2016.
18 8 Number of non-holding institutions and Number of top 10 potential investors shareholders met 54% Proportion of shares held by institutions met during year Note: Shareholdings as at 30 June 2016.
