46 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Bob Lawson Karim Bitar Stephen Wilson Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Nomination Committee Chair Board Appointment September 2011 Board Appointment January 2013 Board Appointment November 2010 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Karim has extensive experience of Stephen has worked in France and the Bob has significant experience of leading leading international, science-based US and has wide-ranging experience international businesses, including through organisations.
His strategic review of of mergers and acquisitions, financing, operational and culture changes, and a Genus in 2012 resulted in a new vision, strategy and investor relations.
He is deep understanding of listed companies strategy, structure and core values.
He has a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of and corporate governance.
a BSc in Biochemistry from the University Management Accountants and holds of Wisconsin and an MBA from the adegree in Mathematics from the Career University of Michigan.
Bobs executive career spanned several UK and continental groups, Career Career including ten years as Chief Executive of Prior to joining Genus, Karim worked Stephen was previously Executive Vice Electrocomponents plc and three years as for more than 15 years for Eli Lilly and President and Chief Financial Officer of Managing Director of Vitec Group plc.
He Company, where he was President of Lilly Misys plc.
Prior to Misys, he spent 25 years was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of Europe, Canada and Australia.
An exat IBM, in roles encompassing finance, Eurocell plc in January 2015 and retired as McKinsey and Company consultant, he also business development and change Chairman of the Federation of Groundwork held management roles at Johnson and programmes.
He was a Non-Executive Trusts in November 2015.
Bob retired Johnson, and the Dow Chemical Company.
Director of Xchanging plc, where he as Non-Executive Chairman of Barratt chaired the Audit Committee until its Developments plc in November 2014. acquisition by CSC in May 2016.
Mike Buzzacott Lysanne Gray Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Chair Board Appointment April 2016 Board Appointment May 2009 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Lysanne has significant experience of risk Mike has extensive experience of working management, audit, business operations, in Asian and European markets, and acquisitions and disposals, and corporate ofdealing with acquisitions, mergers governance, gained within the food sector.
He is a Chartered She is a Chartered Accountant.
Career Career Lysanne is Financial Controller at Unilever Mike spent 34 years with BP, holding a plc and Unilever NV.
Prior to this she number of international roles including was Chief Auditor, working closely with Finance and Control Director Asia Pacific, Unilevers Audit Committee, and before Chief Financial Officer BP Nutrition and that Chief Financial Officer of Unilevers Group Vice President Petrochemicals.
He is global food service business.
She has also a former Non-Executive Director and Audit held a number of other senior operational Member of Nomination Committee Committee Chairman at Scapa Plc, Rexam and financial positions within Unilever.
Member of Remuneration Committee Plc and Croda Chemicals Plc.
He was also Member of Audit Committee Chairman of Biofuels Plc and adviser to theIneos Group.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 47 Nigel Turner Senior Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee Chair Board Appointment January 2008 Skills and Experience Nigel has substantial experience of international business and corporate finance.
Career Nigel was Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 to November 2007.
Prior to this he was Vice Chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale and Investment Bank, having joined in 2000 from Lazard, where he was a Partner for 15 years and sat on its Supervisory Board.
Nigel is a Non-Executive Director of Croda Internationalplc.
Dan Hartley Professor Duncan Maskell Lykele van der Broek Group General Counsel and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director CompanySecretary Board Appointment April 2014 Board Appointment July 2014 Appointment June 2014 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Duncan has co-founded several biotech Lykele has vast experience of growing Dan has significant experience in multicompanies and has extensive experience companies and working in agricultural jurisdictional patent litigation, mergers of commercialising science and innovation.
businesses throughout the world, and acquisitions, patent licensing and He is also an experienced scientific adviser including in emerging markets.
managing product life cycles in complex to companies, using his broad perspective areas.
He holds degrees in science on life sciences.
Lykele retired as a Member of the Board Career of Management of Bayer CropScience, Career Duncan is Senior Pro-Vice Chancellor PVC a division of Bayer AG, in 2014, being Dan joined Genus from Shire plc, of the University of Cambridge, where he responsible for the commercialisation wherehe was Senior Vice President and and the four other PVCs are responsible of innovative agricultural products and International Counsel.
Dan joined Shire in for the Universitys strategy and policy services globally.
Prior to this, he held 2002, after a number of years in private development.
He was previously Head of senior international roles including the practice, and worked in increasingly senior the School of the Biological Sciences at Head of Bayer CropSciences BioScience and global roles in the UK and the US.
the University, where he led research on division and President of the Bayer infectious diseases of livestock and people.
