NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Board and committee composition We keep the composition of the Board under constant review to ensure that it is appropriately balanced and diverse in terms of skills, experience and industry knowledge.
To supplement this diversity, we also aim to have at least 25% female representation on the Board and we made progress towards this aim during the year.
However, our overriding policy in recommending any new appointment is to select the best candidate on merit against objective criteria: all Directors need to be able to add real value to Board debates and support the achievement of our strategic objectives.
As a Committee, we also need to fulfil our role in safeguarding the continued success of the Company.
Taking into consideration the appointment of Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash as executive Directors in January 2016 and the tenure of Dear Shareholder the non-executive Directors, we identified the need for an additional The appointment and retention of strong candidates is key to the non-executive Director.
We drew up a role specification which success of the Company.
The Nominations Committee plays a vital included experience of the automotive and aerospace industries role in ensuring the selection and recommendation of appropriate and extensive international experience.
Odgers Berndtson were candidates for appointment to the Board.
appointed as external search consultants to assist with the selection and recruitment process.
Odgers Berndtson does not provide any We keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and other services to the Group.
experience on the Board and the composition of Board committees, with any changes recommended to the Board for its consideration.
Short-listed candidates were interviewed and, as the preferred We also review succession planning, both to the Board and to the candidate, Anne Stevens subsequently met with other members senior management grade immediately below Board.
In recommending Anne for appointment to the Board, we took into 2016 activities account the following factors: During 2016 we: The relevance of her experience, including her executive career at Ford Motor Company, her non-executive directorship of Lockheed reviewed the composition of the Board following the appointment Martin, and her past role as chairman, chief executive officer and of Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash as executive Directors in president of Carpenter Technologies, a specialty metals company.
January 2016: The benefits of diversity that Anne would bring to the Board considered and recommended to the Board the appointment in terms of skills, industry experience, gender and nationality.
of Anne Stevens as a non-executive Director: Any potential conflicts of interest arising from her directorship recommended to the Board a three-year extension to Shonaid of Lockheed Martin a customer of GKN and her directorship of Jemmett-Pages term of appointment: and XL Catlin, a global insurance company which provides some considered and recommended the appointment of Kerry Watson insurance cover to GKN.
We recommended to the Board that, as sales to Lockheed Martin were not material to the Group, decisions to exclude Anne from discussions relating to Lockheed Martin should be taken on a case-by-case basis.
It was noted that board directors of XL Catlin were not involved in reviewing or approving individual policies and therefore a conflict was unlikely to arise.
72 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Committee membership Role Mike Turner Chairman The role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process for Angus Cockburn identifying, and making recommendations to the Board on, candidates Tufan Erginbilgic for appointment as Directors and as Company Secretary, giving full Shonaid Jemmett-Page consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Richard Parry-Jones Group.
It also: Anne Stevens makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nigel Stein stepped down as a member of the Committee in Nominations Committee and the composition and chairmanship December 2016.
He will continue to attend meetings and be consulted of the Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees: on appointments.
As such, all members are non-executive Directors.
keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board, The Secretary to the Committee is Kerry Watson, Company Secretary.
including the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity and gender and the independence of the non-executive Directors: and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Committee follows Board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
These procedures, together with written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibilities are available on our website at www.
The Committee met four times in 2016.
Our attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 66.
Extension of term of non-executive appointments Diversity During the year, the Committee considered the extension of the term 2016 saw us making progress towards our diversity objectives, both of appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-Page.
Taking into account her on the Board and in the Group as a whole.
Anne Stevens appointment contribution to the Board and, in particular, her strong performance as a non-executive Director strengthens the female representation in and commitment to the role of Audit & Risk Committee chairman, on the Board to 20%.
The Groups diversity initiative, which targets the Committee recommended to the Board the extension of her term 20% female representation in each of our management grades, aims for a further three years.
The Board approved this recommendation.
to develop and support diversity in our executive pipeline.
Activities We also considered the length of service of Richard Parry-Jones during the year included the cascade of diversity and inclusion who has been a non-executive Director since 1 March 2008.
As part awareness sessions to all employees, a new diversity and inclusion of the external Board effectiveness evaluation, the external facilitator intranet site with tools to promote awareness and understanding of was requested to seek feedback on Richards independence.
Based unconscious bias, and the creation of a new mentorship programme.
on feedback received, the report concluded that Richard continues Further information can be found in the sustainability review on page to play a fully independent role on the Board, that his views continue 53 and the Groups key performance indicators on page 18. to be strongly linked to shareholder interest and that he remains a valuable contributor to Board discussions.
The views of significant Performance evaluation shareholders were also sought.
The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of the In light of this, and recognising the importance of continuity and the Board review process described on page 67.
No changes were value that experienced Directors can bring to the Board and the considered necessary to the Committees terms of reference as Group, in January 2017 we recommended that Richards term a result, and the Committee was considered to be effective in be extended and the Board accepted this recommendation.
Appointment of Company Secretary On behalf of the Committee The Committee followed the Board-approved procedures in recommending the appointment of Kerry Watson as Company Secretary following the 2016 annual general meeting.
The Board accepted this recommendation.
Mike Turner CBE Chairman of the Nominations Committee 27 February 2017 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73
