48 Genus Executive Leadership Team GELT GELTs Responsibilities GELT shapes our Company vision, demonstrates the values at the heart of our business, and leads our strategic planning and delivery.
Our vision and values are fully embedded in the business, giving the entire Genus team a clear and compelling culture, purpose and direction.
GELT also ensures organisational alignment, engagement and efficient execution throughout the Group.
This involves crucial Karim Bitar Stephen Wilson commercial, scientific, operational and Chief Executive Group Finance Director people decisions.
Equally important is GELTsstewardship of Genuss reputation, ethical working and compliance.
To achieve its objectives, GELT focuses on the following areas: corporate strategy implementing the strategy approved by the Board to achieve sustained growth, and developing Genus as a science and intellectual property-based company: performance management driving operational results and delivery of corporate goals: ensuring core processes are reliable and efficient: regularly reviewing R&D plans: Saskia Korink Romani Jerry Thompson managing risk, including risk mitigation: Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS Chief Operating Officer, Genus Asia and managing the Genus balanced scorecard, including customer Skills and Experience Skills and Experience equitymetrics: Saskia has worked in Europe, Brazil and Jerry is a natural entrepreneur and has people developing high-performing the US bringing extensive commercial brought his deep industry knowledge, teams by rigorous selection, and management experience gained commercial skills and international development and setting stretching from roles in sectors ranging from experience to develop the business in goals, together with managing agriculture to consumer goods.
She has countries as diverse as the UK, Russia succession and nurturing talent to highly developed strategic and business and China.
He has helped the Company bringthrough the next generation development skills, speaks several establish and grow its business in new ofleaders: and languages and holds an MBA from markets, particularly those in Central resources management judiciously Columbia Business School.
investing in the business for both organic and inorganic growth, including capital Career Career expenditure and human resources.
Saskia joined Genus in 2013 and became Jerry has worked for PIC and subsequently Chief Operating Officer of Genus ABS the Genus for more than 20 years.
He joined GELTs members are set out on this page.
Prior to Genus, she spent as a graduate in the UK, subsequently The executives form a high-functioning, ten years with Cargill Inc, becoming its working in both Siberia and Romania high-performing team, combining first female business unit manager and before taking on leadership of PIC in professional expertise with commercial rising to be Vice President of Marketing Central and Eastern Europe.
In the acumen to deliver the shared strategy for its animal nutrition business.
Before following years, he led PIC Europe forthe Group.
joining Cargill, she spent seven years with before becoming Regional Director for Boston Consulting Group.
In July 2016, she PIC and ABS in Russia & Asia Pacific and became Chief Operating Officer of Genus subsequently Chief Operating Officer for ABS Dairy.
In July 2016, he became Chief Operating Officer for Genus ABS Beef.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 49 See pages 46 and 47 for Karims, Stephens and Dans biographies.
Dan Hartley Group General Counsel and CompanySecretary Dr Bill Christianson Dr Jonathan Lightner Catherine Glickman Chief Operating Officer, Genus PIC Chief Scientific Officer and Head of Group HR Director Genus R&D Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Bill has spent his whole career at Skills and Experience Catherine brings more than 30 years the intersection of agriculture and Jonathan is a world-renowned of HR experience within multinational biotechnology.
As a result, he brings a quantitative molecular geneticist with organisations, with particular emphasis unique blend of deep industry knowledge expertise spanning inter-related fields on shaping and embedding approaches to and extensive commercial and global such as molecular biology, analytical talent management, succession planning, experience to Genus.
He holds doctorates chemistry and omic technologies.
He also leadership development, employee DVM and PhD in Veterinary Medicine has extensive regulatory and commercial relations and reward.
She has also held fromthe University of Minnesota.
He holds a Masters in Systems positions on numerous Board Committees Engineering from Iowa State, an MBA from and acted as a pension trustee.
Career the University of Iowa and a Doctorate Bill has worked for the business since 1993, in Plant Physiology from the Institute Career when he joined as Manager of Veterinary of Biological Chemistry at Washington Catherine joined Genus in 2012 after R&D, based in the US.
20years with Tesco, the international worked in a range of operational roles retailer, concluding with three years spanning Europe, South America and the Career as Group HR Director.
Prior to that, she US, before being appointed as General Jonathan joined Genus in 2013 from Pioneer had held HR roles supporting Tescos Manager of PIC North America in 2007.
Hi-Bred International Inc, a DuPont business, international roll-out and a period of Heled the combined ABS and PIC business where he led a global team focused on major expansion in the UK.
Before Tesco, across the Americas from 2010, before genetic solutions to enhance agricultural she worked in HR for retailers Somerfield becoming Chief Operating Officer of productivity.
His other leadership roles with plc and Boots plc.
She is a Non-Executive GenusPIC in 2012.
DuPont Pioneer included Senior Research Director of Marstons PLC.
Director for Trait Characterization within Hi-Bred International.
Jonathans previous experience included three years with Exelixis as Director of Biochemical Genomics.
