Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 59 Audit Committee Report Ensuring the Companys Financial Reporting Integrity Dear Shareholder The Committee continued The Audit Committee acts on behalf of the Board and shareholders, to ensure the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, tofocus its efforts on risk evaluate its system of risk management and internal control, and oversee the performance of the internal and external auditors.
We management, internal control design our annual work programme to deliver these commitments.
and the Groups financial During the financial year, we focused on risk management, internal control and the Groups financial reporting processes.
We have supported the Board in considering its risk appetite and in reviewing the long-term viability statement and supporting analysis.
We have carefully considered the critical accounting policies and judgements, the quality of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and reviewed the half-year and Annual Report and Accounts, together with the related external audit reports.
We have also reviewed the effectiveness of internal and external audit, discussed the outcomes of these assessments and agreed any actions that were needed.
The Committee was satisfied with the performance of the internal audit function and the external auditor during the year.
In April 2016, we welcomed a new member to the Committee with the appointment of Lysanne Gray.
When I step down from the Board in November 2016, Lysanne will be appointed Chair of the Audit Committee.
I am happy to report that the Committee membership continues to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code and related guidance, with all members being NEDs, and maintains a sound range of financial, commercial and scientific expertise required to fulfil its role effectively.
More details on this, and the appointment and induction process for new members, are in the Corporate Governance Statement of this Annual Report.
7 September 2016 Committee Composition and Governance Chairman Members Mike Buzzacott Nigel Turner Lysanne Gray Duncan Maskell Lykele van der Broek Focus Areas 2016 Biological assets valuation Goodwill and intangible assets Pensions Mike Buzzacott Genus plc Chairman of the Audit Committee Annual Report 2016 60 Audit Committee Report continued The Committees members are Non-Executive Directors with the effectiveness of the Groups accounting systems and a wide range of financial, commercial and scientific research control environment, including risk management and the expertise, appropriate for fulfilling the Committees duties.
In internal audit function: and FY16, the Committee met the UK Corporate Governance Codes the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Groups requirement that at least one Committee member should have external auditor, including any non-audit services it provides to recent and relevant financial experience, with Mike Buzzacott the Group.
andLysanne Gray both having this experience.
The Committee also: The Committee has formal terms of reference, approved by the ensures that the Company maintains suitable confidential Board, that comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
arrangements for employees to raise concerns: and These are available from our website: www.
reviews the Companys systems and controls for preventingbribery.
Our annual review of these terms took place during the year.
The Committee also assessed its own effectiveness, through The Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying astructured questionnaire, and concluded that it was effective.
any matters that require action or improvement, and making recommendations about the steps to betaken.
Committee Role and Responsibilities The Committees role and responsibilities include reviewing The Committees Main Activities During the Year andmonitoring: During the year, the Committee held five meetings and invited the the financial reporting process and any significant financial Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, reporting judgements: the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Risk Management and the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any Internal Audit, and senior representatives of the external auditor formal announcements relating to financial performance: to attend these meetings.
The Committee members and I also the Companys reporting to shareholders: held separate private sessions during the year with the Head of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external audit partner.
At its five meetings, the Committee focused on: Financial Reporting The main areas of focus and matters where the Committee specifically considered managements judgements are set out below: Financial reporting area Judgement and assumptions considered Biological assets valuation In compliance with IAS 41, Genus records its biological assets at fair value in the Group balance sheet 354.4m, with the net valuation movement excluding foreign exchange translation shown in the income statement.
At each reporting period, the Committee was updated on the methodology and outcomes of the biological assets valuation.
Having noted that the methodology was unchanged during the year, the Committee debated and considered managements assumptions and estimates, and discussed andreviewed the external auditors report on this area.
The Committee was satisfied withmanagements accounting treatment including the income statement increase of 9.4m in the value of porcine and the reduction of 26.5m in the value of bovine biological assets.
Goodwill and intangible assets Genus has 86.0m of goodwill and 78.0m of intangible assets on the Group balance sheet.
These balances are tested for any indications of impairment by reference to the forecasts for the relevant cash generating units.
Within intangible assets, Genuss policy is to capitalise certain development costs and to perform periodic impairment reviews of the carrying amounts.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had 17.8m of capitalised development expenses in respect of GSS, as well as 7.7m in associated fixed assets.
During the year, the Committee reviewed progress against plans, the costs incurred and the projects timelines to full operation and the outcome of the litigation with ST.
The Committee discussed managements reports in detail, including whether any known issues might block the projects completion.
The Committee also discussed managements goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews, the external auditors work, including its assessment of managements models supporting the estimates and judgements.
After due challenge and debate, the Committee was satisfied with managements assumptions and judgements.
Pensions The Committee received and reviewed management reports on the treatment of pension costs and also received and considered the external auditors pensions accounting input.
The Committee considered managements recommendations were appropriate, including the treatment of the gain of 43.9m due to the change in pension increases from RPI to CPI and the use of the 2015 valuation schedule of contributions giving rise to the IFRIC 14 additional liability of 14.9m.
The Committee continued to review the status of the other parties who are jointly and severally liable for the Milk Pension Fund deficit and concurred with managements assumptions for reporting Genuss share of the fund.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 61 The Committee assessed the external Monitoring Business Risks Oversight of External Audit and auditors performance in conducting the The Committee reviewed the Group-wide InternalAudit audit for the June 2015 year end, based risk management process designed to Internal Audit on questionnaires completed by key identify, evaluate and mitigate risks.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the finance staff and Committee members.
In the external auditors presence, internal audit functions scope, terms of The questionnaires covered the external the Committee discussed the risks reference, resources and activities.
The Head auditors fulfilment of the audit plan, the identified with the Chief Executive and of Risk Management and Internal Audit auditors robustness and perceptiveness Group Finance Director, along with provided regular reports to the Committee in its handling of key accounting and audit managements plans to mitigate them.
In on the work undertaken and managements judgements, the content of the external view of their importance during the year, responses to proposals made in the internal auditors reports, and cost effectiveness.
the Committee ensured that the Board audit reports issued during the year.
The The Committee also considered any received and discussed detailed input from Committee continued to meet the Head regulatory reviews performed on the management on the following key risks of Risk Management and Internal Audit external auditor.
While noting some and mitigations: without management being present.
The opportunities for further improvement, the GSS: this is the risk that we are unable Committee reviewed and was satisfied with Committee concluded that the external to commercialise our GSS technology.
the internal audit functions performance.
auditor was effective and was satisfied The Board continued to receive regular with the plan put forward by the external updates throughout the year on go-toExternal Audit auditor to respond to the opportunities for market readiness, as well as the legal The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, was improvement identified.
proceedings relating to the anti-trust first appointed as the Companys external and patent issues connected with this auditor for the period ended 30 June 2006.
In 2015, the Committee oversaw a formal key initiative.
audit retender process for the audit of the Pensions: the Board was updated on financial year ending 30 June 2016.
The the status of discussions with the Milk process concluded with the selection and Pension Fund in relation to the decision Mike Buzzacott subsequent reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
to move benefit indexation to CPI and Chairman of the Audit Committee The new audit partners first audit period is the progress of the triennial valuation.
7 September 2016 the financial year ended 30 June 2016.
Health and Safety: the Board received updates on the controls and mitigation The Committee reviewed and agreed the activities in place and or being external auditors scope of work and fees, implemented to manage this risk, both held detailed discussions of the results on Company and third-party premises.
of its audits and continued to meet the external auditor without management The Committee also commissioned work being present.
The Committee reviewed on IT security and data protection from the external auditors objectivity and a new Group CIO and on biosecurity and independence and the Companys policy continuity of supply, both of which will on engaging the external auditor to report back in FY17.
The Committee received details of the external auditors Internal Control System non-audit services to the Group, reviewed Our risk management process and system the nature and monetary levels of these of internal controls are described in detail services, which stood at 33% of audit on pages 18 and 19.
The Committee fees, and reviewed compliance with reviewed a refreshed approach to the Companys Non-Audit Services by monitoring the Groups implementation Auditor Policy.
See note 8 for further of controls and the results of the key details.
The Committee was satisfied that financial controls self-assessment process, using Deloitte for such services did not which is performed on a six-monthly impair its independence as the Groups basis.
The Committee further reviewed externalauditor.
Internal Audits findings at each scheduled meeting, and the Groups whistle blowing policy and bribery prevention procedures and conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures.
The Committees review of the Groups system of internal control did not identify any material deficiencies.
However, Genus routinely identifies and actions control improvement opportunities and the Committee discussed with management various opportunities to further strengthen the Companys system of internal control.
