AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT During the year, we reviewed a report on the impact assessment of IFRS 15 which we, along with other listed companies, will be required to adopt for the financial year ending 31 December 2018.
The assessment considered the areas that will drive changes in the Groups financial statements and highlighted that the standard was likely to require more estimates and judgement in application, particularly in the Aerospace division, and would impact both the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
More details relating to the initial impact assessment on the Groups future transition to IFRS 15 can be found in Note 1 to the financial statements.
The UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees were updated during the year and we have reviewed and updated our terms of reference to ensure that they are aligned with the new requirements which come into effect during 2017.
Dear Shareholder Looking ahead to 2017, we will continue to focus on the assurance I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committee report for and risk management processes in the business and plan to receive 2016.
The Committee provides independent oversight and plays updates on the improvements made to the risk management a fundamental role in protecting shareholders interests by monitoring systems and assurance processes in each division to manage quality management and auditor conduct, reviewing the effectiveness of the and programme management risk.
We will also review the project Groups internal controls and risk management systems and ensuring plan to implement IFRS 15 and receive updates on progress made the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
Details of our against the plan during the year.
activities during the year and up to the date of this report are set out on the following pages.
During 2016, we welcomed Anne Stevens to the Committee.
Anne brings a fresh perspective to the Committee and strengthens its composition.
Following completion of the formal audit tender in 2015 and the appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte in May 2016, the Committee oversaw the handover between  LLP PwC and Deloitte to ensure a seamless transition.
Deloitte followed a detailed transition plan which focused on developing a deeper understanding of our businesses and people, and leveraging the knowledge and experience of PwC to minimise the impact of the transition on our business.
The Committee received regular updates on the status of the transition and was provided with valuable feedback on the processes and controls at GKN.
Further details of Deloittes activities during the transition period can be found on page 78.
During the year, we continued to increase our focus on risk management and received reports on the systems in place for managing risks relating to the supply chain and export control, which is particularly relevant in our Aerospace division.
We also received updates from the divisional finance directors in respect of their businesses and a report from the Group Financial Controller on the implementation of Group controls in the Fokker businesses.
74 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Committee membership Role The primary role of the Committee is to ensure the integrity of the Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of sound Angus Cockburn internal control and risk management systems in order to safeguard Tufan Erginbilgic shareholder interests.
Richard Parry-Jones Anne Stevens This includes responsibility for monitoring and reviewing: The Committee comprises independent non-executive Directors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the significant with a wide range of skills, experiences, professional qualifications and accounting judgements contained in them, ensuring that the knowledge.
In the Boards view, the Committee has competence relevant judgements and policies taken by management are appropriate: to GKNs sectors and operations: Richard Parry-Jones and Anne Stevens the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external have extensive engineering and automotive experience and Tufan auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of Erginbilgic has a significant amount of international experience in non-audit services: a multinational corporation.
Additionally, and as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, both Angus Cockburn and I have recent the effectiveness of the external audit process, making and relevant financial experience.
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors: The Secretary to the Committee is Kerry Watson, Company Secretary.
the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function In order to maintain effective communication, we invite the Group Corporate Audit : Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Corporate Audit, the external audit engagement partner and other members of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management senior management to attend Committee meetings as necessary.
systems: and Members of the Committee meet separately at the start of each the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing policies.
meeting to discuss matters in the absence of any invitees.
At the Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and conclusion of meetings, the Head of Corporate Audit and the external responsibilities are available on our website at www.
audit engagement partner are each given the opportunity to discuss matters without executive management being present.
Both the The Committee met six times in 2016, with meetings generally timed Head of Corporate Audit and the external auditors have direct access to coincide with the financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
to me should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal Attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 66.
I report formally to the Board on Committee proceedings after each meeting and Committee meeting papers and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
Activities Our activities during the year and up to the date of this report have principally related to financial reporting, the external audit and internal control and risk management.
Financial reporting We have: considered information presented by management on significant accounting judgements and policies adopted in respect of the Groups half-year and annual financial statements and agreed their appropriateness: considered accounting matters relating to key areas including impairment testing, the clarity and completeness of reporting and the finalisation of the Fokker opening balance sheet: examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial statements: discussed audit reports with the external auditors which highlighted key accounting matters and significant judgements in respect of each set of financial statements: and reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern judgement and the viability statement given on page 38.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Audit & Risk Committee report continued Significant issues We identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2016 financial statements.
We consider these areas to be significant taking into account the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
We debated the issues in detail to ensure that the approaches taken were appropriate.
Area of focus Committee action Impairment testing We considered the significant judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in preparing the impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate.
We considered the An impairment review is carried out annually by appropriateness of assumptions relating to: management to identify business units in which the recoverable amount is less than the value the discount rates, which reflect the risk inherent in each unit taking into account factors of the assets carried in the Groups accounts.
such as geography and sector, used to discount the expected future cash flows to their Impairment results in a charge to the Group present value: income statement.
the long-term growth rates for the regions in which the units were based: and Key judgements and assumptions need to be the forecast of operating cash flows, based on the most recent budget and strategic reviews made when valuing the assets of the business and taking into account data such as sales profile and prices, market performance, volume, units including the amount of potential future raw material costs and capital expenditure.
cash flows arising from them.
We also considered sensitivities that would impact the assumptions noted above.
We obtained the external auditors view in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and outcome of the review.
Taking this into account, together with the documentation presented and the explanations given by management, we were satisfied that the approach taken was thorough and the judgements were appropriate.
The review resulted in the impairment of three units and a charge to the income statement of 52 million.
See Note 11 c to the financial statements Clarity and completeness of reporting We considered the clarity and completeness of the accounts as a whole taking into account matters such as: GKN Driveline and GKN Aerospace operate in highly competitive markets.
Contracts, the presentation and disclosure relating to the sale of Stromag: commercial transactions and commercial claims the closure of the GKN Aerospace facility in Yeovil: can be complex and can require judgement as to accounting treatment and the estimation of a decision to curtail operations of a Driveline business: potential liabilities.
the Groups strategic restructuring plan undertaken in the second half of 2016: and Significant events during the year require acquisition-related restructuring during the integration of Fokker.
judgement in determining which items should be separately identified.
We received updates from management explaining the basis of accounting for complex contracts and significant events.
We sought Deloittes opinion on the proposed presentation and disclosure and concluded that it was appropriately transparent and complete.
76 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We also reviewed the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered them to be stable in nature and therefore we did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2016 financial statements.
Area of focus Committee action Development costs on aerospace Impairment reviews of GKN Aerospaces programme development costs against associated programmes future cash flows are circulated to the Committee every six months.
On each occasion we reviewed the valuation and the assumptions made, including programme risk factors, and the Development costs for large aerospace most recent external forecasts of aircraft programme demand.
Actions and factors likely to programmes can be significant.
Assessing influence levels of headroom in impairment tests were noted and the view of the external the likelihood of future recoverability of costs auditors was sought in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and outcome.
involves various judgements and assumptions relating to anticipated volumes, forecast cash Taking into account the documentation presented and the assessment from the external flows and discount rates.
auditors, we were satisfied with the approach and judgements taken.
See Note 11 b to the financial statements Tax matters We reviewed management updates and the external auditors assessments on certain tax matters, including: GKN is subject to tax audits globally which are often long and complex processes.
Provisions the creation of new provisions for uncertain tax positions.
In particular, 2016 saw an increase made for uncertain tax positions involve in the level of provision in certain countries where GKN has been subject to lengthy audits judgement in their valuation and the likelihood and challenging assessments: and of challenge to tax positions.
the release of tax provisions on resolution of previously uncertain tax positions, including releases following the finalisation and settlement of audits in respect of specific subsidiaries.
Having considered updates from management and the external auditors views, the Committee was satisfied with the judgements taken by management.
See Note 6 to the financial statements Fokker accounting We considered a number of key assumptions in order to assess the appropriateness of judgements taken by management in finalising a fair value opening balance sheet.
In particular, The Group acquired Fokker in October 2015. we focused on: Due to the complexity of the transaction, management have used a one-year hindsight the reassessment and adjustment of certain provisions and liabilities principally in relation period to further assess the valuation of to a resolved regulatory matter and ongoing contractual obligations: and intangible assets and the assumptions the reclassification of certain small balances.
underpinning certain provisions in order to finalise a fair value opening balance sheet.
We obtained the external auditors view on the appropriateness of these judgements.
Having considered Deloittes view and the explanations given by management, we were satisfied with the judgements put to us by management.
Post-employment obligations Key matters reviewed included the appropriateness of valuation assumptions such as discount rates, mortality and inflation.
The Committee also reviewed the impact of certain pension Determining the current value of the Groups fide-risking activities on the financial statements.
future pension obligations requires a number of assumptions.
These assumptions relate Valuation assumptions, prepared by external actuaries and adopted by management, were principally to life expectancy, discount rates considered in the light of prevailing economic indicators and the view of the external auditors.
applied to future cash flows, rates of inflation The approach adopted by management was accepted as appropriate.
See Note 24 to the financial statements GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Audit & Risk Committee report continued External audit Independence and objectivity As a Committee we are responsible for safeguarding the independence We have: and objectivity of the external auditors in order to ensure the integrity of the external audit process.
As such, we are responsible for the considered the FRCs Audit Quality Review of PwCs audit of the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys Groups 2015 financial statements and communicated the review policies on external audit which regulate the appointment of former to Deloitte as the current auditors: employees of Deloitte and set out the approach to be taken when monitored the handover from PwC to Deloitte: using the external auditors for non-audit work.
approved Deloittes audit plan, terms of engagement and fee for Given the recent tender process, we did not need to consider the the audit of the 2016 financial statements: impact of Deloittes tenure on its independence.
However, our annual review processes included: reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte: receiving confirmation from Deloitte that they remained independent and objective within the context of applicable recommended to the Board the re-appointment of Deloitte for professional standards: 2017: and ensuring that management confirmed compliance with the Groups noted the non-audit fees payable to Deloitte, having regard to policies on the employment of former employees of Deloitte and the transitional policy on the provision of non-audit services.
the use of Deloitte for non-audit work: and considering Corporate Audits review of Deloittes objectivity, The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the independence and effectiveness, and of the audit process.
Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
We also approve the terms of engagement and fees of the external auditors, As a result of this review, we concluded that Deloitte remained ensuring that they have appropriate audit plans in place and that an appropriately independent.
appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and the Non-audit services external auditors.
In order to safeguard independence further, we monitor compliance Auditor appointment with the policy for the provision of non-audit services.
The policy Following a formal tender process, Deloitte was appointed by sets out a core list of permissible non-audit services which can be shareholders as the Groups statutory auditors in May 2016.
In line undertaken by the external auditors if there are compelling reasons with regulations on auditor rotation the external audit contract will to do so.
It generally excludes the external auditors from undertaking be put out to tender at least every ten years.
In addition, Deloitte will consultancy work and tax services.
In order to facilitate the efficient be required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit termination of existing contracts with Deloitte, transitional relief was every five years.
As a result, Ian Waller, the current lead partner, will provided for additional permitted services during 2016 relating to be required to change in 2021.
Remuneration Committee advisory work, corporate tax compliance, expatriate tax services and payroll services.
Deloittes work in 2016 Auditor transition in relation to these matters was restricted to the conclusion of Deloittes transition plan focused on developing a deeper their activities in 2015: no work was undertaken in relation to understanding of the Groups businesses and people, and leveraging 2016 matters.
the knowledge and experience of PwC.
Key elements of their transition included: shadowing PwC during the 2015 year-end audit The use of Deloitte for non-audit services is subject to materiality process and attending Committee meetings prior to their formal thresholds based on the value of the proposed non-audit service appointment: meeting with PwC and reviewing their audit files: engagements.
Any proposal to use Deloitte for non-audit work with meeting with the divisional finance teams, key members of a value between 50,000 and 250,000 must be submitted to the management and members of specialist Group functions: performing Group Finance Director for approval prior to their appointment.
All detailed planning processes for key sites: and testing the design and proposals above this amount must be approved by me as Chairman implementation of controls over our significant risks.
The Committee of the Committee.
In addition, the Group Finance Director will seek received regular updates on the status of the transition during the my prior authorisation for certain aspects of non-audit services year and was provided with valuable feedback on the processes relating to acquisitions, disposals and investigative accounting and controls at GKN.
services, regardless of the fee value.
The use of contingent fees is strictly prohibited under the policy.
2016 audit plan Deloittes audit plan set out the scope and objectives of the audit There were no significant engagements, or categories of engagements, together with an overview of the planned approach, an assessment of the external auditors for non-audit services during 2016. of the Groups risks and controls and proposed areas of audit focus.
Additionally, Deloitte worked with Corporate Audit and management Details of the fees paid to Deloitte in 2016 can be found in note 4 a to identify factors which could increase the risk of control breakdown.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2016 These areas were then targeted proactively to ensure they received amounted to 0.2 million which related principally to audit-related the appropriate amount of attention during the audit.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees totalled 4.1% ratio of 0.041:1.
All such activities remained within the policy approved by the Board.
78 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Effectiveness and reappointment of Deloitte for 2017 Internal control and risk management The Committee assessed Deloittes performance throughout the year taking into consideration: In fulfilling our remit we: their feedback and insights on the Groups business and internal considered the Internal Control Review conducted by control systems: Corporate Audit: the quality of Deloittes reports to the Committee: reviewed the results of audits undertaken by Corporate Audit: their planning process and audit plan for the 2016 financial received reports on control issues of significance to the Group: statements: reviewed the status of the Groups internal financial control feedback from Deloitte on their own performance against their monitoring system: transition plan: and reported to the Board on our evaluation of the effectiveness of their performance in the 2016 half-year audit process.
the Groups systems of internal control and risk management, informed by reports from Corporate Audit and Deloitte: and Our assessment was supplemented by our review of Deloittes 2016 Audit Transparency report and the FRC Audit Quality Inspection carried out in-depth reviews of each divisions risk management report in respect of Deloitte.
system in relation to the supply chain and the systems in place for managing risks in respect of export control in GKN Aerospace A survey to review the effectiveness of Deloittes audit process has and GKN Powder Metallurgy.
commenced and will be finalised following completion of their year-end work.
The views of senior management and finance personnel will be taken into account and the results will be reported In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal to the Committee later in 2017. control and risk management, we considered the Internal Control Review conducted by Corporate Audit.
The review drew together Following our assessment, we consider both Deloitte and their and assessed the output and results of key sources of assurance audit processes to be effective.
It is our opinion that Deloitte have for the Group and provided the Committee with assurance that the developed a good understanding of the Groups businesses and processes reviewed were continuing to operate effectively.
internal control systems in the time since their appointment and have a strong comprehension of the challenges that we face.
Deloitte have During the year, we considered feedback from Deloitte with regard to also developed a good working relationship with management which the Groups internal control systems and reviewed quarterly reports is supplemented by robust challenge of management judgements.
from Corporate Audit which detailed any internal control issues and identified any themes arising with regard to audit recommendations.
Taking these elements into account, we concluded that it was We received regular updates on progress in respect of the continued appropriate to recommend to the Board Deloittes reappointment development and improvement of the Groups risk management as the Companys auditors for 2017. systems and independent assurance programmes.
In particular, There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of we were updated on the mapping exercise which saw all the external auditors.
divisions complete risk maps for contracting, quality and programme management which are three of the Groups principal risk areas.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of We also reviewed each divisions risk management system in relation the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year to supply chain risk and the systems in place in the GKN Aerospace under review.
and GKN Powder Metallurgy divisions to manage export control risk.
Where we identified areas requiring improvement, specific actions were delegated to management with progress against the actions FRC Audit Quality Review tracked at subsequent meetings.
No significant failings or The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected PwCs audit of the weaknesses were identified during our review of the Groups Companys 2015 financial statements as part of their annual systems of internal control and risk management and we concluded inspection of audit firms.
The focus of their review is on identifying that the risk management and internal control processes in place areas where improvements can be made.
I received a full copy of the during 2016 and up to the date of this report were effective.
findings of the review and discussed them with Committee members, senior management and Deloitte.
There were no significant findings I reported the outcome of our review to the Board and confirmed and only one matter relating to the audit of the Groups SDS joint that the Committee was satisfied that it was appropriate for the venture in China was identified as requiring limited improvement.
Board to make the statements required by the 2014 UK Corporate As Deloitte are the incumbent auditors of SDS, we expect that this Governance Code with regard to the Groups systems of internal matter will be addressed during the 2016 audit process.
Internal audit In fulfilling our responsibilities, we: reviewed progress against the 2016 Corporate Audit programme: approved the 2017 Corporate Audit programme, including the proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources: and reviewed the effectiveness of Corporate Audit.
To safeguard its independence, Corporate Audit reports directly to the Committee and, as Chairman, I play a key role in setting the Head of Corporate Audits objectives and reviewing performance.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Audit & Risk Committee report continued The Committee reviews and approves the annual audit programme Performance evaluation prior to the start of each year to ensure that it is aligned to the key The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of the risks of the business.
During the year the Committee is updated on: Board evaluation process described on page 67.
A report on the audit activities: Committees performance was provided by the external facilitator and circulated to Committee members.
Feedback showed that the progress against the approved annual programme: Board had confidence in the effectiveness of the Committee and any control issues identified: requested that the Committee continue its focus on risk matters in 2017. any themes arising in relation to audit recommendations: and On behalf of the Committee the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address them.
We considered the adequacy of managements response to matters raised by Corporate Audit and monitored the implementation of all recommendations made.
The Groups risk profile is constantly changing.
As a crucial part of the Groups four lines of defence, we need to ensure that Corporate Audits remit remains fit for purpose and that it is operating at the highest levels of quality and effectiveness.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page Following a tender process in 2016, PwC was selected to undertake Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee an external effectiveness evaluation of the function.
The evaluation 27 February 2017 confirmed that Corporate Audit was independent and objective, and remained an effective element of the Groups corporate governance framework.
Opportunities for development included further alignment of Corporate Audits work with other sources of assurance and an assessment of how technology can be leveraged to deliver more insight and efficiency.
These are key areas of focus for Corporate Audit in 2017 and part of the continued development of the Groups internal assurance programme.
Employee disclosure GKN operates a Group-wide international employee disclosure hotline.
Run by an external and independent third party, the hotline enables employees to make anonymously if preferred confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters reported are investigated and escalated to the Committee as appropriate, and statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
Other matters During the year we: reviewed progress against the Groups IT security plan: reviewed the integration of Fokker and the transition to GKN compliance standards: and received updates from divisional finance directors on matters relevant to their divisions.
Advice provided to the Committee The Committee has independent access to the services of the Company Secretary, Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary in the performance of its duties.
80 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
