82 GSK Annual Report 2016 Our Board Board composition Gender diversity Board As at date of publication As at 1 April 2017 69% 64% Male Male Sir Philip Hampton 63 Sir Andrew Witty 52 Female Female 31% 36% Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive officer N Executive As at date of publication As at 1 April 2017 Nationality Nationality Male 80% Male 67% British British Appointed Appointed Female 20% Female 33% 1 January 2015.
Chief Executive from 1 April 2015 and Non-Executive officer from 21 May 2008.
Sir Non-Executive Chairman from 7 May 2015 Andrew is retiring from the Board on 31 March 2017.
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2017 Skills and experience Male 62% Male 62% Prior to joining GSK, Sir Philip Skills and experience chaired major FTSE 100 companies, Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985.
Female 38% Female 38% including The Royal Bank of He has worked in the UK, South Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury Africa, the US and Singapore in plc.
He has also served as Group various senior roles.
In 2003, he was Tenure Non-Executive Finance Director at Lloyds TSB appointed President of Europe and Group, BT Group plc, BG Group joined GSKs Corporate Executive As at 1 April 2017 plc, British Gas plc and British Team.
Sir Philip was previously numerous advisory roles to appointed an Executive Director Governments around the world, 2.
3-6 years 25% of Lazards and a Non-Executive including South Africa, Singapore, 3.
7-9 years 0% Director at RMC Group Plc and Guangzhou China and the UK, 4.
Until 2009, he was where he was a member of the Prime 2 Chairman of UK Financial Ministers Business Advisory Group Investments Limited, which manages from 2010-2015.
He was awarded the UK Governments shareholdings a Knighthood for services to the in banks.
economy and to the UK Composition pharmaceutical industry in the As at 1 April 2017 External appointments 2012 New Year Honours List.
1 Sir Philip is currently the Senior 1.
Executive 27% Independent Director of Anglo External appointments 2.
Non-Executive 73% American Plc, Chairman of its Sir Andrew is a UK Business Remuneration Committee and Ambassador and serves on the member of its Audit Committee.
China-Britain Business Council 2 Sir Philip is also Chair of the Advisory Council and the EDB Hampton-Alexander Review International Advisory Committee, on FTSE Women Leaders, an Singapore.
Sir Andrew is also independent review on improving Co-Chair of a UK EU Life Sciences gender balance in FTSE leadership.
Steering Group to advise the UK International experience Government on life science priorities As at 1 April 2017 in the context of the UK leaving the EU, Visiting Professor to the Institute of Global Health Innovation at Imperial College, London, and Global US Europe EMAP Chancellor of the University of 73% 100% 91% 64% Nottingham.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations A Audit & Risk R Remuneration C Corporate Responsibility S Science 83 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Emma Walmsley 47 Simon Dingemans 53 Dr Moncef Slaoui 57 Dr Patrick Vallance 56 CEO Designate Chief Financial officer Chairman, Global Vaccines President, R&D Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality British British Moroccan, Belgian & American British Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed 1 January 2017.
Moncef is retiring from 1 January 2017 officer from 1 April 2017 officer from 1 April 2011 the Board on 31 March 2017.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Patrick joined GSK in 2006 as Emma joined GSK in 2010 with Prior to joining GSK, Simon had Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in Head of Drug Discovery and was responsibility for Consumer over 25 years of experience in 1988 where he engineered the subsequently appointed Senior Healthcare, Europe and was investment banking at SG Warburg development of a robust vaccines Vice President, Medicines Discovery subsequently appointed President and Goldman Sachs.
He then led Worldwide and Development.
He has been of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer GSK for over a decade before his Business Development for a member of GSKs Corporate Healthcare.
She has been a member appointment and was closely pharmaceutical products before his Executive Team since 2010 of GSKs Corporate Executive Team involved in a number of GSKs appointment to lead R&D in 2006. and was appointed President, since 2011 and, in 2015, was key strategic projects.
He was given overall responsibility Pharmaceuticals R&D in January appointed CEO of GSK Consumer for GSKs Oncology Business in 2012.
Patrick joined the GSK External appointments Healthcare, a joint venture between 2010: for GSK Vaccines in 2011: Board on 1 January 2017.
Simon is Deputy Chairman of the GSK and Novartis.
Emma joined the and for all Global Franchises in 2012.
Prior to joining GSK, Patrick was a 100 Group of Finance Directors, GSK Board on 1 January 2017 and Moncef is Chairman of the Board of clinical academic and, as Professor having been Chairman from 2014 will formally succeed Sir Andrew Directors of Galvani Bioelectronics, of Medicine, led the Division of to early 2017.
Witty as GSK CEO when he retires the company launched in November Medicine at University College on 31 March 2017.
2016 that GSK jointly owns with London.
He has over 20 years Verily Life Sciences.
Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked experience of research clinical with LOreal for 17 years where she Moncef has advised the US medicine, general internal medicine, held a variety of marketing and Presidents Council of Advisors cardiovascular medicine and clinical general management roles in Paris, on Science and Technology, was a pharmacology.
He was elected to London and New York.
From 2007, member of the Board of the Agency the Academy of Medical Sciences she was based in Shanghai as for Science, Technology & Research in 1999.
General Manager, Consumer A STAR until January 2011, the External appointments Products for LOreal China.
Emma PhRMA Foundation Board from Patrick is a Non-Executive Director was a Non-Executive Director of 2008 to 2016 and the Advisory of Genome Research Limited and Diageo plc from 1 January to 21 Committee to the Director of UK Biobank.
She holds an MA National Institutes of Health from in Classics and Modern Languages 2011 to 2016. from Oxford University.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Universit External appointments Libre fide Bruxelles and has published None more than 100 scientific papers and presentations.
Prior to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of Immunology at the University of Mons, Belgium.
External appointments Moncef is a member of the Biotechnology Industry Organization Board in the US.
He is also an adviser to the Qatar Foundation, and a member of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute scientific Advisory Committee.
Moncef serves as a Non-Executive Director for the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative IAVI and is a member of the Board of Artizan Biosciences Inc. 84 GSK Annual Report 2016 Our Board continued Manvinder Singh Vindi Banga 62 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 69 Dr Vivienne Cox 57 Lynn Elsenhans 60 Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director & scientific Expert Director Director N A R N C S R C C N A Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British British American Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed 1 September 2015 and as Senior 1 October 2007 1 July 2016 1 July 2012 Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience from 5 May 2016 Professor Sir Roy is a worldVivienne has wide experience of Lynn has a wealth of experience Skills and experience renowned medical scientist with business gained in the energy, of running a global business and Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent advanced knowledge of infectious natural resources and publishing significant knowledge of the global 33 years at Unilever plc, where his disease epidemiology, and is sectors.
She also has a deep markets in which GSK operates.
She last role amongst several senior currently Professor of Infectious understanding of regulatory and served as Chair, President and Chief positions was President of the Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, government relationships.
She Executive officer of Sunoco Inc.
Global Foods, Home and Personal Imperial College, London.
He is worked for BP plc for 28 years, from 2009 to 2012.
Prior to joining Care businesses, and he was a a Fellow of the Royal Society, the in Britain and Continental Europe, Sunoco in 2008 as President and member of the Unilever Executive Academy of Medical Sciences and in posts including Executive Vice Chief Executive officer, Lynn worked Board.
Vindi sat on the Prime the Royal Statistical Society.
He is President and Chief Executive of for Royal Dutch Shell, which she Minister of Indias Council of Trade an Honorary Fellow of the Institute BPs gas, power and renewable joined in 1980, and where she held & Industry from 2004 to 2014, of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate business and its alternative energy a number of senior roles, including and was on the Board of Governors Member of the National Academy unit.
Vivienne was previously a Executive Vice President, Global of the Indian Institute of Management of Medicine at the US National Non-Executive Director of BG Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
Vindi is also the Academy of Sciences and the French Group plc and Rio Tinto plc.
External appointments recipient of the Padma Bhushan, Academy of Sciences.
Professor Sir Vivienne was appointed Commander Lynn is a Non-Executive Director one of Indias highest civilian Roy brings scientific expertise to the of the Order of the British Empire in of Baker Hughes Inc. and Flowserve honours.
the 2016 New Year Honours for Corporation, a Director of the Vindi was a Non-Executive Director services to the UK Economy and External appointments Texas Medical Center, and a of Thomson Reuters Corp and a Sustainability.
Professor Sir Roy is a member of Non-Executive Director of The First member of its HR committee.
the International Advisory Board External appointments Tee of Greater Houston.
She is also External appointments of Holdingham Group and he is a Vivienne is Senior Independent a Trustee of the United Way of Vindi is a Partner at private equity member of the Science Advisory Director of Pearson plc, a NonGreater Houston.
investment rm Clayton Dubilier Board of the Natural History Executive Director of Stena & Rice.
He is also Chairman of Museum, London.
He is also a International and Chairman of the the Supervisory Board of Mauser member of the Vaccine International Supervisory Board of Vallourec, Group, Chairman of Kalle GmbH, Advisory Board VACCIAB of AJ a supplier to the energy industry.
Senior Independent Director of Pharma Holding Sdn.
Bhd in She is also Lead Independent Marks & Spencer Group plc and Malaysia, the International Director at the UK Governments a member of its Nominations and Alzheimers Consortium at Harvard Department for International Remuneration Committees.
Vindi University, Boston, and Chairman Development.
is on the Governing Board of the of the scientific Advisory Board Indian School of Business ISB, SAB of the Netherlands Centre Hyderabad, and is a member of the for One Health NCOH.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations A Audit & Risk R Remuneration C Corporate Responsibility S Science 85 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dr Jesse Goodman 65 Judy Lewent 68 Urs Rohner 57 Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director & scientific Expert Director Director S C A N R S R N Nationality Nationality Nationality Other Board members American American Swiss Sir Deryck Maughan was Senior Independent NonAppointed Appointed Appointed Executive Director and a member 1 January 2016 1 April 2011 1 January 2015 of the Nominations, Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience until his retirement from the Dr Goodman previously served in Judy has extensive knowledge of the Urs has a broad range of business Board on 5 May 2016. senior leadership positions at the global pharmaceutical industry and and legal experience having served Dr Stephanie Burns was an US Food and Drug Administration of corporate finance, having joined as Chairman on a number of Boards, Independent Non-Executive FDA, including most recently as the Merck & Co in 1980 and then served most recently for Credit Suisse, Director and a member of the FDAs Chief Scientist and previously as Chief Financial officer from 1990 a world-leading financial services Remuneration and Corporate as Deputy Commissioner for to 2007 when she retired.
Prior to joining Credit Responsibility Committees until Science and Public Health and as previously a Non-Executive Director Suisse in 2004, Urs served as her retirement from the Board Director of the Center for Biologics of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Chairman of the Executive Board on 5 May 2016.
Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and CEO of ProSieben and and certain Mundipharma ProSiebenSat.
This Dr Daniel Podolsky was an Dr Goodman played a leadership International Limited companies followed a number of years in private Independent Non-Executive role in developing the FDAs until 31 December 2014.
Judy practice at major law rms in Director and a member of the Regulatory Science and Medical previously served as a NonSwitzerland and the US, having been Audit & Risk and Corporate Countermeasures Initiatives and has Executive Director of Dell Inc. admitted to the bars of the canton of Responsibility Committees until worked collaboratively with industry, Quaker Oats Company and Zurich in 1986 and the state of New his retirement from the Board academia, government and global Motorola Inc. York in 1990. on 5 May 2016. public health and regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major The Board has determined that Hans Wijers was an External appointments public health threats, including Judy has recent and relevant Independent Non-Executive Urs is currently Chairman of the emerging infectious diseases, financial experience, and agreed Director and a member of the Board of Credit Suisse Group disasters and terrorism.
He led the that she has the appropriate Remuneration and Corporate AG and of the Chairmans and FDAs response to West Nile Virus qualications and background to be Responsibility Committees until Governance Committee.
He is and to the 2009 H1N1 inuenza an audit committee financial expert.
his retirement from the Board also Chairman and member of the pandemic and served on the Senior on 5 May 2016.
Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse External appointments Leadership Team for the 2010 White Research Institute and Credit Suisse Stacey Cartwright was an Judy is a Non-Executive Director of House Medical Countermeasure Foundation.
Urs was appointed Independent Non-Executive Thermo Fisher scientific Inc and Review.
Dr Goodman brings Vice-Chairman of the Governing Director and a member of the Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also scientific and public health expertise Board of the Swiss Bankers Audit & Risk Committee until a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family to the Boards deliberations.
Association in 2015. her retirement from the Board Trust and Chairperson of the Audit on 31 December 2016.
External appointments Committee of Rockefeller Financial Dr Goodman, currently Professor of Services, a life member of the Medicine at Georgetown University, Massachusetts Institute of directs the Georgetown University Technology Corporation and a Center on Medical Product Access, member of the American Academy Safety and Stewardship of Arts and Sciences.
COMPASS and is an active clinician who serves as Attending Physician in Infectious Diseases.
He also serves as President and Member of the Board of the United States Pharmacopeia USP and as a member of the scientific Advisory Board SAB of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations CEPI.
