94 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Leadership and effectiveness continued Nominations Committee Report Dear shareholder Philip Hampton 2016 was a busy year for the Committee.
Nominations Committee Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, indicated in March 2016, his intention Chairman to retire from the Board in early 2017, after nearly 10 years as CEO and almost 32 years with GSK.
Our principal focus for 2016 then became the CEO succession process and related executive management succession planning.
CEO and executive management succession The Committee has for some years annually scrutinised the robustness of succession planning arrangements for the Executive Role Directors and each executive management role.
The annual review The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board: of Talent and Leadership Strategy has been a key and regular item of the structure, size and composition of the Board and Board and Committee discussion and oversight.
The overall aim of the appointment of Directors, members to the Board this process is for the Board and Committee to seek assurance that Committees and the CET there is a continuous and adequate supply of high-quality internal succession to the Board and the CET.
candidates to potentially step up to the Board and CET as required.
Membership The Committee engaged Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry, who Committee members Committee member since specialise in the recruitment of high calibre Board directors.
Using Philip Hampton 27 January 2015 both rms ensured that the review process could be truly global Chairman and no companies were inaccessible.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 The Committee, with full participation of all the Non-Executive Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 Directors, then spent time considering the future strategic direction Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 of the company and, with input from the executive recruitment rms, Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 compiled a CEO role prole.
The prole contained a brief of the Urs Rohner 1 January 2017 requirements and the desired skill-set that a potential successor Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 to 5 May 2016 to Sir Andrew would need.
This brief was drafted to emphasise the importance that the Board and Committee placed on the CEO Details of the Committee members skills and experience being a great business leader and team builder.
are given in their biographies under Our Board on pages The executive recruitment rms then initiated global searches 84 to 85.
See page 88 for Committee member attendance against this agreed prole across all large global pharmaceutical and levels.
This yielded a pool of internal and external The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and candidates which was reduced to a shortlist of potential candidates.
Other attendees at Committee meetings The rms reported regularly to the Committee as the process may include: progressed.
The shortlisted internal and external candidates then met with key Regular Attends as Attendees attendee required Board members first and were subjected to interviews, continuous assessments and reviews over an extended period.
Each NonChief Executive officer Executive Director then met each shortlisted candidate at least once.
Head of Human Resources Appropriate external advisers This culminated in one-to-one discussions between me and each of our Non-Executive Directors to seek their views on the candidates.
I was very pleased that each Non-Executive Director made it clear that they considered that the right candidate to succeed Sir Andrew was Emma Walmsley, CEO of GSKs Consumer Healthcare division.
The Committee then met to agree a proposal for the Board to recommend Emmas appointment as CEO Designate.
The recommendation received unanimous Board approval and on 20 September 2016 it was announced that Emma would join the Board as an Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2017 and would become CEO with effect from 1 April 2017.
95 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Nominations Committee Report continued The Committee was well-positioned to appoint Emmas successor New Non-Executive Director appointment and Brian McNamara, Head of Americas and Europe for GSK During 2016, in addition to the search for two new Executive Consumer Healthcare, succeeded her at the end of September Directors and a US-based SME, the Committee searched for 2016.
Brian became a CET member with immediate effect.
He joined another Non-Executive Director.
Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry were GSK in March 2015 after the completion of the Novartis transaction.
engaged to conduct the search, which used broad selection criteria, and dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees were considered Since 1 October, Emma has focused her attention completely on by the Committee.
Candidates were shortlisted for interview on merit, her transition into the role of GSKs next CEO.
Details of her after assessing their relevant qualications and time commitments.
transition and induction arrangements can be found on page 91.
After interviewing selected candidates, the Committee was pleased During the year, the Committee also conducted a search and to recommend to the Board Dr Vivienne Cox as a Non-Executive appointment process for a new Executive Director when Dr Moncef Director.
She was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July Slaoui, our Chairman, Global Vaccines, indicated in June 2016 his 2016.
The Board considered that her many years of international intention to retire from the company in 2017 after over 10 years on business experience in global manufacturing organisations with the Board and 28 years with GSK.
Moncef will step down from the challenging technologies would bring fresh insights to the Boards Board on 31 March 2017 and will retire from the company on 30 deliberations.
Board appointments and retirements The Committee recommended Dr Patrick Vallances appointment The ongoing refreshment of the Board has led to the following to the Board and on 19 December the Board approved Patricks planned changes.
He joined the Board as an Executive Director on Director Appointment date Retirement date 1 January 2017.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 January 2016 In addition, Luc Debruyne, our President, Global Vaccines, Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016 since 2013, was appointed a CET member in September 2016 in Emma Walmsley 1 January 2017 anticipation of Dr Slaouis retirement from the CET in December Dr Patrick Vallance 1 January 2017 2016.
Stephanie Burns 5 May 2016 Luke Miels has been appointed President, Global Pharmaceuticals Sir Deryck Maughan 5 May 2016 and will join GSK and the CET later this year from AstraZeneca Dr Daniel Podolsky 5 May 2016 where he was Executive Vice President of their European business.
Hans Wijers 5 May 2016 Abbas Hussain, President, Global Pharmaceuticals has decided to Stacey Cartwright 31 December 2016 leave the company after serving nine years on the CET, and he has Sir Andrew Witty 31 March 2017 agreed that he will leave GSK later this year.
Dr Moncef Slaoui 31 March 2017 Enhancing the Boards scientific capabilities The Boards scientific capabilities have recently been refreshed with Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry provide recruitment consultancy the appointment of Dr Jesse Goodman, the former Chief Scientist for services to the Committee, in addition to recruitment and HR the US FDA, who was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016.
He services which they provide to the company.
succeeded Dr Daniel Podolsky, who retired as planned, after 9 years of service at our AGM in May 2016, as our designated US-based scientific and Medical Expert SME.
The Committee is currently seeking to further enhance the Boards science capabilities by engaging Korn Ferry to conduct a global search for a further Non-Executive Director as an SME.
In addition, a new wholly independent Board Committee, the Science Committee, was established in December 2016 to provide oversight of GSKs R&D pipeline and scientific research strategy.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the Science Committee be chaired by Dr Jesse Goodman.
Other Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Science Committee included our UK-based SME, Professor Sir Roy Anderson, and Judy Lewent.
The SME currently being recruited will also be appointed to the Science Committee.
In light of this new Board Committee and to ensure effective continuity, Professor Sir Roy Anderson, who joined the Board in 2007, has agreed to stand for re-election by shareholders before stepping down from the Board at the 2018 AGM.
The Board has confirmed that Professor Sir Roy continues to demonstrate the characteristics of independence in carrying out his role on the Board.
96 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Leadership and effectiveness continued Nominations Committee Report continued Board Committee Chairman and membership changes During the year, the Committee approved the following changes to the membership of our Board Committees.
Director Committee membership Appointment date Retirement date Vindi Banga Nominations, Audit & Risk and Remuneration 1 January 2016 Committees member Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Jesse Goodman Corporate Responsibility Committee members 1 May 2016 Dr Vivienne Cox Corporate Responsibility Committee member 1 July 2016 Dr Jesse Goodman Science Committee Chairman 1 January 2017 Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Judy Lewent Science Committee members 1 January 2017 Dr Vivienne Cox Remuneration Committee member 1 January 2017 Urs Rohner Nominations Committee member 1 January 2017 Stephanie Burns Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 5 May 2016 Committees member Sir Deryck Maughan Nominations, Audit & Risk and Remuneration 5 May 2016 Committees member Dr Daniel Podolsky Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 5 May 2016 Committees member Hans Wijers Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 5 May 2016 Committees member Stacey Cartwright Audit & Risk Committee member 31 December 2016 Board composition and diversity The representation of women in management positions at GSK is The Committee has sought to balance the composition of the Board illustrated on page 49 as part of the gender diversity of GSKs global and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so workforce and alongside initiatives to promote diversity and inclusion that it can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors throughout the organisation.
We also support the engagement of and benefit from new external perspectives and insights which executive search rms such as Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry who more recent appointees can bring to the Boards deliberations.
have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including pharmaceuticals and R&D, vaccines, We have also noted the recommendation set out in the Parker consumer products and healthcare, medical research and academia Review Committees report Beyond One by 21, published in and financial services, and have a wealth of experience of complex November 2016, that each FTSE 100 board should have least one organisations with global reach.
The majority of our Board have a director of colour by 2021 and have adjusted our diversity policy scientific or mathematical background and are attuned to the industry accordingly to reect this new target.
Committee evaluation We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom just as GSK The Committees annual evaluation was internally facilitated by the is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all levels Company Secretary on behalf of the Committee Chairman, and of the organisation.
The Board and management seek to encourage supplemented by a questionnaire circulated to Committee members.
a diverse and inclusive culture throughout GSK.
It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and It was agreed for 2017 that the Committee would seek to identify independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge each another experienced scientific and Medical Expert and additional other and work as a team.
This needs to be backed by a diversity of consideration would be given on an ongoing basis to performance personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement, and succession planning for the CET and top talent and GSKs honesty and courage.
The Committee would continue to plan for Non-Executive Director retirements based on the evolution of The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives Group strategy.
to support the implementation of the Boards diversity policy, including gender, and monitoring progress towards the achievement of these objectives.
Our diversity policy is in line with Lord Davies new voluntary target of at least 33% female Board level Philip Hampton representation by 2020.
We currently have 31% women on our Nominations Committee Chairman Board and 14% on our Corporate Executive Team.
Closing this gap between Board and CET gender representation and further 13 March 2017 increasing the pipeline of female direct reports to the CET is a particular area of attention.
Female pipeline development was also a central theme of my review, together with Dame Alexander, across the FTSE 350, which is continuing and developing the valuable work that Lord Davies initiated in 2011.
