86 GSK Annual Report 2016 Our Corporate Executive Team 1 David Redfern Claire Thomas 2 Chief Strategy officer Senior Vice President, Human Resources David joined CET as Chief Strategy officer Claire was appointed to CET as Senior Vice in 2008 and is responsible for corporate President, Human Resources in 2008. development and strategic planning.
He Claire joined the company in 1996 as Senior was appointed Chairman of the Board of Manager, Human Resources, Sales and ViiV Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011 and a Marketing Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before Non-Executive Director of Aspen becoming Director of Human Resources for Pharmacare Ltd. UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
She was appointed 3 Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Northern Europe with responsibility for GSKs Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, and Senior Vice pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, President, Human Resources, Pharmaceuticals prior to that, was Senior Vice President for International in 2006.
David joined Prior to GSK, she worked for Ford Motor GSK in 1994.
Company, holding various positions in Human David has a Bachelor of Science degree Resources.
from Bristol University in the UK and is a Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree in Chartered Accountant.
Economics, Management and Industrial Relations 4 from the University of Wales.
Sir Andrew Witty Chief Executive officer 2.
Simon Dingemans Abbas Hussain Dan Troy Chief Financial officer President, Global Pharmaceuticals Senior Vice President & General Counsel 4.
Patrick Vallance President, R&D Abbas joined CET in 2008 and was appointed Dan joined GSK and CET as Senior Vice President, Global Pharmaceuticals in 2014, President & General Counsel in 2008.
For biographical details, see pages 82 having joined the company as President, Emerging He was previously a Partner at the Washington and 83.
He joined the law rm Sidley Austin LLP, where he principally ViiVHealthcare Ltd Board in October 2009. represented pharmaceutical companies and trade Previously, he spent 20 years at Eli Lilly where associations on matters related to the US Food he held positions including President, Europe.
and Drug Administration FDA and government He also worked for Eli Lilly in Australia, the US, regulations.
Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for India, Turkey and Germany in several roles, the FDA.
including business development, sales and Dan holds a B. S. in Industrial and Labor Relations marketing, and management.
from Cornell University and a J. D. from Columbia He has a degree in Medicinal Chemistry & University School of Law.
He chairs the US Pharmacology from Loughborough University Chamber of Commerce Litigation Center.
and was born in Madras, India.
In January 2017, GSK announced Abbas decision to leave the company later in the year.
87 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Phil Thomson Roger Connor Nick Hirons Senior Vice President, Communications President, Global Manufacturing Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and Government Affairs & Supply and Compliance Phil joined CET in 2011 and was appointed Roger joined CET in 2012 and was appointed Nick was appointed to CET in 2014 as Senior Senior Vice President, Communications and President, Global Manufacturing & Supply GMS Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance, Government Affairs in 2014.
He has responsibility in 2013, after working for a year as President responsible for compliance, risk management for Media Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate Designate, GMS.
Roger joined GSK in 1998 and corporate security and investigations.
Responsibility, Internal Communications, Product from AstraZeneca and worked in a number of Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International Communications, Government Affairs and GSKs finance and manufacturing strategy roles.
He was later Head of Audit & Assurance, Global Brand and Community Partnerships.
Prior to his current position, he was Vice where he combined five audit functions into an President, Ofce of the CEO and Corporate He joined the company as a commercial trainee independent team with a common risk-based Strategy, from February 2010. in 1996, moving from pharmaceutical brand methodology.
In 2013, Nick relocated to China marketing to product communications.
In 1999, He holds a degree in Mechanical and to establish a governance model for our China he became Director of Media Relations and was Manufacturing Engineering from Queens business that created a consistent approach then Director, Investor Relations from 2001 to University Belfast and a Masters in to compliance.
2004, when he returned to Corporate Media Manufacturing Leadership from Cambridge Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Relations as Vice President.
He is also a Chartered Accountant.
In July 2016, he became a Co-Opted Member of the China-Britain Business Council.
Phil earned his degree in English and History from Durham University.
Luc Debruyne Brian McNamara President, Global Vaccines CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare Luc joined CET in 2016 as President, Global Brian joined CET in 2016, when he was appointed Further information Vaccines, a role he has held since 2013.
He joined CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare.
Brian joined During the year Dr Moncef Slaoui GSK in 1991 and worked as a commercial GSK in March 2015 as Head of Europe and was a member of CET and stood down strategy director in R&D, before leading the Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare, on 31December 2016 see page 83.
European Commercial Centre of Excellence in following the creation of a joint venture between 2005.
In 2006, Luc became General Manager of GSK and Novartis.
Previously, he was head of In January 2017, Luke Miels was appointed the Netherlands and then in 2010 Senior Vice Novartiss OTC division.
Brian began his career President, Global Pharmaceuticals: his start President and General Manager in Italy.
He is a board member of date with GSK is to be confirmed.
he was appointed Senior Vice President, Pharma the World Self-Medication Industry Association.
Europe, prior to his current role.
Luc is a member He earned an undergraduate degree in Electrical of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Engineering from Union College in New York Manufacturers & Associations IFPMA Vaccines and an MBA in Finance from the University of CEO Roundtable, as well as the Management Cincinnati.
Committee of the Belgian Federation of Enterprises.
He holds a Masters degree in Physical Education from University of Leuven.
