97 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Accountability Audit & Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholder Judy Lewent In the following pages of this report, we aim to share insights into Audit & Risk Committee the activities undertaken or overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee Chairman the Committee during the year.
The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities.
I devise this programme with the Company Secretary and agree its content with management and the external auditors at the start of each year.
It is then adapted as appropriate as the year progresses.
Running and concluding a successful tender of the external audit contract was a significant undertaking for the Committee, supported Role by management, during the year.
This exercise, together with the The Committee reviews and is responsible for: Committees scrutiny of further enhancements and simplications financial and internal reporting processes to our internal control, risk management and financial reporting the integrity of the financial statements, including the systems and processes, is covered below.
Annual Report and quarterly results announcements External auditors the system of internal controls Conclusion of audit tender: Last year, we advised shareholders identication and management of risks and external and that the Committee was putting the external audit contract out to a internal audit processes competitive tender process, which the Committee initiated in July.
initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment The process was concluded in December 2016 when the Board of external auditors, their remuneration and oversight of appointed the Committees preferred choice of Deloitte LLP their work.
Deloitte as the companys new auditors.
Our current external Membership auditor,  LLP PwC, was not invited to Committee members Committee member since participate in the tender due to the prevailing rules on audit rm rotation.
They will continue in ofce during 2017.
Subject to their Judy Lewent 1 April 2011 reappointment by shareholders at our 2017 AGM, they will retire after Chairman completing the 2017 audit.
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 From GSKs 2018 financial year onwards, Deloitte will be appointed in PwCs place, subject to shareholder approval.
We wish to thank Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 to 31 December 2016 each rm that participated in the tender for the professionalism and Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 to 5 May 2016 commitment they demonstrated through the process.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 to 5 May 2016 A full report on the key steps, governance arrangements and outputs Details of the Committee members financial, accounting from the audit tender process is given on page 102.
The Committees or scientific experience and expertise are given in their judgement was that Deloitte was best placed to succeed PwC and biographies under Our Board on pages 84 to 85.
See deliver a high quality audit for GSK.
page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.
The Committee is currently overseeing the transition from PwC to The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and Deloitte to ensure that: attends all meetings.
The entire Board is invited to attend the PwC continues to discharge its auditing responsibilities effectively Committee meetings and other attendees include: to the end of its time in ofce: and Regular Attends as Deloitte takes the necessary steps to ensure that it is independent Attendee attendee required of GSK by the time it begins to observe PwC at an appropriate General Counsel juncture in 2017.
Financial Controller I look forward to reporting to shareholders on discharging the Head of Audit & Assurance activities associated with this transition in GSKs 2017 Annual Head of Global Ethics and Compliance Report.
Chief Medical officer Chief Product Quality officer External auditor In accordance with the FRCs Code, the Board has determined that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has also agreed that Judy Lewent has the appropriate qualications and background to be an audit committee financial expert as dened by the US SarbanesOxley Act of 2002, and has determined that she is independent within the meaning of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition, Judy Lewent and Vindi Banga are also members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide input on the Committees review of the Groups performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.
98 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Accountability continued Audit & Risk Committee Report continued The Financial Reporting Council Audit Quality Review: SEC settlement: In 2016, GSK entered into a settlement with the The Committees confidence in the external auditors delivery of US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in relation to its a high quality and effective audit for GSK was reinforced by the inquiry into past sales and marketing practices in China.
Under this outcome of the FRCs Audit Quality Review teams the AQR review settlement, the company has obligations to provide the SEC with of PwCs audit of GSKs 2015 financial statements.
The GSK audit information on the framework and evolution of our ongoing ABAC was selected as part of the AQRs annual inspection of the audit programme for monitoring purposes.
The Committee reviews and quality of the largest audit rms in the UK.
The Committee discussed considers updates before they are provided to the SEC, as agreed the results and outcome of the review.
The AQRs findings under the settlement.
corroborated the results of the Committees own independent InfoProtect: To reect a fast evolving landscape and its potential evaluation of PwC, which concluded that the external auditor was impacts on this key enterprise risk, our multi-year InfoProtect effective.
The Committee received a report from PwC detailing how programme was refreshed in 2016.
Heightened attention is being the 2016 audit would address the small number of findings identied paid to those areas of our business that have the highest risk by the AQR team and was satisfied with PwCs planned response.
Improvements have been prioritised for delivery to achieve Competition and Markets Authority compliance statement: the greatest risk reduction and improve the maturity of our information The Committee considers that, during 2016, the company has security and privacy processes.
Our Chief Information Security complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee officer CISO and our CFO who has Board-level responsibility for responsibility provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority this enterprise risk continue to ensure our cyber security defences Statutory Audit Services Order 2014.
This report describes the work remain strong and effective.
The CFO and CISO brief the Committee of the Committee in discharging these responsibilities.
Pre-approval of non-audit services: The Committee reviewed and Enhanced governance around reporting: The Committee and Risk discussed adapting the companys approach to its existing non-audit Oversight & Compliance Council ROCC receive internal control services policy, to comply with new requirements set out in the FRCs and risk management reports throughout the year.
These are based revised Ethical Standards and the implementation of the EU Audit on their respective governance responsibilities within the wider Regulation for GSKs 2017 financial year.
In particular, we agreed organisational internal risk governance framework.
The efficiency changes to our non-audit services pre-approval process in line with and quality of this upward reporting mechanism is crucial in assisting the new restrictions on auditors supplying non-audit services to UK the Committee in properly monitoring GSKs internal framework for listed companies.
These changes are outlined on page 104. control and risk management.
During 2016, the Global Risk Ofce has implemented the following Committee and ROCC reporting Internal framework for control and risk management improvements into business units and across our risk enterprise developments exposures.
This is a core discipline for the Committee.
In 2016, the following developments in the business units and across the enterprise in the The Committee reporting schedules have been improved so that risk areas of communication, reporting, training and analytics helped management reports from the business units are presented to the strengthen our culture of compliance and risk management.
ROCC after they have been submitted to the Committee.
This means that the Committees feedback can be properly incorporated into Anti Bribery And Corruption ABAC and Third Party Oversight managements deliberations at the ROCC.
In addition, our business TPO programmes: These are a high priority for the Committee and units now provide six monthly updates to the ROCC that concentrate it has overseen the following areas of progress made during the year: on progress against their top three risk management commitments.
ABAC Global Risk Assessment: This new programme was This simplication has helped foster a more focused discussion at launched to signicantly enhance the way our ABAC risk is the ROCC on each business units risk management priorities.
identied and prioritised across the Group.
Existing ABAC data To help the Committee improve its understanding of our enterprise has been centrally pooled by our Global Risk Ofce to help how risk strategies, GSKs enterprise risk owners are encouraged to our ABAC risk exposure is measured.
This has enabled provide commentary on the organisations risk tolerance in respect management to target risk mitigation techniques on the companys of the specic risk they are responsible for mitigating.
In addition, highest risk activities, business units and regions.
the development of risk performance dashboards for ABAC, TPO programme: This provides a standard framework which Product Quality and Research Practices, has further enhanced the governs all third party relationships and has moved from design Committees ability to understand and monitor our risk exposure to deployment phase.
This supplier assessment programme levels on an ongoing basis.
operates in a large majority of our Latin America and South East Compliance activities Asia markets.
It is applied across our range of third parties and is Building trust by embedding our Values: Our Global Ethics & used in particular to assess suppliers deemed by GSK to be high Compliance GEC function continues to embed its Living our risk.
Risk levels and corrective and preventative action tracking are Values and Building Trust strategy to help motivate employees to put now managed via an easy-to-use reporting system by our the companys core values at the heart of every decision they make.
employees who are enrolled in this programme.
In particular, GEC deployed enterprise-wide training for employees During 2017, the TPO programme is expected to cover our to coincide with the release in April 2016 of GSKs updated Code global operations.
This will ensure continued risk management of Conduct.
This is at the heart of our compliance programme and improvements in respect of our third party relationships, focuses on GSKs core values of Patient Focus and Integrity, embedding a basic TPO capability into our Supplier Lifecycle Respect for People and Transparency.
Management software and introducing further buying experience simplications.
99 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Audit & Risk Committee Report continued In addition to delivering training to our employees across the Global reporting system platforms enterprise, GEC has also introduced the following training tools The Committee was pleased to oversee significant progress being specifically aimed at team leaders to help reinforce values based made in moving towards more standardised, global systems which conduct in their teams: support our end-to-end processes.
Management continued to deploy upgrades as planned, with a major system deployment Leader Led Discussion toolkit: This has been launched to enable completed during the first half of 2016 to schedule and on budget.
leaders and teams to have meaningful discussions on the The remaining deployments under this multi-year programme are importance of GSKs values and right first time culture.
These being completed during 2017 and early 2018, with an increasing discussions are informal and short in length, provide opportunities focus on capturing the benefits that these new standardised systems to explore GSKs values and for leaders and their teams to think and processes generate for GSK.
about what quality means in their part of the companys business.
The toolkits use a combination of external events and research My role such as academic studies around why good employees can Finally, my role as Chair of the Committee continues to be busy and sometimes make poor decisions.
During the year, I had significant interactions with key senior executives and our auditors, and attended a range of management Values Maturity Assessment: This is a leadership team selfmeetings, including those of the ROCC, Consumer Healthcare, assessment tool which allows teams to assess how well values Finance GEC and Global Manufacturing & Supply leadership teams.
are embedded into the business and establishes a values I also led the audit tender process and met the bidding firms audit improvement plan based on the outcome of the assessment.
partners and teams to familiarise myself with their qualities and During 2016, Values Maturity Assessments VMA were capabilities and to gain an impression of what it could be like to undertaken by GEC across a third of GSKs business units, in line work with them.
with a values objective set by the Corporate Executive Team.
This VMA roll out is continuing in 2017 across all our business units.
Along with my Board colleagues, I was pleased to visit our manufacturing and R&D facilities in Siena, Italy that had been GM certifications: The General Manager GM confirmation process acquired as part of the Novartis transaction in 2015.
We met local across Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines has continued throughout senior executives and employees and were able to learn at first-hand 2016, requiring GMs to confirm their adherence to GSKs Internal how these facilities, people and processes have been integrated into Control Framework.
A revised confirmation process was launched the wider Group.
I was also pleased to learn how GSKs internal in September 2016.
It focused on specific risk areas, including control and risk management practices have been translated and TPO, Health Care Professional and government official interactions, embedded in the business.
embedding ABAC, and other risks associated with pricing and commercial terms.
In 2016, Consumer Healthcare implemented a On a personal note I would like to acknowledge Sir Andrews similar process for its GMs to confirm the operation of our internal contribution to the company.
He has been a visionary leader driving control framework for key risks and minimum controls.
GSKs values during his term as CEO and he led positive change in established industry ways of working.
I would like to wish him well in Corporate Integrity Agreement: The Committee has oversight of his next endeavours and I very much look forward to working with his the companys responsibilities under a US Corporate Integrity successor, Emma Walmsley, when she succeeds him as CEO from Agreement CIA signed with the US Department of Health and 1 April 2017.
Human Services in 2012, which is now in its final year, although commitments with certain States regarding salesforce compensation extend into 2019.
During 2016, the Committee continued to receive quarterly CIA compliance and assurance updates from the Head of Judy Lewent GEC.
It also reviewed and recommended to the Board the adoption Audit & Risk Committee Chairman of the annual resolutions that confirm adherence to the terms of the CIA for inclusion in the certification reports the company provides to 13 March 2017 the appropriate US regulatory authorities each year.
Given the success of the GM confirmation and CIA certification processes so far and because the CIA is due to end in 2017, the Committee is keen to retain the best practice compliance disciplines of the CIA.
As a result it is assessing GECs proposal to roll-out a tailored Business Unit Confirmation that combines the principles of these two processes.
This proposed simplification is designed to provide the Committee with consolidated assurance that our internal control framework requirements are identified and understood, and that any possible gaps are identified and addressed at each of our business units.
100 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Accountability continued What the Committee did during 2016 Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Frequency A Financial reporting Reviewed integrity of draft financial statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumptions A Considered approval process for conrming and recommending that 2015 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable A Reviewed and recommended approval of 2015 Annual Report and Form 20-F A Reviewed and approved Directors expenses Q Reviewed and recommended approval of quarterly and preliminary results announcements and dividends Q Reviewed significant issues in relation to the quarterly and preliminary results A Considered evolving market practice on the Viability Statement requirements P Reviewed and recommended inclusion of the Viability Statement for the 2015 Annual Report P Reviewed accounting developments and their impacts and key accounting issues P Reviewed GAAP vs Non-GAAP reporting Global internal control Reviewed Global Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, R&D, GMS and Consumer Healthcare business unit assurance A & compliance reports Reviewed GSKs internal control framework A confirmed compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act A Reviewed Audit & Assurance work during 2015 and approved the planned work for 2016 A Undertook Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA training A A Undertook new Market Abuse Regulation training Q Received and renewed CIA compliance and assurance reports Q Reviewed reports on the Operational Excellence programme P Reviewed the implementation of new systems for Group Support Functions S Received litigation reports and updates S Received ABAC investigation status reports External auditors Reviewed and approved audit non-audit expenditure incurred during 2015 A Considered the auditors report on the 2015 annual results A Performed evidence-based assessment of external auditors and the effectiveness of 2015 external audit A Considered qualications, expertise and independence of the external auditors A Recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor and for the Committee to agree auditors remuneration A Approved the 2016 audit plan and audit fee proposal and set performance expectations for auditors A Considered initial results of 2016 audit P Reviewed and agreed pre-approval of budget for auditors to provide non-audit services for 2017 Q Undertook a competitive audit tender process and recommended to the Board two audit rms, including a S preferred rm, to be appointed for the audit of the 2018 financial statements Risk Reviewed risk management framework compliance A Reviewed risk elements of Group treasury, pensions, risk and insurance and tax policies A Received status reports on following enterprise risks: ABAC, Commercialisation, Crisis and Continuity, EHSS, P Information Protection, Management and Financial Controls and Reporting, Product Quality and Research Practices Received an update on integration following the Novartis transaction P Received terrorism risk assessment reports P Received update on Brexit implications P Received Risk Oversight Compliance Council meeting updates S Considered emerging risks S Governance and confirmed compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code A other matters Discussed evaluation exercise of Committee, agreed action plan to further improve operation of Committee A Reviewed the Committees terms of reference A Met privately and separately with the Heads of Global Ethics & Compliance and Audit & Assurance A confirmed that the Committees terms of reference had been adhered to during 2016 A P Received corporate governance updates P Reviewed and approved the approach to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 S Met privately with the external auditors at the end of each meeting A Q P S Committee Activity Key Annually Quarterly Periodically Standing 101 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information significant issues relating to the financial statements In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results contained in the 2016 Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 are set out in the following table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate.
In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 149 to 157. significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of managements half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net of the financial statements debt positions and the various nancing facilities and options available to the Group.
Following a review of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed managements approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for and rebates RAR accruals customer returns and rebates.
The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was 2.2 billion at 31 December 2016 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and concurred with managements judgements on the amounts involved.
A fuller description of the process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual necessary is set out in Critical accounting policies on page 76.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external investigations into the Groups legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Groups commercial commercial practices practices.
Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount.
At 31 December 2016, the provision for legal matters was 0.3 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, Other provisions.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with managements judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required.
At 31 December 2016, the Groups balance sheet included a tax payable liability of 1.3 billion.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
The Committee accepted managements judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of 29 million in 2016.
See Note 19 to the financial statements, Other intangible assets for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered managements judgement that following the further improved sales in relation to ViiV Healthcare performance of Tivicay and Triumeq and the significant weakening of Sterling in the latter part of the year, it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
At 31 December 2016, the Groups balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of 5.3 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare.
See Note 39 to the financial statements, Contingent consideration liabilities for more details.
Consumer Healthcare put option The Committee considered managements judgement on the valuation of the liability recognised in respect of Novartis put option over its shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
This included a review of the unwinding impact of the discounting of the liability and the increase in the liability caused by the significant weakening of Sterling in the latter part of the year.
ViiV Healthcare put options The Committee considered the amendments to the ViiV Healthcare Shareholders Agreement made during the year which resulted in the recognition of the put options held by Shionogi and Pzer in Q1 2016 and the subsequent fide-recognition of the Shionogi put option in Q4 2016.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the put options and concurred with managements judgement on the valuation of the Pzer put option of 1,319 million at 31 December 2016.
102 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Accountability continued Audit tendering PwC has been the auditor of the company and the Group since the After a detailed market assessment, a number of audit firms, inception of each in 2000.
Their performance has been reviewed including some firms outside the Big Four, were approached to annually and audit partner rotation requirements have been observed.
Judy Lewent then made the final preselection of Audit Lead Partners before the Request for Proposal As indicated in last years Annual Report, GSK decided to undertake and data room were issued and opened to the bidding firms in July an external audit tender in 2016 with a view to replacing PwC from our 2016.
Site meetings took place at GSK House over three days in 2018 financial year onwards.
This was done in the best interests of our September 2016, which was an opportunity for our finance and shareholders and to comply with the audit firm rotation requirements.
functional leaders to meet with the bidding firms teams face-to-face.
A robust governance structure was implemented, headed by the These meetings, which Judy Lewent oversaw with her ESC Audit & Risk Committee ARC, to manage, support and deliver colleagues, were a means of discussing GSKs audit requirements a successful audit tender process.
with each firm to help them develop their proposals, and to evaluate Judy Lewent chaired the Executive Steering Committee ESC, which their technical knowledge, strengths and weaknesses and get a feel has overseen the audit tender process, evaluated the audit firms and of what it could be like to work with them.
Feedback from GSKs liaised with the ARC.
The other members of the ESC were the CFO, participants was discussed with the Committee and shared with the Group Financial Controller and Company Secretary.
The Group audit partners prior to the submission of their audit tender proposals Financial Controller chaired the Operations Steering Committee, in October 2016. which was made up of finance heads, and coordinated the audit The bidding firms proposals were subject to detailed evaluation tender process and a cross-functional Planning Team has provided with key areas to probe identified for discussion with the audit day-to-day support and advice.
These levels of governance and their partners and their teams at their oral presentations to the Committee purpose are illustrated in last years Annual Report on page 92. and other GSK attendees that took place in November 2016.
All The key objective of the ARC was to deliver a fair, transparent and information from the evaluation stages of the process site meetings, successful audit contract tender process with minimum disruption written proposal submissions and oral presentations were shared to the business.
It endorsed weighted selection criteria and with and discussed by the ARC at the conclusion of the process.
evaluation methodology based on GSKs expectations for the This enabled the ARC to recommend to the Board the appointment external auditors.
These were equally divided into Audit Quality of Deloitte as the preferred new auditor from two shortlisted bidding and Service and Audit Team Capability and Competence.
firms, a recommendation which the Board subsequently endorsed.
In addition, five critical success factors were prioritised and guided GSK has now entered the transition phase of the process leading the Committee and the Board in making their final recommendation up to Deloitte taking on the external audit contract with effect from and decision which comprised: 1 January 2018 and an update on these activities will be disclosed in our 2017 Annual Report.
Audit Approach and Strategy: High Quality Independent Audit: Effective Partnership: Risk in Transitioning Auditors in and out: and Value for Money 2016 External Audit Tender Process Governance oversight and key steps Pre-Tender Evaluation Decision making Key steps Invitation to RFP issued Site Written Oral ARC Board Participate and and Data Meetings Proposals Presentations Recommendation Decision Interview of Lead Room Evaluation to ARC Panel Partners Opened May July September October November December Governance ARC Chair, Executive Executive ARC, Executive ARC and ARC Board CFO and and Operations and Operations and Operations Executive Group Financial Steering Co Steering Co Steering Co Steering Co Controller Outputs Short listing and Knowledge Initial feedback Proposal Debrief and Recommended Successful firm pre-selection building by firms shared with Lead Evaluation and Final Evaluation two firms for appointed with of Lead Partners Partners as input Exam Questions of each firm appointment, with effect from 1 to development For Oral a preference January 2018 of their proposals Presentations expressed for one firm 103 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Auditors appointment Ongoing effectiveness and quality of external audit process The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing basis that GSK receives a high quality and effective audit.
In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditor, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, at the beginning of each years audit.
The activities the Committee typically undertakes each year to satisfy itself of external audit quality and effectiveness, together with their timelines, are set out below.
Auditor appointment Auditor expectations Formal auditor appointment Committee evaluation process setting and audit planning and budget setting Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed: review effectiveness of external agree the performance shareholders vote at AGM on review feedback from Committee auditor against expectations set expectations of the auditor resolutions to appoint auditor members independently as part in previous year for the upcoming audit and determine their remuneration of annual Committee evaluation covering: review auditors independence, review and agree audit plan appropriate level of qualications, for upcoming audit relationship with auditor expertise and resources consider auditors quality control quality of insights they provide consider whether the auditor procedures Committee on their work exhibited appropriate level agree and set statutory audit fee whether they have sufficient of challenge scepticism in access to auditor without receive management feedback their work management on prior years audit process consider whether to initiate or through survey covering: pre-approve budget for non-audit defer an audit contract tender services ideally below 50% of robustness of audit process once satisfied, recommend to statutory audit fee for following quality of delivery, people the Board auditor re-appointment year and service at next AGM January March May December The detailed criteria the Committee uses for judging the effectiveness of the external auditor and their overriding responsibility to deliver a smooth running, thorough and efficiently executed audit are set out below: Performance expectations for GSKs external auditor Specic auditor Discuss approach and areas of focus in advance with early engagement on understanding the implications of GSKs new operating model responsibilities Ensure Sarbanes-Oxley scope and additional procedures are discussed and endorsed by management and communicated on a timely basis within GSK and PwC Avoid surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within the Group Ensure there is clarity of roles and responsibilities between the auditor and local management Respond to any issues raised by management on a timely basis Meet agreed deadlines Provide continuity and succession planning of key employees of the auditor Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor reports and respond to requests and queries Employ consistent communication between local and central audit teams.
Wider auditor Provide up-to-date advice on the new Viability statement requirement responsibilities Provide up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues, including evolving market practice on the Viability statement requirements Serve as an industry resource: communicating best practice and industry trends in reporting and integrated reporting Adhere to all independence policies including GSKs policies, the Financial Reporting Councils ISA 240 and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission standards Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reects local risks and materiality Liaise with GSKs Audit & Assurance team to avoid duplication of work and Global Ethics and Compliance team to ensure common understanding of audit outcomes Provide consistency of advice at all levels of the organisation Ultimately provide a high quality service to the Board, be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with utmost integrity.
104 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Accountability continued Non-audit services The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the Prohibitions: GSKs policy has been updated so that the black list external auditor for the provision of certain services such as legal, of prohibited non-audit services in the new regulations are applied actuarial, internal audit outsourcing or financial information systems across the Group for GSKs 2017 financial year onwards.
Where the external auditor is permitted to provide non-audit subject to those exceptions outside the EU that the Committee can services such as audit-related, tax and other services, the approve.
Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are Pre-approval: The FRCs new guidance for audit committees restricts safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Committee the category-wide pre-approval process in GSKs policy from 2017. for such services.
There were no contractual or similar obligations This policy has been updated so that all non-audit services: restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
over 50,000 are pre-approved by the Committee Chairman All non-audit services over 50,000 are put out to competitive and CFO as delegated by the Committee: tender with financial service providers other than the external auditor, between 25,000 and 50,000 are pre-approved by the in line with the Groups procurement process, unless the skills and Group Financial Controller: and experience of the external auditor make them the only suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration.
In this case, a under 25,000 are approved by a designate of the Group request for proposal is submitted by the relevant CET member to the Financial Controller.
Non-audit services spending is monitored by the Fees paid to the companys auditor and its associates are set Committee on a quarterly basis and discussed with the Committee out below.
Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial Chairman.
The following policy guidelines on engaging the external auditor Where possible, other accounting rms are engaged to undertake to provide non-audit services are observed: non-audit services.
ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external auditor make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services: Audit non-audit services three year comparison graph m ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or 40 compromised: and ensuring that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual 30 audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would be 8.0 26.6 a clear advantage in the companys auditor undertaking such 20 20.1 20.1 additional work.
8.6 8.6 10 This policy, which has been maintained for a number of years by the 5.3 5.3 3.5 Committee, was reviewed in December 2016 for compliance with 0 2014 2015 2016 the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs revised Ethical Standards Audit and assurance services and the EU Audit Regulation new regulations.
The following three The fee for audit and assurance services in 2015 included 8.0 million arising key policy guidelines were considered by the Committee as part of from the Novartis transaction and the subsequent increase in complexity of the its review: Group.
Approximately half of this is expected to be recurring Fee cap: GSKs existing non-audit services fees cap of 50% of the Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and treasury-related services annual audit fee in GSKs policy is more stringent than the FRCs Services related to the Novartis transaction new fees cap set at 70% of the average of the audit fees for the preceding three year period.
GSKs existing policy cap of 50% has been retained.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial Committee evaluation statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and The Committees annual evaluation was internally facilitated by understandable.
The coordination and review of Group-wide the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire contributions into the Annual Report follows a well established circulated to Committee members on behalf of the Committee and documented process, which is performed in parallel with Chairman.
It was concluded that the Committee continued to the formal process undertaken by the external auditor.
In terms of enhancements to the Committees deliberations the following improvement points were agreed: The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by management in the preparation of GSKs 2016 Annual Report The Committee would focus on ways to further improve the to ensure that it met the requirements of the FRCs Code.
transparency of the companys reporting to reect best practice.
This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm The Committee considered its ways of working and agreed that GSKs 2016 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, enhancements to reect the Committees changing agenda.
The Committee asked management to continue to improve the Code of Conduct and reporting lines crispness of reports it received.
We also have a number of well established policies, including The Committee was keen to continue to receive regular updates on a Code of Conduct, which is available on the governance section cyber security and to understand how data analytics and technology of our website, and condential Speak Up reporting lines for could help to monitor employee and supplier behaviour against the the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
version of the Code of Conduct was published in April 2016. g n i r o t i n o e c M n a s r u s s e s n A i t R s t o n u e e B d P s n t r e p n o p e e s o b d d d l n n n I r e e d a p m i d e n d n s s n g a l I t o S r t n n e o t t C i e M M r y c n W t o & e a a i c i l n l n n p i a i i l t a m p b o o m g c o r a c i e h t n h t i t t i m n w g w t n h y y u g e t e t i i i l e i l s i c b n o r n b m a e G a t t a r v n u c t S o s s u n s o K 105 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Internal control framework The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced To ensure effective governance and promote an ethical culture, and understandable assessment of GSKs current position and the Group has in place the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council prospects.
The Board is accountable for evaluating and approving ROCC.
This team of senior leaders is authorised by the Board to the effectiveness of the internal controls, including financial, assist the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee in overseeing operational and compliance controls, and risk management risk management and internal control activities.
It also provides the processes operated by the Group.
business units with a framework for risk management and upward escalation of significant risks.
Each business unit has a risk board The Internal Control Framework the Framework is the means by structure which reports to the ROCC.
The business unit Risk which the Group ensures compliance with laws and regulations, the Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs are responsible reliability of financial reporting and comprehensive risk management.
for promoting the local tone from the top and risk culture, as well The Framework supports the continuous process of the Boards as ensuring effective oversight of internal controls and risk identication, evaluation and management of the Groups Principal management processes.
Risks, as required by the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, and is designed to Each Principal Risk has an assigned risk owner who is a member manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of not achieving business of senior management.
The risk owner is responsible for reporting objectives.
on the risk management strategy for their respective Principal Risk to the ROCC and the Committee at least once every two years.
A t for purpose Framework, in conjunction with our values and Speak Up processes, ensures that the risks associated with our The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by the Global Ethics and business activities are actively and effectively controlled in line with Compliance division GEC, which is responsible for advancing risk the agreed risk appetite.
We believe the Framework provides management and the development of practices that drive compliance reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material with policies and support risk-based decision making.
GEC actively misstatement or loss.
promotes ethical behaviours through enabling all members of the organisation to operate in accordance with our values, and to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Business Activities e A u s c c s v o & c i a e a t c r l i a d p u t c k s u r n e a A e s e s l s t t m C i n n a e A R E e g o a u m n m e a d m g a i m s n s v e a u n i m i s n d u t e i d B n n c n i n L e a I a t m i e o e n n i c l p r g i o n c i f r s n o i t i D E T n r o e a c M i n a n s r i u s s n e s n g A i s t n u e B d n t e n p e e d d n n I e p e d n I 106 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Accountability continued Internal control framework continued The Audit & Assurance division A&A, in line with an agreed The Boards review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries assurance plan, provides independent assurance to senior and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint management and the Board on how risk is being managed across ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of the the Group.
This assurance helps senior management and the Board companys participation in these activities.
There are established to meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities in fullling the procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results Groups strategic objectives and building trust with patients and must be consolidated with the Groups results.
A&A has a dual reporting line into the Chief We believe the process followed by the Board, through the Financial officer and the Committee.
Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal controls The Committee receives regular reports from business units, and risk management processes is in accordance with the Guidance Principal Risk owners, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and to the Group and on related internal controls.
These reports provide Business Reporting issued by the FRC.
an assessment on the internal control environment within each A review of the Groups risk management approach is further Principal Risk area, including enhancements to strengthen the discussed in the How we manage risk section of the Strategic control environment.
Following the consideration of these reports, Report on pages 18 to 19.
Our management of each Principal Risk the Committee concludes on the effectiveness of the control is explained in Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 253 to environment and reports to the Board annually.
The Groups viability is discussed in the Group financial review In accordance with the FRCs UK Code provisions, the Board, section of the Strategic Report on page 56. through the authority delegated to the Committee, has conducted a robust assessment of the Groups Principal Risks.
This includes the consideration of the nature and extent of risk it is willing to take in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board, through the Committee, has maintained oversight to ensure the effectiveness of the internal control environment and risk management processes in operation across the Group for the whole year, and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
Governance structure of risk management Board of Directors Responsible for our system of corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance Responsible for reviewing and approving the adequacy and effectiveness Audit & Risk Committee of our risk management and internal controls Corporate Executive Team Supports the CEO in managing our business and activities Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit & Risk Committee in overseeing Risk Oversight and the risk management and internal control activities of the Group Compliance Council Business units Responsible for our system of corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance Ensure that appropriate internal controls for effective risk management Risk Management and are implemented Compliance Boards Complemented by Country Executive Risk Boards to ensure a consistent approach to risk management across local geography level Accountability for monitoring Responsibility for implementing
