88 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Leadership and effectiveness Corporate governance framework The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly dened responsibilities and accountabilities.
The framework is designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and to provide a robust platform to realise the Groups strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
Our internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 18 to 19, and 105 to 106, are an integral part of GSKs governance framework.
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established as set out below.
Board Chief Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Corporate Science Executive Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee officer Committee Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on Corporate page 97 page 112 page 94 page 108 page 81 Executive See www.
com Team for terms of reference for terms of reference for terms of reference for terms of reference for terms of reference 2016 Board and Committee meeting attendance Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Corporate Responsibility Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Members Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Sir Philip Hampton 6 6 6 6 Sir Andrew Witty 6 6 Simon Dingemans 6 6 Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 6 6 4 4 Vindi Banga 6 6 6 6 5 5 5 6 Dr Vivienne Cox Appointed on 1 July 2016 3 3 3 3 Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 6 6 6 4 4 Dr Jesse Goodman 6 6 4 4 Judy Lewent 6 6 6 6 5 5 6 6 Urs Rohner 5 6 4 5 Stacey Cartwright Retired on 31 December 2016 5 6 5 6 Dr Stephanie Burns Retired on 5 May 2016 3 3 2 2 1 1 Sir Deryck Maughan Retired on 5 May 2016 2 3 2 3 2 2 2 3 Dr Daniel Podolsky Retired on 5 May 2016 2 3 2 3 1 1 Hans Wijers Retired on 5 May 2016 3 3 2 2 1 1 Details of other regular attendees at Committee meetings, such as the Chairman, CEO and other Executive Directors, are set out in the reports of our Committees.
These reports are included later in the Corporate Governance Report.
89 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2016 Board programme Areas of focus Strategic priorities link Strategy The Boards oversight of the execution of our strategy included: Reports from our principal businesses, R&D, and GMS organisations Discussion and approval of the strategic combination with Verily Life Sciences to develop bioelectronic medicines, resulting in the Galvani joint venture Holding a joint Board & CET strategy day to discuss the evolution of our strategy, external landscape changes, competitor advantage and governance arrangements Reports on our pensions, insurance, tax and treasury strategies Review of our R&D pipeline and new products Review of our ViiV Healthcare joint venture Performance During the year, the Board regularly discussed: Reports from the CEO, the heads of our principal businesses and R&D and GMS organisations The Groups financial performance The annual budget and forward looking three year plan Progress on our Finance transformation programme to enhance our processes and service capabilities Brexit impacts and planning Governance The Board undertook the following corporate governance duties: Received reports from Board Committees Approved the 2015 Annual Report AGM preparation Considered observations and actions from the internal evaluation of the Boards performance Received reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments Training on our Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA, the new Market Abuse Regulations MAR, and our updated Code of Conduct Approved the appointment of new CEO and Directors Approved the appointment of new auditor with effect from 2018 Talent and succession The Head of HR briefed the Board on: the Talent and Leadership Development strategy Strategy key: Grow Deliver Simplify 90 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Leadership and effectiveness continued Key Board roles and responsibilities Strong leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge Chairman Philip Hampton Non-Executive Directors Leads and manages the business of the Board Provide a strong independent element to the Board Provides direction and focus Constructively support and challenge management and Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the Board scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed deliverables and its Committees Shape proposals on strategy and management Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is allocated to Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms and promote effective debate and support sound decision making conditions of their directorship Ensures the Board receives precise, timely and clear Devote such time as is necessary to the proper performance information of their duties Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual basis Are expected to attend all Board meetings and additional to discuss individual contributions and performance, together meetings as required.
with training and development needs Independence statement Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the Board evaluation process The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors who are Meets with all the Non-Executive Directors independently identied on pages 84 to 85, including Professor Sir Roy Anderson of the Executive Directors with tenure of more than nine years, to demonstrate an appropriate Leads discussions with shareholders to whom he is degree of independence in character and judgement and to be responsible for the Groups performance free from any business or other relationship which could materially satisfied the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The independence Governance Code independence test on appointment.
and commitment of those Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for over six years has been subjected to a rigorous The Chairmans role description is available on www.
Chief Executive officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Sir Andrew Witty Vindi Banga Is responsible for the management of the business Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted Develops the Groups strategic direction for consideration intermediary for other Directors and approval by the Board Leads the review annually of the Chairmans performance, Implements the agreed strategy canvassing views from the Non-Executive Directors collectively Is supported by members of the Corporate Executive Team.
Discusses the results of the Chairmans effectiveness review with the Chairman The Chief Executive Ofcers role description is available on www.
com Leads the search and appointment process and recommendation to the Board of a new Chairman Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders In doing so, maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders through briengs from the Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors role description is available on www.
com Timely support and advice Company Secretary Acts as a Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees Victoria Whyte Supports the Board and Committee Chairmen in annual agenda plan setting Ensures information is made available to the Board members in a timely fashion Facilitates the ow of information within the Board and Committees and between Non-Executive Directors and management Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions Coordinates ongoing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman Advises the Directors on Board practices and procedures and corporate governance matters Chairs the Groups Disclosure Committee Acts as a point of contact for shareholders on corporate governance.
91 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board induction The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in individually Each new Director receives a general induction.
A personalised designing and facilitating induction programmes for new Directors.
induction is then devised which is individually tailored to each new They are designed with the purpose of orientating and familiarising Directors background, education, experience and role.
new directors with our industry, organisation, governance and strategy to Grow, Deliver & Simplify.
During the year, Emma Walmsley, our CEO Designate, Dr Jesse Goodman, a new US-based Science and Medical Expert, and Dr Vivienne Cox, a highly experienced UK-based Non-Executive Director, were all appointed to the Board.
General Board induction Executive Non-Executive All Directors Emma Walmsley Dr Jesse Goodman Directors duties and responsibilities Role of an Executive Dr Vivienne Cox Director GSKs Corporate Role of a Non-Executive Governance structure Build relationship with Director Chairman and the GSK Corporate Integrity GSK strategy, Board Agreement CIA training competitors and Fill any capability gaps GSKs Code of Conduct external environment training Meet CET members GSKs financial structure Customised Executive Director induction Customised Non-Executive Director induction Emma Walmsley Dr Jesse Goodman Dr Vivienne Cox CEO Designate scientific & Medical Expert Maximise handover opportunity with CEO R&D and Vaccines Brieng on US business deep dives and commercial model Continue to build knowledge of business and external Site visits to: Ware, environment Site visits to: Ware, Stevenage and Wavre Stevenage and Wavre Engage broadly across the business and externally in Remuneration and listening mode Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Committee induction define her leadership brand as CEO Committee inductions Finalise her strategy, its narrative and financial plan define the culture ways of working for the CET and the wider GSK Group Legal responsibilities and duties of a CEO Board, business awareness and training The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited requirements.
The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of and governance matters through regular papers and briengs from the CET, Research Advisory Board, the Research & Development the Company Secretary and presentations by internal and external Management Team RDMT, the Portfolio and Discovery Investment advisers.
Boards, the Global Pharma Operations Committee, the US During 2016, the Board members undertook specic refresher Commercial Leadership Team and the Risk Oversight and training on GSKs CIA and on the new MAR regulations and Compliance Council ROCC.
They also meet employees informally agreed to undertake training on GSKs Code of Conduct.
during visits to the Groups operations and at receptions held around Board meetings.
92 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Leadership and effectiveness continued 2016 Internal evaluation of the Board Internally facilitated by the The Company Secretary drew Company Secretary at the all the responses together Chairmans request.
from the information gathering stages of the evaluation She prepared an online survey process and discussed them comprising a small number with the Chairman.
Phase one Phase two Phase three Phase four Preparation Interviews Review Outcomes The Company Secretary had The Company Secretary follow-up face-to-face or prepared a Board paper for the telephone interviews with January 2017 meeting that Board members to discuss formed the basis of the their responses and to invite discussions with the Board.
members to provide any Learning points successes and clarifications and further areas of focus for the Board insights and perspectives on were identied and are set out the performance of the Board.
Successes Areas of focus for 2017 The CEO succession process had been a Create more opportunities for deeper strategic comprehensive, reective and informative process, discussions, particularly on the evolution of the which concluded successfully to schedule.
pharmaceuticals industry, the competitive landscape, therapy areas and GSK culture and performance.
Work to increase the Boards visibility and understanding of the pipeline and R&D organisation Identify ways to further improve the Boards had been appreciated.
The creation and establishment of the Science Further increase Board oversight of science and Committee would further enhance the Boards innovation in collaboration with the new Science Committee.
Consider how data from the new IT systems can New Board members had settled in quickly and contribute to greater understanding and hence help made immediate and positive contributions following evolve the business strategy.
The Board had successfully created increased opportunity for strategic debate.
93 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2016 Board performance action points Progress against the conclusions of the 2015 Board evaluation review, internally facilitated by our Company Secretary, is set out below.
Action points Progress Achievements Strategy Assist newer Directors with additional background brieng materials Additional materials are now provided on the ahead of debates on strategy.
Arrange more regular discussion of medium and longer term strategy The Board agenda was compiled to include more with fresh insights from different perspectives.
opportunities to consider strategy from different perspectives.
Implement suggestions to further enhance the effectiveness of the The Board provided positive feedback on the annual Board & CET strategy meetings.
2016 meetings held at the newly acquired Siena sites.
Executive Further increase the focus on executive succession plans and ensure The Board was well positioned to operate its succession and the effectiveness of the disaster recovery plan.
executive succession plans, that resulted in NED refreshment appointments to the Board and CET.
These are described in more detail in the report of the Nominations Committee on pages 94 to 96.
Consider alternative suggestions for Non-Executive Director refreshment.
New approaches to identifying potential scientific and medical experts were utilised during 2016, supported by external recruitment experts.
Deep dives Consider further deep dives particularly on: The 2016 Board meeting programme was adjusted and sites visits R&D strategy and pipeline, product launches, US pricing, joint ventures, to consider these matters during the year.
new business models and GMS.
Consider holding one site visit to an operational site each year.
The joint Board & CET strategy meetings in September 2016 were held in Siena, Italy at the manufacturing and R&D facilities acquired as a result of the Novartis transaction.
The Board had the opportunity to meet employees and were able to learn at first-hand how these facilities, people and processes had been integrated into the wider Group.
Shareholders Review and look to further enhance how the company communicates During the year, the Board and Audit & Risk with shareholders.
Committee continued to enhance quarterly reporting to assist shareholders understanding of the companys performance and standing.
Board materials Continue the drive to make Board Committee materials more concise and logistics and also effective in highlighting issues and concerns.
The Chairman, Committee Chairmen and the Aim to have less presentation time and more time for discussion and Company Secretary focused on these issues in the debate at meetings.
preparations for, and when chairing, meetings during Allow for social time for Board members to get to know each other 2016. better given the number of new Board members.
