Governance Corporate governance report This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Chairman Report and the remainder of the Governance section.
Leader of the Board Responsible for effective communication flow Board governance and structure between Directors Facilitates effective contribution of all Directors Overview Responsible for effective Board governance This governance report sets out how Glencore has applied Ensures effective communication the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code with shareholders the Code in a manner which enables shareholders to evaluate how these principles have been applied.
As a Chief Executive Officer London premium listed entity we seek to ensure full Leads and motivates management team compliance with the Code.
The Board believes that the Implements strategy and objectives as directed Company has throughout the year complied with all bythe Board relevant provisions contained in the Code.
Develops Group policies and proposals for approval by the Board and ensures Glencores Board comprises seven Non-Executive Directors effective implementation including the Chairman and one Executive Director.
A list of the current Directors, with their brief biographical details Senior Independent Director and other significant commitments, is provided in the Is a confidant of the Chairman and when previous pages.
The Chief Financial Officer attends all appropriate also acts as an intermediary for otherindependent Directors meetings of the Board and Audit Committee.
The Company Will stand in for the Chairman if he is unable Secretary attends all meetings of the Board and to attend its committees.
Chairs the Nomination Committee Responsible for appraising the Division of responsibilities Chairmans performance along with other As a Jersey incorporated company, Glencore has a unitary independent Directors Board, meaning all Directors share equal responsibility for Available to shareholders to answer questions decisions taken.
Glencore has established a clear division between the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive Other Non-Executive Directors Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are set out Supply challenge and support to management in a schedule of responsibilities which has been approved Bring independent mindset and differing by the Board.
While the Non-Executive Chairman is backgrounds and experience to Board debates responsible for leading the Boards discussions and Provide leadership and challenge as chair of, or a decision-making, the CEO is responsible for implementing member of, the Board Committees which except HSEC comprise only Non-Executive Directors and executing strategy and for leading Glencores operating performance and day-to-day management.
The CEO and Scrutinise leadership of Chairman CFO have line of sight across the Group.
The CEO is further Company Secretary supported by the Groups senior management team Secretary to Board Committees principally comprising the heads of the businesses and the Informs the Board on all matters reserved to it head of strategy.
The Company Secretary is responsible for andensures papers are provided in sufficient ensuring that there is clear and effective information flow to detailand on time the Non-Executive Directors.
Available to Directors in respect of Board Further details of these responsibilities are set out opposite.
procedures and provides support and advice Ensures the Board is kept informed on Peter Grauer, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is governance matters available to meet with shareholders and acts as an Coordinates and assists with the Board evaluation intermediary between the Chairman and other independent process along with the Chairman Directors when required.
This division of responsibilities, coupled with the schedule of reserved matters for the Board, ensures that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
84 Glencore Annual Report 2016 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Non-Executive Directors Board Committees The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a broad The following four Committees are in place to assist the range of skills and experience to the Board, which assists in Board in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, their roles in formulating the Companys strategy and in Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environmental and providing constructive challenge to executive management.
Communities HSEC, as set out in the diagram on the next page.
Committee meetings are held prior to Board Glencore regularly assesses its Non-Executive Directors meetings and at each scheduled Board meeting the independence.
Except for Peter Coates, due to his chairman of each Committee leads a discussion concerning employment by the Group during 201314 they all are the Committees activities since the previous Board meeting.
regarded by the Company as Independent Non-Executive Directors within the meaning of independent as defined The Committees carry out a considerable amount of work.
in the Code and free from any business or other relationship In particular: which could materially interfere with the exercise of their the Audit Committee provides challenge and enquiry on independent judgement.
the significant areas of financial and accounting oversight and risk management: and Management of conflicts of interest the HSEC Committee, whose membership includes both All Directors endeavour to avoid any situation of conflict of Chairman and CEO, continues to have the heaviest interest with the Company.
Potential conflicts can arise and workload of all the committees due to its strong therefore processes and procedures are in place requiring leadership of sustainability issues and the range of Directors to identify and declare any actual or potential matters which it considers.
Its work on driving conflict of interest.
Any such notifications are required to be improvements in the prevention of catastrophic events made by the Directors prior to, or at, a Board meeting and and safety performance continues to be of all Directors have a duty to update the whole Board of any particular focus.
Glencores Articles of Association and Jersey law allow for the Board to authorise potential A report for 2016 from each Committee Chairman is set out conflicts and the potentially conflicted Director must abstain later in this Corporate governance report.
During 2016, no abstention Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference procedures for conflicts had to be activated.
approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Each Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year and as a result revisions were made to the HSEC Committees terms of reference to ensure they continue to conform to best practice.
All Committees terms of reference are available at: www.
com who-we-are board-of-directors board-committees Glencore Annual Report 2016 85 C R H I E E C N F I O F E E M F I E X N T O A E T T I L I C M A O M U I N O T C S C I C O N V O T M A I R E D M N U I N I O T O A F T F E F F G E S T I E C I H C E R O R C I O T E N C R G E R I I E D D Governance Corporate governance report SHAREHOLDERS Committee meetings also benefit from presentations by Board meetings senior executives and some technical and investor relations The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out updates.
Presentations from the business and senior those matters which are reserved for its decision-making management allow Directors to enhance their alone such as strategy, the annual budget and material understanding of the business and the implementation of acquisitions and disposals.
Meetings are usually held at the strategy, in turn contributing to a more effective Board.
Companys headquarters in Baar, Switzerland.
Details of the A summary of the Boards main activities during 2016 is set Board and Committee meetings held during the year are out on the next page.
Several times a year the Chairman holds meetings with the The Board and its Committees have standing agenda items Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Director to cover their proposed business at their scheduled present, and at least once a year the Non-Executive Directors meetings.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the very meet without the Chairman present.
significant work of the Committees feeds into, and benefits as to feedback from, the full Board.
The Board and 86 Glencore Annual Report 2016 N F E E E O G T T I H A M D M T O R G C A S E E I O T T I R B M N C E U M M E U M E N O E N C R L D A T N T E I A O T N N E C M O N M O M R I I T V T N E E E, Y T E F A S, H T L A E H Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Work at Board meetings The main considerations and actions carried out at the meetings of the Board during 2016 are summarised below.
The work of the committees is described later inthis report.
At each main scheduled meeting the following standing matters are considered: consideration of any new conflicts of interest: review of minutes of previous meetings, including actions from previous meetings: and reports updates from the CEO, CFO, Head of Strategy and Investor Relations and Head of Communications.
These reports include consideration of strategic matters including possible asset expansions contractions, acquisitions disposals, material debt refinancing and analysis of risks.
In addition: regular updates are provided by the Company Secretary on governance, Board processes and other Company secretarial matters: and usually the Non-Executive Directors have a separate meeting, with sometimes a second session without the Chairman present.
Principal Board activities during 2016 First scheduled short agenda meeting Second short notice meeting Fifth scheduled meeting Results business update Business update In depth review of equity and credit markets and careful review of investor priorities Initial discussion as to proposed Consideration and approval of $625 million impairment charges investmentby bcIMC in Agriculture division Consideration of progress of debt reduction programme and review of debt management Consideration and approval of Antapaccay Market abuse regulation review and next steps streaming transaction Review of Groups IT function including cyber security Review and approval of 2015 Production Report and Reserves and Resources Report Review of legal and compliance function Third scheduled meeting including actual or potential litigation and the Business update and review of financial position Raising Concerns programme Review of debt reduction programme First scheduled meeting Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman Review of M&A policy and possibilities Annual Results, including review and approval, including other potential disposals and longerwhere appropriate, of: term strategy Fourth scheduled short agenda meeting report from the Audit Committee Chairman: Sustainability roadshow report Review of Q3 financial report detailed consideration of principal risks Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman uncertainties and mitigation to be disclosed: Review and approval of Q3 Production Report Report from the Audit Committee Chairman report on going concern: Preliminary discussion as to the main topics and Report from the Nomination messages for the December investor update final distribution recommendation: Committee Chairman full-year results announcement for the prior year: Third scheduled short agenda meeting Third short notice meeting Annual Report draft: and Business update Review of balance sheet strategy including new management representation letter dividend policy and 2017 capex plans, future Review and approval of Half-year reinvestment criteria Consideration of AGM resolutions Production Report Consideration and approval of the issues to Report from the Nomination Committee Consideration and approval of proposed be disclosed in the December investor update Chairman and discussion on whether all current ErnestHenry transaction including as to capex and distribution policy Directors should stand at AGM Review of debt reduction programme Report from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Sixth scheduled meeting Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman, Fourth scheduled meeting in particular discussions on safety and draft Review of principal risks and uncertainties and Half-year results, including review and sustainability report preparation for longer-term viability statement approval, where appropriate, of: Reviewed updated Board governance documents Presentations from the head of oil, head of report from the Audit Committee Chairman: and key policies copper and head of nickel principal risks and mitigation to be disclosed: Consideration and approval of the 2017 budget report on going concern: and 2018 20 business plan.
First short notice meeting Half-year results announcement: and Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman Business update management representation letter Report from the Audit Committee Chairman Approval of CPPIB $2.5 billion investment Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman Report from the Nomination inAgriculture division Committee Chairman Report from the Audit Committee Chairman Report from the Nomination Committee Chairman Second scheduled short agenda meeting Report from the Remuneration Business update Committee Chairman Considered and approved the Considered outcomes from multiple Q1Production Report shareholder meetings on governance and sustainability issues Second scheduled meeting Briefing on the business to be conducted at the AGM and after, of the other issues raised Report from the HSEC Committee Chairman, including discussion on several fatalities at Katanga Report from the Audit Committee Chairman Report from the Nomination Committee chairman Glencore Annual Report 2016 87 Governance Corporate governance report Attendance during the year for all scheduled full agenda Board and all Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below: Board of 6 Audit of 6 Remuneration of 2 Nomination of 4 HSEC of 7 Ivan Glasenberg 6 6 Anthony Hayward 6 7 William Macaulay 6 6 2 Leonhard Fischer 6 6 2 4 Peter Coates 6 7 John Mack 6 2 4 Peter Grauer 4 4 2 Patrice Merrin 6 7 In addition, there were another seven limited agenda All Directors have access to the advice and services of the meetings of the Board.
Details of all these Board meetings Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for are set out on the previous page.
ensuring the Board procedures are complied with, and have access to independent and professional advice at the Appointment and re-election of Directors Companys expense, where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
Director induction process All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the on joining the Board, including meetings with Directors remuneration report.
No other contract with the senior management.
Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company in which any Director was materially interested existed during Board effectiveness or at the end of the financial year except that Peter Coates During the year no material conflicts have arisen concerning received fees of AUD34,246 in 2016 relating to his the private interests of the Directors with those of directorship of Sphere Minerals Limited.
delisted part way through the year and Peter Coates subsequently retired from his role as Director Since an external evaluation was carried out during 2015 and Chairman.
and no material governance issues arose during 2016, the Board resolved to carry out an internal evaluation for the Information, management meetings, site visits and year.
As part of this process, the findings from the external professional development evaluation which were summarised in the 2015 Annual It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive Report were reviewed.
The evaluation process has been Directors 1 attain a good knowledge of the Company and augmented by the private sessions which take place its business and 2 allocate sufficient time to Glencore to between the Non-Executive Directors without management discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board and ongoing discussions as to the efficiency and calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
No material wide range of topics.
Directors are also given the issues arose from this evaluation.
opportunity to visit Group operations and discuss aspects of the business with employees, and regularly meet the Remuneration heads of the Groups main departments and other senior Remuneration is covered in the Directors remuneration executives.
As well as internal briefings, Directors attend report which follows this section.
It includes a description of appropriate external seminars and briefings.
the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Normally meetings with heads of commodities and other senior Group functions take place alongside scheduled Board meetings.
In addition, in order to better familiarise themselves with the industrial activities, regular site visits take place.
During 2016 three operations were visited.
88 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Accountability and audit Risk Board leadership The Board provides leadership and oversight on Financial reporting riskmanagement.
Specifically it: The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes a detailed annual planning budgeting 1 provides a robust assessment of the principal risks process where business units prepare budgets for overall facing the Group consolidation and approval by the Board.
The Group uses a The Board determines the nature and extent of the large number of performance indicators to measure both principal risks the Group should take in achieving operational and financial activity in the business.
The Board has carried out a Depending on the measure, these are reported and robust assessment of the principal risks facing the reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In addition, Group, including those that would threaten its business management in the business receives weekly and monthly model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
reports of indicators which are the basis of regular The Directors description of those risks and their operational meetings, where corrective action is taken if explanation as to how they are being managed or necessary.
At a Group level, a well-developed management mitigated are set out on pages 36 to 44. accounts pack, including income statement, balance sheet, 2 determines a longer-term viability statement cash flow statement as well as key ratios is prepared and Taking account of the Groups position and principal reviewed monthly by management.
As part of the monthly risks, the Directors assess the prospects of the reporting process, a reforecast of the current year Group and conclude whether they have a reasonable projections is performed.
To ensure consistency of expectation that the Group will be able to continue in reporting, the Group has a global consolidation system as operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over well as a common accounting policies and procedures theperiod of their assessment.
Management monitors the publication of new setout on page 111 and 112. reporting standards and works closely with our external auditors in evaluating their impact, if any.
3 monitors the Groups risk management and internalcontrol systems Risk management and internal control The Board oversees sound risk management and internal The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by control systems.
It carries out a regular review of their establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating effectiveness including reviewing the Groups internal and managing the risks that are considered significant by financial controls and the Groups internal control and the Group in accordance with the revised Turnbull risk management.
This monitoring and review covers all Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial material controls, including financial, operational and Reporting Council.
This process has been in place for the compliance controls.
Their work and conclusions are period under review and up to the date of approval of the described on pages 36, 89 and 90 to 93.
Annual Report and financial statements.
The process is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and have reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
This review excludes associates of the Group as Glencore does not have the ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of these entities.
This report describes how the effectiveness of the Groups structure of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems is reviewed.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 89 Governance Corporate governance report of the Board, which also retains operational authority on Approach to risk management matters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality.
Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group The Board retains final authority for assessing and achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial approving the Groups overall risk appetite and sets overall strength for the benefit of all shareholders and other limits which are subject to review annually.
It is assisted by stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as a the work of the Audit Committee for oversight and by senior going concern while generating sustainable long-term management for day-to-day operational matters, in order to profitability.
Spanning the organisational structure, maintain an effective risk management governance Glencores disciplined approach to risk management and apparatus for the Group.
control originates with strategic responsibility in the hands Risk Management Framework Risk culture Board of Directors Risk strategy and appetite Audit Committee OVERSIGHT Risk governance Tone from the top HSEC Committee Management team executive Risk organisation Group functions INFRASTRUCTURE External disclosure Internal Audit People Process Technology Risk monitoring and reporting HSEC Assurance RISK PROCESS Risk identification Business segments Identify Measure Mitigate Control Report and functions Risk assessment Marketing Industrial HSEC Risk management risk process risk process risk process External Business Sustainability Principal risks and uncertainties Supply & Prices Operating Credit Catastrophes HSEC see pages 36 to 44 Demand Group functions Risk Management Framework Group functions Risk Management, Compliance, Legal and Management engagement Sustainable Development support the Business Risk The Companys senior management reviews the major risks Owners and senior management in mitigating risk across facing the Group and decides if the level of risk is acceptable the Group.
or whether further steps need to be taken to mitigate these Internal Audit risks.
Together, central and business management set the level of risk appetite by ensuring that there is an appropriate Internal Audit, as an independent assurance provider, balance between the level of risk assumed and the reviews the risk management process and internal controls expected return.
established by the management team.
A risk-based audit approach is applied in order to focus on Audit Committee high risk areas during the audit process.
It involves The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk discussions with management on the risks identified in the management system and internal controls.
business risk registers, emerging risks, operational changes, Mandated by the Board, the Audit and HSEC Committees new investments and capital projects.
are responsible for ensuring that the significant risks The key results from this process are reported to the identified are properly managed.
90 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information As well as being subject to a review of the Audit Committee complementing their commercial decision-making.
for its effectiveness, the Internal Audit function was also A support, challenge and verification role is provided by the subject to external evaluation.
The next review is planned to central MR function headed by the Chief Risk Officer be carried out in 2017.
CRO via its daily risk reporting and analysis which is split by market and credit risk.
Industrial risk management The CEO, as the central figure of commercial leadership and We believe that every employee should be accountable for control, drives functional risk management policy, the risks related to their role.
As a result, we encourage our supported by the CFO and CRO, with data and reporting employees to escalate risks not limited to hazards to their from the central risk team and the other key functional immediate supervisors.
This enables risks to be tackled and units.
In turn the CEO reports to, and seeks authority limits mitigated at an early stage by the team with the relevant from the Board, with the main oversight role being level of expertise.
performed by the Audit Committee which receives a report from the CRO at each of its scheduled meetings.
It also The management teams at each industrial operation are approves subject to Board confirmation the Group-wide responsible for implementing a risk management process risk profile, and any exceptions to agreed that identifies, assesses and manages risk.
The risks that may impact on business objectives and plans At the heart of the risk management regime is the process of are maintained in a business risk register.
They include challenge that takes place between the CEO, the CRO and strategic, compliance, operational and reporting risks.
the business heads which sets risk appetite in accordance Any significant risks are reported to Management and the with Group requirements and market conditions for each Audit Committee.
The objective is to ensure that an appropriate Framework is implemented on a Group-wide basis to ensure balance is maintained between the levels of risk assumed consistency in the assessment and reporting of risks.
and expected return, which relies on the commodityspecific expert knowledge provided by business heads.
This is then subject to challenge from the CEO based on his HSEC risk management overall Group knowledge and experience.
This process is These risk management processes are operated at asset level designed to manage risk effectively while facilitating the subject to coordination and guidance from the central fast, commercial decision-making which is required in a sustainability team and subject to the leadership and dynamic commodity marketing company.
oversight of the HSEC Committee.
Another important consideration of the MR team is the The Groups internal assurance programme continues to be challenge of dealing with the impact of large transactional developed for the assessment of compliance with leading flows across many locations.
The function seeks to ensure practices in health and safety, environment effective supervision by its timely and comprehensive and communities.
transaction recording, ongoing monitoring of the Further information is provided in the report from the transactions and resultant exposures, providing all encompassing positional reporting, and continually HSEC Committee below and will be published in the Groups sustainability report for 2016. assessing universal counterparty credit exposure.
Key focus points Marketing risk management Glencores marketing activities are exposed to commodity Market Risk limits and reporting price, basis, volatility, foreign exchange, interest rate, credit The MR team provides a wide array of daily weekly and performance, liquidity and regulatory risks.
A daily risk report showing Group Value at Risk VaR as shown on the next page and various other stress Glencore devotes significant resources to developing and tests and analyses are distributed to the CEO, CFO and implementing policies and procedures to identify, monitor CRO.
Business risk summaries showing positional exposure and manage these risks.
and other relevant metrics, together with potential margin Glencore has a disciplined and conservative approach to call requirements, are also circulated daily.
The MR function Marketing Risk MR management supported by its flat works to enhance its stress and scenario testing as well as organisational structure.
Glencore continues to update and enhancing measures to capture risk exposure within the implement policies which are intended to mitigate and specific areas of the business, e. g. within metals, concentrate manage commodity price, credit and other related risks.
treatment and refining charges are analysed.
Glencores MR is managed at an individual, business and central level.
Initial responsibility for risk management is provided by the businesses in accordance with and Glencore Annual Report 2016 91 Governance Corporate governance report Value at Risk The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure calculation, the actual VaR number would have been by using a VaR computation assessing open commodity sunstantially lower, with no resulting technical breach.
positions which are subject to price risks.
VaR is one Much of this hedge book has now been realised.
of the risk measurement techniques the Group uses VaR development $m to monitor and limit its primary market exposure 120 related to its physical marketing exposures and related 100 derivative positions.
VaR estimates the potential loss in 80 value of open positions that could occur as a result of 60 adverse market movements over a defined time horizon, 40 given a specific level of confidence.
The methodology 20 is a statistically defined, probability based approach 0 Jan 2016 Mar 2016 May 2016 Jul 2016 Sep 2016 Nov 2016 that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification benefits by recognising offsetting Agricultural Products Energy products Metals & minerals positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be compared across all The Group remains aware of the extent of coverage of markets and commodities and risk exposures can be risk exposures and their limitations.
In addition, VaR aggregated to derive a single risk value.
does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by the Group, nor are Last year, the Board approved the Audit Committees these VaR results considered indicative of future market recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of movements or representative of any actual impact on its $100 million for 2016, consistent with the previous year.
VaR remains viewed in the context of its This limit is subject to review and approval on an annual limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy basis.
The purpose of this Group limit is to assist senior for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks management in controlling the Groups overall risk profile, and risks associated with longer time horizons as well within this tolerance threshold.
During 2016 Glencores as tail risks.
Recognising these limitations the Group reported average daily VaR was approximately $42 million, complements and refines this risk analysis through the with an observed high of $101 million and a low of use of stress and scenario analysis.
back-tests its VaR to establish adequacy of accuracy and to In Q2 2016, this limit was technically breached for facilitate analysis of significant differences, if any.
1 day by $1 million as the VaR calculation did not The Board has again approved the Audit Committees account for the future physical coal production that was recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of economically hedged with the corresponding captured $100 million for 2017. and reported on coal derivatives.
If such underlying hedged exposure had been included in the VaR Credit Risk Management Systems and reporting The Group continues to make extensive use of credit Whilst no single trading system that the Group can identify enhancement tools, seeking letters of credit, insurance cover, appears able to manage the broad range of requirements discounting and other means of reducing credit risk from that the different business profiles of the Group would place counterparts.
In addition, mark-to-market exposures in on it, interfacing with multiple source systems and relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially transferring data from one to another create enhanced risk collateralised primarily with cash pursuant to margining to data integrity, granularity, consistency and timeliness.
agreements in place with such hedge counterparts.
The Group-wide Credit Risk Policy governs higher levels of credit risk exposure, with an established threshold for referral of credit decisions by business heads to CFO CEO relating to unsecured amounts in excess of $75 million with BBB or lower rated counterparts.
At lower levels of materiality, decisions may be taken by the business heads where key strategic transactions or established relationships suggest that an open account exposure may be warranted.
92 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Dealing with requirements arising from Relationships with shareholders regulatoryreform The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the In 2016, Glencore continued to implement the requirements Group in communications with shareholders and believes of financial regulatory reform, including: that being transparent in describing how we see the market and the prospects for the business is extremely important.
"the European Market Abuse Regulation ""MAR"" which affects the protection and disclosure of inside information We communicate with shareholders in a number of different and the prevention of market manipulation: and ways."
The formal reporting of our fulland half-year results and quarterly production reports is achieved through a the Dodd-Frank Act, the European Market Infrastructure combination of releases, presentations, group calls and one Regulation EMIR and the Swiss Financial Market to one meetings.
The fulland half-year reporting is Infrastructure Act FMIA which affect in particular the followed by investor meetings in a variety of locations areas of risk mitigation trade confirmation timeframes, where we have institutional shareholders.
We also regularly portfolio reconciliation, portfolio compression and meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update dispute resolution and trade reporting.
or to introduce them to the Company and periodically Upcoming financial regulatory reform proposals or arrange visits to parts of the business to give analysts and requirements include: major shareholders a better understanding of how we manage our operations.
These visits and meetings are further requirements under EMIR including mandatory principally undertaken by the CEO, CFO and senior clearing and margining requirements: members of the Investor Relations team and an array of further requirements under FMIA including trade business heads.
In addition, many major shareholders have reporting, risk mitigation, margin requirements and meetings with the Chairman and appropriate senior mandatory clearing: and personnel of the Group including other Non-Executive MIFID II including EU authorisations and position limits.
Directors, the Company Secretary and senior Sustainability managers.
The impact of certain aspects of these and other new regulations to commodity market participants is potentially In particular in 2016, the following were undertaken: considerable.
The impact on our marketing business will a presentation and investor roadshow was held in May to largely be in the form of compliance requirements with provide a detailed account of the Companys associated costs, rather than meaningful commercial sustainability policies and plans.
Led by the Chairman of limitations.
Glencores compliance, finance, IT and risk the HSEC Committee, presentations were also given by teams continue to work together in monitoring and advising the Chairman and the CEO: and management on these developments.
the Chairman and Company Secretary met with a large Internal Audit number of institutional shareholders in the summer, principally to discuss governance and reporting.
Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The role of Internal Audit The Board receives regular updates from the Companys is to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk Head of Strategy on the views of shareholders through a management, control, and business governance processes.
briefing, which is a standing agenda item for all Board meetings, which is supplemented by input from the Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within the Chairman, CEO, CFO and, if applicable, the Senior business and suggests control solutions to mitigate Independent Director.
The Audit Committee considers and approves the risk-based audit plan, areas of audit focus and AGM resources and is regularly updated on audits performed and relevant findings, as well as the progress on implementing The Companys next AGM is due to be held in Zug on the actions arising.
In particular, the Committee considered 24 May 2017.
Full details of the meeting will be set out in the Internal Audits high priority issues with a particular focus Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders in on procurement and systems, its KPIs and the effectiveness April.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote and timeliness of managements responses to its findings.
by proxy as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
All documents relating to the AGM will be available on the The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys website at: www.
As part of this work, it considered the functions management framework and its improvement programme.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 93 Governance Corporate governance report reviewing the full-year audited, and half-year Audit Committee report unaudited, financial statements with management and the external auditors: Chairman reviewing the Groups financial and accounting policies Leonhard Fischer and practices including discussing material issues with Other members management and the external auditors, especially matters that influence or could affect the presentation of accounts William Macaulay and key figures: Peter Grauer considering applicable regulatory changes to All members served throughout the year.
All are considered reporting obligations: to be Independent Non-Executive Directors and deemed to evaluating the effectiveness of the external auditors: be financially literate by virtue of their business experience.
Additionally, all Committee members are considered by the recommending to the Board a resolution to be put to the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and shareholders for their approval on the appointment of the have competence in accounting.
The Committee held four external auditors and to authorise the Board to fix the scheduled and two additional meetings during the year, remuneration and terms of engagement of the which all the Committee members attended except that Mr external auditors: Grauer was unable to attend two meetings.
John Burton is monitoring the independence of the external auditor and Secretary to the Committee.
reviewing the operation of the Companys policy for the provision of non-audit services by it: Governance processes considering and approving two assignments above the The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group approval threshold with the external auditors in respect of Financial Controller, CRO and Head of Internal Audit and non-audit services: the lead partner from the external auditor to attend each considering the output from the Group-wide processes meeting.
Other members of management and the external used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, including auditor may attend as and when required.
Other Directors, credit and performance risks, across the industrial and and sometimes all other Directors, also attend its meetings.
marketing activities: The Committee also holds private sessions with the external considering the scope and methodologies to determine auditors and the Head of Internal Audit without members of the Companys going concern and longer-term viability management being present.
The Committee has adopted statements: guidelines allowing non-audit services to be contracted with the external auditors on the basis set out below.
reviewing the Internal Audit departments annual audit plan and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Role, responsibilities and main activities Audit function: The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencores Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to internal controls for which there were no significant financial reporting, external and internal audit, risk failings or weaknesses noted: and management and controls.
reviewing reports on the operation of the Groups legal compliance programme, including material notifications During the year, the Committees principal work included under the Groups Raising Concerns the following: whistleblowing programme.
reviewing Glencores internal financial and compliance controls and internal controls and risk Risk analysis management systems: The Committee receives reports and presentations at its reviewing and agreeing the preparation and scope of the meetings on our management of marketing and other risks year-end reporting process: excluding sustainability risks which are reviewed by the determining the global audit plan, scope and fees of the HSEC Committee.
audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: evaluating the Groups procedures for ensuring that the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: 94 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Significant issues related to the financial statements Internal Audit The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting The Committee monitored the internal audit function as policies have been adopted and whether management has described under Internal Audit on page 90. made appropriate estimates and judgements.
They also review external auditors reports outlining audit work External Audit performed and conclusions reached in respect of key The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness of the judgements, as well as identifying any issues in respect external auditor and as part of this assessment, of these.
has considered: During the first half of the year, the most significant issue the steps taken by the auditors to ensure their objectivity for the Committee concerned impairment analysis.
and independence: the deep knowledge of the Company which enhances The Committee considered whether the carrying value of goodwill, industrial assets, physical trade positions and Deloittes ability to perform as external auditor: material loans and advances may be impaired as a result of competence when handling key accounting and audit falls in commodity prices and some asset specific factors.
judgements and ability to communicate these to the We reviewed managements reports, outlining the basis for Committee and management: the key assumptions used in calculating the recoverable the extent of the auditors resources and technical value for the Groups assets.
Future performance capability to deliver a robust and timely audit including assumptions used are derived from the Board approved consideration of the qualifications and expertise of business plan.
As part of the process for approval of this the team: plan, the Committee considered the feasibility of strategic auditors performance and progress against the agreed plans underpinning future performance expectations, and audit plan, including communication of changes to the whether they remain achievable.
Considerable focus was plan and identified risks: and applied to managements commodity price and exchange the proven stability that is gained from the continued rate assumptions.
The Committee discussed with the engagement of Deloitte as external auditor.
external auditors their work in respect of impairment review, which was the most significant area of audit focus The Committee assesses the quality and effectiveness of the for them.
external audit process on an annual basis in conjunction with the senior management team.
Key areas of focus These impairment analyses focused in particular on: include consideration of the quality and robustness of the oil exploration and production assets and investments, audit, identification of and response to areas of risk and the especially in Chad: experience and expertise of the audit team, including the copper assets in Africa, particularly following temporary lead audit partner.
production curtailments: and Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor various coal assets.
The Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the The other main areas of analysis have been: external auditor is designed to ensure the external auditor robust assessment of principal risks and impact on independence and objectivity is safeguarded.
A specified longer-term viability: wide range of services may not be provided as they have the coal production economic hedging mark-to-market potential to impair the external auditors independence derivative losses: Excluded Services.
The Audit Committees approval is required for 1 any Excluded Service 2 any other capital preservation and debt reduction programme, in engagement where either i the fee is contingent, ii the fee particular the Agriculture, Antapaccay, Ernest Henry and may exceed $500,000, or iii where the fees for all non-audit GRail transactions: work may exceed $15 million.
Subject to these restrictions credit risk exposures: and and other safeguards in the policy, the external auditors taxation risks, especially concerning the recognition of may be permitted to provide certain non-audit services deferred income tax assets, disputes and BEPS.
when it is concluded that they are the most appropriate supplier due to efficiency and status as a leading firm for those specific services.
For 2016, fees paid to the external auditors were $31 million, the total non-audit fees of which were $9 million: further details are contained in note 27 to the financial statements.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 95 Governance Corporate governance report Reappointment of the external auditor Nomination Committee Deloitte has been the auditor of the listed entity since its IPO Chairman in 2011.
A lead audit engagement partner rotation occurred prior to the financial year ended 31 December 2013 and is Peter Grauer due to take place again during 2018 for which preparations Other members have already commenced.
John Mack The Board and the Audit Committee acknowledge the Leonhard Fischer greater investor scrutiny as to a tendering for, and rotation of, the external auditors and note the regulatory and All members served on the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee only comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met four times during the year Taking into account all relevant factors the Audit Committee and all members attended these meetings except that Mr has concluded that it is appropriate not to tender at the Grauer was unable to attend two meetings.
some of the discussions and deliberations in respect of the The Committee has determined that it is satisfied that the matters summarised below were carried out at work of Deloitte LLP is effective, the scope is appropriate Board meetings.
and significant judgements have been challenged robustly by the lead partner and team.
Additionally, there are no Roles and responsibilities contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are auditor.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the to assist the Board with succession planning and with the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at the 2017 selection process for the appointment of new Directors, both AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Executive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman.
This involves: evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and Leonhard Fischer experience of the Board and identifying the capabilities Chairman of the Audit Committee required for a particular appointment: 1 March 2017 overseeing the search process: and evaluating the need for Board refreshment and succession planning generally.
Main activities The Committee focused on two main tasks during this year.
Firstly, prior to the notice of 2016 AGM being compiled, the Committee considered the performance of each Director.
It concluded that each Director is effective in their role and continues to demonstrate the commitment required to remain on the Board.
Accordingly, it recommended to the Board that re-election resolutions be put for each Director at the 2016 AGM.
Secondly, the Committee considered the composition of the Board and refreshment.
It had been previously agreed that a further appointment would be beneficial and a search process had then been commenced.
Following a delay during the first half of this year, the process was restarted and several candidates have been considered for one or more further appointments to the Board during 2017.
96 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The Committee has noted the recommendations of the Health, Safety, Environment & Communities Hampton Alexander Review on gender and the Parker HSEC Committee Review on ethnic diversity.
It is part of the Committees policy when making new Board appointments to consider Chairman the importance of diversity on the Board, including gender Peter Coates and ethnicity.
This is considered in conjunction with experience and qualifications.
Other members External consultancy Spencer Stuart has been retained for Ivan Glasenberg the above search mandate.
Other than this engagement Anthony Hayward Spencer Stuart do not provide additional services Patrice Merrin to Glencore.
The Committee met seven times during the year.
Each Committee member served throughout the year and Peter Grauer attended all of the meetings, except that Mr Glasenberg was not able to attend one meeting.
Every scheduled meeting Chairman of the Nomination Committee had a substantial agenda, reflecting the Committees 1 March 2017 objective of providing leadership for the Group in continuing to achieve improved HSEC performance.
Role and responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: ensure that appropriate Group policies are developed in line with our Values and Code of Conduct for the identification and management of current and emerging health, safety, environmental and community risks: ensure that the policies are effectively communicated throughout the Company and that appropriate processes and procedures are developed at operational level to comply with these policies: evaluate the effectiveness of policy implementation and HSEC risk management through: assessment of operational performance: review of recent internal and external reports: and independent audits and reviews of performance in regard to HSEC matters, and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised: evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any reporting to external stakeholders concerning HSEC matters: and report to the Board.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 97 Governance Corporate governance report Main activities During the year, the Committee: reviewed and approved the Groups HSEC strategy: continued its work on reducing fatalities, especially at the higher risk focus assets.
For this purpose it received a report on, reviewed and made recommendations in respect of, each fatality.
The multiple fatalities at the African copper assets in 2016 were a matter of particular scrutiny and included a site visit to all the African copper assets and a review of African copper safety management at each scheduled Committee meeting during the year: provided leadership for catastrophic hazard management which is the most important non-financial risk management issue for the Group: oversaw a re-evaluation of safety and effectiveness of tailings dams across the Group, including in particular a study of an incident at Kazzinc: continued the implementation of the SafeWork programme focusing on identification of fatal hazards and an appropriate safety culture: oversaw the continued implementation of the Groups revamped assurance programme for sustainability matters with an emphasis on catastrophic hazards and approved the assurance plan for 2017: oversaw the Crisis and Emergency Management Policy: assisted with managements engagement with the Aiming for A coalition and oversaw policy initiatives in order to comply with the requirements of the resolution proposed by them which was passed at the 2016 AGM: considered engagement with communities and NGOs on sustainability matters: reviewed and oversaw the Groups sustainability report: held an investor roadshow to inform and receive feedback on the Companys sustainable development strategy and approach to HSEC management: and considered a variety of other material HSEC issues such as resettlement programmes, incident reporting and health strategy.
Peter Coates Chairman of the HSEC Committee 1 March 2017 98 Glencore Annual Report 2016
