Nomination committee report Culture Our employees will play an important role in shaping our culture and their behaviours will support our new vision, attitudes and beliefs.
The committee will reflect this in its oversight of succession planning, leadership development and the talent framework and will also build them into the Boards recruitment, development and succession considerations.
Diversity The Group has continued to focus on improving diversity.
The diversity steering group established last year has provided support and direction to the diversity and inclusion forum, in addition to reviewing strategy and guiding policy across the Group and operating companies.
Diversity initiatives continue to develop and we now have representatives from the rail division on the diversity steering group, which will enable us to extend this work across the rail division over the coming year.
As a Board, we take our responsibility to monitor developments in corporate governance very seriously, to ensure that we remain at the During the year, the committee led forefront of good governance practices.
Examples of this for the nomination committee during the year included consideration of the Financial Reporting the process toappoint a Group Councils discussion and feedback papers on UK Board Succession Planning and The Governance Institutes research report on the role of the Chief Financial Officer nomination committee.
One of our key focus areas for the year ahead will be to consider in more detail the actions that we can take to further improve nomination committee effectiveness.
Dear Shareholder During the year, the committee focused on the areas of work highlighted as key priorities in last years annual report.
Succession planning I am pleased to report that I completed the review of the Boards composition during the year, which included meeting with each nonAndrew Allner, executive director to discuss their tenure and contribution to the Board.
To Nomination Committee Chair support the plan and timetable now agreed, one of our priorities for the year ahead will be to assess the existing skill set of the Board.
We will then 8 September 2016 develop a skills gap analysis to ensure that there is a link between Board succession planning and the development of our strategy and culture.
The committee also received regular updates on the senior managements leadership and talent framework and pipeline and this year there was a deep dive assessment of critical roles, with an increased focus on ensuring that this work more closely aligned with our succession planning and strategic planning.
This years internal Board evaluation review did however identify that there was still more to be done to align senior management succession planning to strategic planning and corporate culture and we will oversee this work as a means of selecting the individuals best suited to the Groups future direction.
Appointment of Group Chief Financial Officer During the year, the committee was responsible for leading the process for appointing a new Group Chief Financial Officer, to replace the departing Group Finance Director.
In March 2016, the Board was pleased to welcome Patrick Butcher to the Group and full details of the process undertaken and induction are provided on pages 81 and 66 respectively.
80 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Nomination committee report at a glance Nomination committee Highlights progress made Priorities for objectives set for 2015 16 against 2015 16 objectives 2016 17 Review Board composition and non-executive Appointment of Group Chief Financial Officer Improve committee effectiveness through best rotation in the context of business needs practice initiatives Review of Board composition and non-executive Future orientated Group wide succession director rotation Continue focus on ensuring Board and senior planning aligned to strategy management succession planning are aligned to Future orientated Group wide succession strategy and culture Further development of the leadership and planning more aligned to strategy talent framework and pipeline Undertake Board skills assessment and gap Further development of the leadership and analysis Development of the diversity initiatives in the bus talent framework and pipeline division across the rail division and wider Group Oversight of leadership and talent initiatives, Induction of rail representatives into the diversity linking to new vision, attitudes and beliefs Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director steering group and facilitate his her induction to the Group Full integration of the rail division into the diversity steering group and forums More information on pages 81 to 83 Nomination committee membership Attendance Andrew Allner Committee Chair Katherine Innes Ker Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director Andrew Allner David Brown Group Chief Executive Nick Horler Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group Company Secretary With effect from the start of the 2016 17 financial year, and in accordance with Adrian Ewer best practice, the Group Chief Executive will no longer be a member of the nomination committee Committee at work recruitment of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer In July 2015, the search for a Group Chief Financial Officer to replace the An important part of this process was for the Nomination Committee departing Group Finance Director, commenced.
The nomination Chair to ensure that all Board members were kept up to date.
In addition committee directed the selection process, which included agreeing a to the committee meetings held throughout the process, the Board and candidate profile and engaging Russell Reynolds Russell to work with the the remuneration committee also held meetings to specifically discuss the committee on this assignment.
Russell has no other connection to the committees recommendation and to agree the appropriate remuneration Group.
In addition to strong leadership and people development qualities, package, before approving Patricks appointment, which was announced on the committee sought candidates with a track record of delivery and 2 November 2015. credibility and a strong focus on commercial finance and contract work, as Patrick Butcher joined the Group as Group Chief Financial Officer on 14 well as seeking a number of key performance and personal attributes March 2016.
He came from Network Rail where he had been Group aligned to the Groups culture.
Finance Director since 2009, and brings a wealth of industry experience to the position having held finance director roles at English, Welsh and Russell researched the market for potential candidates to produce a long list of candidates for the committees consideration.
From this long list, the Scottish Railways now DB Schenker, Mapeley Limited, London Underground and Kings College Hospital.
His early career was spent at committee agreed that a number of candidates, including one internal candidate, should meet with the Group Chief Executive and Group HR Deloitte & Touche as a management consultant and auditor.
Until recently, he was also a member of the British Transport Police Authority.
Director before a short list of candidates were invited to attend a site visit with the Group Chief Executive.
Patrick Butcher emerged as the preferred Following Keith Downs resignation on 6 December 2015, Go-Aheads candidate, meeting the profile requirements with his skills and experience.
Group Financial Controller, Paul Edwards, was appointed as Interim Group Having confirmed his interest in the role, he met with the Chairman Finance Director which ensured an orderly transition in the intervening Nomination Committee Chair and then the remaining members of period prior to Patricks appointment date.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 81 Nomination committee report continued Board composition and skills The committee reviews the tenure of individual non-executive directors on Succession a regular basis in the context of length of service, experience, independence, planning and talent contribution and skills.
This is not only from a current strategy perspective management but also taking into account potential future strategic needs.
This years review also enabled the Board to confirm that the contributions made by all directors continued to be effective and that the Group should support their re-election.
For Katherine Innes Ker, who was approaching her six-year term with the Group in July 2016, there was a more comprehensive review, with greater challenge and discussion, before the committee concluded that Katherines term should be extended beyond six years.
Developing Nomination Board diversity The nomination committee considers that the Board consists of individuals people Committee with the right balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership of the Group.
The Board consists of the Chairman, three non-executive and two executive directors, who together bring a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, personal attributes and experience.
The majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
Diversity and Time commitments inclusion The time commitments required from the non-executive directors, and their other commitments, are also reviewed as part of the year end process.
Prior to any new commitments being made by directors, agreement is sought from the Chairman.
Succession planning and talent management This year, the committee was again satisfied that there are no conflicts of The annual leadership review is now an embedded process within each of interest and that all directors have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities.
our operating companies and the results are consolidated and analysed by In particular, the committee reviews the time commitments of those Group HR.
Succession risks, critical roles and scarce skills are identified directors who chair committees or who have roles on other Boards to through this process.
The talent strategy is reviewed each year to address ensure that they have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities to the this maturing agenda.
This is to ensure that they are able to be fully engaged and actively involved with the Groups business throughout the year.
The committee recognises the importance of preparing a pipeline of high quality internal talent that are ready for senior management and Board Committee effectiveness positions in a range of roles.
During the year, the committee was updated on the succession plans for all senior management across the Group, including The committees performance was also reviewed during the year through succession risks that were being planned for.
Where there had been changes the internal Board evaluation facilitated by the Group Company Secretary.
to the individuals in key critical roles, or new roles were established, the The review found that the positive trend of improvement had continued, committee was updated on the plans and process for making future which was largely attributable to the quality of information now being appointments to these roles.
received by the committee and the related more detailed discussions around the areas of succession planning, leadership, talent management The Board recognises that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying and diversity.
and developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the organisation.
We continue to strengthen our internal retention strategies to Committee purpose and responsibilities include career planning, personal development plans, coaching and The purpose of the nomination committee is to keep the Boards secondments.
governance, composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and The committee takes an active interest in talent management across the succession arrangements under review and to make appropriate Group and this year the committee received more information on how the recommendations to the Board to ensure the Groups arrangements are pipeline of talent was being managed and how this worked to support consistent with the highest corporate governance standards.
succession planning at senior levels.
There is now strong evidence to support During the year, the committee met four times.
Two of these meetings were the success of the Groups talent pool programme introduced four years scheduled and two were additional meetings to deal with the departure of ago, with a good proportion of colleagues who have been through this the former Group Finance Director and the appointment of the new Group programme having been promoted or taken on broader responsibilities.
number of colleagues are also now supporting or continuing to support the mobilisation of the Singapore operations, with only a small proportion A full list of responsibilities is detailed in the committees terms of reference overall having actually left the business.
The Groups talent pool is now the which are reviewed regularly, approved by the Board, and available on the first port of call when looking for internal candidates for existing or new Groups corporate website www.
com or upon request from the roles, with new support tools and coaching programmes being developed to Group Company Secretary.
support the development of others.
82 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information With future plans to further strengthen the Groups approach to succession people managers and those involved in recruitment.
The focus of the training planning, leadership development and talent management, the committee is understanding the implications of the Equality Act and recognising will continue to play an active role, particularly with regard to ensuring that unconscious bias.
initiatives are aligned with strategic planning and corporate culture.
Recently, representatives from the rail division have joined the diversity For further information on our people, see pages 32 to 35. steering group, which means that the good work we have done in the bus division will be extended into the rail division in the next year.
Board diversity In preparation for the Gender Pay Gap regulations coming into force we The Board continues to believe that the Board Diversity Policy remains have developed a plan that will represent best practice.
We have one female non-executive director on the Board, with benchmark for the Group to be able to understand any issues that may the percentage of female representation currently 17%.
While this is below exist in differences between male and female pay across the Group.
Action the recommendation of Lord Davies, which was that there should be a plans will then be created by each operating company to address any minimum female representation on Boards of 25% by 2015, the Boards narrative that we create from the analysis of the data.
view is that this level of female representation is appropriate at this time.
This is particularly in the context of the comparatively small size of Go-Aheads Developing people Board, which we feel is appropriate, with all the directors participative People are the heart of any business and the Board continues to recognise and accountable.
the importance of investment both to develop people to execute their role Our foremost priority however remains to ensure that Go-Ahead continues effectively and to grow the talent required for the future.
There is a formal to have the strongest possible leadership and we will appoint only the most and maturing agenda that is discussed on a regular basis.
ranges across succession planning, talent identification, management and development, leadership development, and the resources provided by the The annual Board evaluation process includes an assessment of the Boards Group Academy.
The Group Academy offers core learning resources to diversity including gender, helping the Board to objectively consider its everyone in the Group.
Commitments communicated in 2016 are that all composition and effectiveness.
people identified as successors will have a personal development plan: high performers will attend a tailored leadership development programme and Diversity and inclusion the pipeline of graduates will continue and be extended.
The bus graduate The nomination committee also oversees the diversity and inclusion scheme has been maintained and a new rail scheme has started with five initiatives across the wider Group.
We continue to acknowledge that in the new entrants in 2016.
It is anticipated that even more graduates will be transport industry generally there are barriers to attracting, retaining and recruited into both schemes in 2017.
Group HR focus has been on defining promoting women and some of this is legacy and also cultural.
The a future focused resourcing strategy to identify the critical and scarce skills promotion of women to the Board and other senior positions within the that will be required to deliver our strategic objectives.
These skills will come Group is completely dependent on our ability to attract, develop and from both inside and outside the business.
Individual operating companies promote women from within.
There has been an increased focus to improve are initiating a wide range of local activities to develop their own talent, gender ratios in all businesses and a Group diversity and inclusion manager including establishing their own learning portals which are connected to, and has recently been appointed to ensure time and focus is given to this supported by, the Group Academy.
Our diversity and inclusion steering group and forum are now well established and working well together.
Our forum is supported by champions who each represent our operating companies and sponsor local activities and good progress has continued to be made during the year, with highlights including: Recruitment fairs and open days to successfully attract women into bus driver roles Modernised recruitment advertising to be attractive to women and more diverse groups Increased connections with local schools promoting bus driving as a positive career option for boys and girls Our new diversity steering group, which was created in 2015, has also made good progress establishing best practice in policy and equal opportunities.
All of our operating companies are working with the steering group to establish best practice processes and have agreed to complete a peer assessment against a common set of standards.
This will establish a benchmark for each business which they will then continue to work to improve.
Training resources have been developed by the Group Academy and each operating company has committed to delivering a training plan that will include all The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
