Board of directors N R Andrew Allner, Chairman Appointment: Andrew Allner joined the Board in October 2008 and was appointed as Chairman of the Group in April 2013 Length of service: 7 years and 10 months Independent: On appointment Skills and experience: Significant Board experience including Finance Director, Chief Executive Officer, Non-Executive Director and Chair roles.
Experience across a broad range of UK and multinational companies and sectors.
Former Partner at  and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Non-Executive Director of AZ Electronic Materials SA from 2010 to 2014, of CSR plc from 2008 to 2013 and of Moss Bros Group plc from 2001 to 2005 Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chair and remuneration committee Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Chairman of Marshalls plc Chairman of the nomination committee : Senior Independent Director of Northgate plc Chairman of the audit and risk committee and member of the nomination and remuneration committees and Non-Executive Chairman of Fox Marble Holdings plc member of remuneration committee N David Brown, Group Chief Executive Appointment: David Brown was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chief Executive on 1 April 2011 before his accession to the post of Group Chief Executive on 3 July 2011 Length of service: 5 years and 5 months Independent: - Skills and experience: Over 33 years experience in the industry with particular expertise in the London bus market.
Former Managing Director of Surface Transport at Transport for London.
Thorough knowledge and understanding of the Groups business, having been Chief Executive of Go-Aheads London bus business from 2003 to 2006 and advisor to the main Board Committee membership: Nomination committee member Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Director of ATOC Limited Chair of the remuneration committee and Director of Rail Delivery Group Limited Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer Appointment: Patrick Butcher was appointed to the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer on 14 March 2016 Length of service: 0 years and 5 months Independent: - Skills and experience: Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants South Africa.
Over 15 years of experience as a finance director at Board level in transport and infrastructure companies.
Former Group Finance Director of Network Rail as well as finance director roles at English, Welsh and Scottish Railways now DB Schenker and London Underground.
Extensive experience working as a management consultant and auditor for Deloitte LLP.
Former member of the British Transport Police Authority Committee membership: Not applicable Other directorships and offices: Not applicable R N A Katherine Innes Ker, Senior Independent Director Appointment: Katherine Innes Ker joined the Board in July 2010 and was appointed as Senior Independent Director in April 2013 Length of service: 6 years and 1 month Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Former city financial analyst.
Extensive executive and non-executive experience in helping to grow successful and dynamic organisations.
Held many previous non-executive directorships including St Modwen Properties plc, Victoria plc, Taylor Wimpey plc, Taylor Woodrow plc, The Television Corporation plc, Fibernet plc, Williams Lea plc, Shed Media plc and Gyrus Group plc Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Chair, nomination and audit committee member Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Chair of The Mortgage Advice Bureau 60 60 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Str Strategic repor ategic repor ategic report t t Go Go Gov v ver er ernance finance finance Financial statements Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder inf Shareholder infor or ormation mation mation N A R Nick Horler, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Nick Horler joined the Board in November 2011 Length of service: 4 years and 9 months Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Former Chief Executive Officer of Scottish Power and Managing Director of E. On Retail.
Extensive general management experience in UK and USA regulated markets, specialising in sales and marketing.
Brings valuable insights to Go-Aheads development of social networks and digital marketing to attract new passengers Committee membership: Nomination, audit and remuneration committee member Other directorships and offices: Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail plc member of the audit and risk and nomination committees: Chair of Alderney Renewable Energy Limited: Chair of Meter Provida Limited and Meter Provida Investments Limited: Non-Executive Director of Thames Water Utilities Limited: Chair of Adler and Allan Limited and Chair of UK Power Reserve Limited N A R Adrian Ewer, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Adrian Ewer joined the Board in April 2013 Length of service: 3 years and 4 months Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Became a chartered accountant in 1977 and, as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, has sound recent and relevant financial experience.
Former Chief Executive Officer of John Laing plc and associated limited companies.
Wealth of experience of major long term contracts.
Strong customer focus and flair for strategy and finance.
Experience in bidding and operating heavy and light rail franchises as well as rail infrastructure procurement Committee membership: Audit Committee Chair, nomination and remuneration committee member Other directorships and offices: Not applicable N A R Carolyn Ferguson, Group Company Secretary Appointment: Carolyn Ferguson was appointed as Group Company Secretary in July 2006.
Length of service: 10 years and 2 months Independent: - Skills and experience: A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Qualified and practising coach and mentor.
Extensive company secretarial, compliance, governance and pensions experience.
Prior to her appointment as Group Company Secretary in July 2006, she was Assistant Company Secretary from 2001.
Previous employment included working for Northern Electric, predominantly in the field of pensions.
Committee membership: Nomination, audit and remuneration committee secretary Other directorships and offices: Not applicable Directors tenure Key to committees Nomination committee N 0-2 years: 17% 2-4 years: 17% A Audit committee 4-6 years: 33% R 6-8 years: 33% Remuneration committee Chairman Committee Secretary The above is as at 2 July 2016, and does not include Keith Down, who left the business on 6 December 2015 following a 4 year and 8 month term of office.
The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
