Corporate governance report Our new vision, attitudes and beliefs will support value creation for our key stakeholders, as well as the wider society Leadership Ensuring adequate funding and examining and approving major The role of the Board and its committees investment and acquisition opportunities Go-Ahead is headed by a Board whose members are collectively Leadership and oversight of culture responsible for the long term success of the Group.
Principally, we achieve this through: Formulating key policies and reporting to shareholders Developing and monitoring the Groups strategy, vision, attitude Assessing the governance framework of the Group and beliefs Reviewing internal controls and maintaining a robust system of risk Monitoring safety standards and championing improvements management Setting strategic objectives for the operating companies Ensuring that suitable procedures are in place for the planning within the Group of executive, non-executive and senior management succession Monitoring the performance of the Group Our governance framework on the following page establishes a clear We continued to hold informal meetings and Board dinners during the year division of responsibilities for the Board.
The Chairman and Group Chief as these have proved to be an important way of building relationships Executive hold distinctly separate roles and the Board has adopted a written outside the boardroom which in turn have resulted in greater challenge and Statement of Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the improved Board dynamics.
Additionally, the Chairman and the non-executive Group Chief Executive.
directors periodically meet without the executive directors present.
During the year, the Chairman also met individually with each director.
A full description of the Boards role, which includes the specific responsibilities reserved to us, is available on our website The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation www.
with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary.
Detailed briefing papers in relation to the business to be conducted at each meeting are circulated to the Board electronically at least one week before each Our devolved framework meeting.
The executive directors and Group Company Secretary are readily Day-to-day management of the Group and the implementation of strategies available should any Board member wish to receive additional information.
agreed by the Board across the Group and operating companies have been delegated to the executive directors.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate and the small size of our Board provides an excellent opportunity for everyone to The executive directors meet with senior management in the Group and contribute.
The Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for across our businesses both formally via monthly meetings and less formally discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues where more time on a regular basis.
We believe that this devolved management structure is now spent in Board meetings debating key issues and key financial matters.
enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective way and allows A further improvement from last years Board evaluation review was to the right balance between local and wider initiatives to deliver Group adopt a clear flagging system for Board papers to guide whether these are benefits.
It also ensures the Board remains well informed about our for decision, for discussion or for information at Board meetings.
operating companies, employees, passengers and stakeholders, enabling it to respond pro actively to the changing dynamics of the business.
The areas which the Board focused on in 2015 16, the highlights progress against these objectives together with the priorities for 2016 17 are set out Board meetings on pages 64 and 65.
We hold nine scheduled formal meetings a year, including a separate meeting dedicated to reviewing the Groups strategy, which all directors attend.
During the year, excluding standing items, the Board discussed a number of key areas including strategy, key risks and opportunities, financial Modern Slavery Act 2015 performance, leadership, people and culture, governance and stakeholders.
The Board recognises the importance of the provisions of the Modern Topics of discussion centred around specific franchising and bidding Slavery Act 2015 and the directors aim to ensure that slavery and opportunities, the political landscape and developments, stakeholder human trafficking have no part in the Groups supply chain.
The Group management and corporate reputation and deep dives into key risk areas has always been vigilant about employee welfare and aims to be such as cyber security and franchise bid process.
This year, we also held three transparent in its practices.
During the year, the Board approved a new additional meetings where certain topics warranted more time, such as the Modern Slavery Act Policy and a signed statement can be found on the challenges faced by GTR and financial forecasts in the corporate plan, Groups website www.
All operating companies across particularly on the range of outcomes for the GTR contract.
Additionally, we the Group have also approved the Groups Modern Slavery Act Policy, met to approve bids or contracts where decisions needed to be made with signed statements also on all individual operating company outside the scheduled meeting timetable.
Further details on the Groups approach to human rights are set out on page 35.
62 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Boar Board and go d and gov vernanc ernance fr e frame amew work ork Shareholders Board Responsible for the overall conduct and culture of the Groups Accountable to stakeholders and shareholders business Ensuring the long term sustainable success of the Group More information on page 62 Setting strategy and direction A schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be found on Ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our our website www.
com system of corporate governance Group Company Chairman Group Chief Group Chief Senior Independent Non-Executive Secretary Executive Financial Officer Director Directors Leads the Board and is responsible for its Acts as an Leads the business and Provides strategic Acts as a sounding Constructively effectiveness independent is responsible for board for the challenge and help and financial guidance Board advisor, executing the strategy Chairman and develop the Groups to ensure that the with responsibility intermediary for other strategy Groups financial for corporate directors where commitments governance and necessary are met best practice, good information flows and ensuring that the Audit committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee decisions of the Provides assurance to the Board over Evaluates and makes Sets the executive directors Board are implemented the Groups financial statements recommendations regarding Board remuneration policy to support and committee composition, strategy Reviews the activity and performance succession planning and diversity of the internal and external auditors Sets performance targets and reviews Oversees the Groups leadership and outcomes in accordance with policy Reviews the integrity, adequacy and talent framework, succession planning effectiveness of the Groups system Oversees the reward framework for and Group-wide diversity initiatives of internal control including the risk senior managers within the Group management framework and related compliance activities More information More information More information on page 71-79 on page 80-83 on page 84-103 Operating company boards Rail and bus steering Group executive team groups and forums Operated as autonomous business Comprises senior managers units by local senior management responsible for the key centralised Cross-business steering groups which who know their markets well Group functions comprise the managing directors in each operating company meet with Local senior management report Meets monthly with the executive the executive directors on a regular directly on day-to-day management directors to review the business and basis to: issues to the executive directors identify, execute and track synergies Explore and identify new who in turn appraise the Board which can then be cascaded through opportunities and initiatives the cross-business groups and forums Share knowledge, experience and best practice across operations Functions include, but are not limited to the areas of IT, procurement, bus These groups are supported by the and rail business development and cross-business forums which include, marketing but are not limited to, health and safety, engineering, HR and diversity forums.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 63 Corporate governance report continued Board Board objectives set for 2015 16 Highlights progress made against 2015 16 objectives Priorities for 2016 17 Good progress made implementing the Implement the actions from the internal Implement the external Board evaluation review recommendations recommendations from the external Board Board evaluation evaluation review with improved Board Drive culture change and ensure all strategic Further align succession planning and leadership effectiveness as a result development with strategic planning decisions are underpinned by the Groups new Annual leadership review completed, vision, attitudes and beliefs Continue to strengthen talent strategy in the including senior management succession context of culture, values and Continue to strengthen diversity initiatives and planning oversight behavioural framework extend the work across the rail division Non-executive director succession review Continue to build upon and develop Continue supporting the new Group Chief completed with agreed rotation points diversity initiatives Financial Officers integration during the Further progress with implementing a range of remainder of his first year with the Group Appoint a replacement Group Finance Director diversity initiatives under the direction of the and facilitate his her induction to the Group Remain informed and abreast with best practice new diversity steering group processes and reporting Patrick Butcher appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer, with his induction completed Strategy Board objectives set for 2015 16 Highlights progress made against 2015 16 objectives Priorities for 2016 17 Review of organisational structure to Organisational review completed, including Review and monitor delivery of the Groups deliver strategy succession, leadership and talent planning to strategic priorities support strategy Continue to develop framework for Understand the internal and external factors, development and diversification opportunities Approach to strategy discussions and including risks, that support the delivery of the monitoring strengthened to develop and Groups strategic priorities Further enhance collaboration and support framework partnership working Review approach to succession planning, Improved collaboration and partnership leadership development and talent management Improve focus in response to rail performance working, supported by the new vision, attitudes to ensure alignment with strategic planning and and customer experience and beliefs, with their customer centric focus corporate culture Increased focus on stakeholder management Focus on improving performance and customer and corporate reputation at Board meetings, services at GTR with regular updates from senior management Ensure our strategy supports delivering value for Executive remuneration closely aligned our customers, employees, shareholders, to rail performance and customer stakeholders and the wider society experience priorities Effective roll-out of a lean engineering approach across the bus division to reduce costs and improve productivity Contracts, bids and acquisitions Board objectives set for 2015 16 Highlights progress made against 2015 16 objectives Priorities for 2016 17 Consider further contract opportunities in the Successful win of two German rail contracts Bid for the West Midlands franchise German regional rail market Successful win of 25 route bus contract Continue to grow the business in Germany Bid for second tranche of work in the in Singapore through further contract wins Singaporean bus market London Midland awarded a new contract Bid for third tranche of work for the Direct award contract terms for enabling it to retain the West Midlands franchise Singaporean bus market London Midland until October 2017 Continue to ensure growth within the bus Continue to undertake careful analysis to Ongoing research and due-diligence to consider division and prepare for the threats and establish other opportunities which best further opportunities opportunities of bus franchising complement our portfolio, match our risk Work with stakeholders on the potential appetite and offer attractive returns for structure of a Southeastern bid in 2018 our shareholders Continue to undertake careful analysis to establish other opportunities which best complement our portfolio, match our risk appetite and offer attractive returns for our shareholders 64 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Finance Board objectives set for 2015 16 Highlights progress made against 2015 16 objectives Priorities for 2016 17 Reviewed the Groups dividend policy, including Continue refinement of dividend policy and Continue to monitor progressive dividend policy capital allocation and return opportunities return to shareholders where appropriate Maintain focus on strong financial discipline and Reviewed key financial policies, including Continue to review fuel hedging policy and best practice policies and processes delegated authorities and fuel hedging levels secured Execute the agreed transition plan for the change of statutory auditor Managed the transition of external auditor from Re-finance the corporate bond with an Ernst & Young LLP to Deloitte LLP appropriate instrument Respond to changes in the external regulatory environment to ensure best practice compliance New viability statement in this years Annual Maintain investment grade rating and reporting Report, with processes now in place to support this assessment annually Secured a bridging facility to provide a backstop option for repayment of the 200m corporate bond Risk and governance Board objectives set for 2015 16 Highlights progress made against 2015 16 objectives Priorities for 2016 17 Implement the changes required to comply with Review of processes to ensure full compliance Continue embedding the recent risk the updated 2014 Code including risk process with the 2014 Code management and internal control improvements and appetite and review effectiveness Independent review of risk framework, with Continue to review and strengthen cyber enhancements made to support the assessment Schedule deep dive reviews into key risk areas security policies and processes of risk and risk appetite and continue to develop risk appetite discussions and assessment More in-depth review of information and cyber security, including review of risk management, Implement the recommendations of controls, training and action plans professional advisors to continue to strengthen and enhance IT Systems across the Group New Board approved Enterprise Information Security Charter Review internal management of compliance and internal audit workstreams Internal audit review of IT security systems Participate and consult on developments in governance and best practice New priority for 2016 17: Culture As explained on page 33, during the year we introduced a new Group vision with supporting attitudes and beliefs.
The Board believes that strong governance and setting the correct tone from the top underpins a healthy culture, which in turn both protects and generates long term value for the business.
Our new vision is a world where every journey is taken care of.
It is future focused, aspirational and puts customers at the heart of our business.
It sets out where we want to be.
The Board has played an important role in leading this cultural change and has been mindful of the report on corporate culture and the role of board by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Board has a key role to play in influencing and shaping culture change as we embed it throughout the business and below are just a few of the Boards key priorities on culture over the year ahead: Lead by example and ensure good standards of boardroom behaviour Ensure the Groups strategy and business model are aligned to our new values Ensure Board behaviour and decision making is underpinned by our new values Agree the indicators and measures to evaluate and report on culture change Engage with shareholders, employees and other stakeholders Oversee the embedding and integration of the Groups values across the business Ensure we remain at the forefront of good governance, consult and engage as appropriate Dedicate time and resource to culture and the role of the Board The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 65 Corporate governance report continued Induction Effectiveness All new directors undertake a full induction programme either shortly before, or upon joining the Board.
This is a personalised induction Board composition programme tailored specifically to take into account their previous On 2 July 2016, the Board comprised the Chairman, three non-executive experience and background and is targeted to particular areas of focus.
directors and two executive directors.
Patrick Butcher became Group Chief It includes, amongst other things, the business of the Group: the legal and Financial Officer on 14 March 2016 after Keith Down stepped down as regulatory responsibilities of directors: meetings and briefings from members Group Finance Director on 6 December 2015. of the Board: opportunities to meet with local senior management at operating companies: and opportunities to meet with key advisors.
The biographies of all members of the Board, outlining the experience they bring to their roles, are set out on pages 60 and 61.
Ongoing development The Chairman regularly encourages the non-executive directors to Election and re-election to the Board continually update their skills, knowledge and ongoing familiarity with the All directors have submitted themselves for re-election at the 2016 Annual Group in order to competently carry out their responsibilities.
General Meeting with the exception of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer, who will offer himself for election for the first time in This is achieved as follows: accordance with the Groups articles of association.
Regular presentations at Board meetings from senior management on The nomination committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions matters of importance.
Examples during the year included presentations made by the directors continued to be effective, with the non-executive on key areas of risk, rail franchising opportunities and bidding, overseas rail directors exercising strong and independent oversight.
The nomination and bus strategy and matters of operational significance committee recommended that the Board should support the re-election of all directors.
Full details of the review of the Boards composition, the contribution of individual directors and time commitments can be found on pages 67 to 69.
Patrick Butchers induction My induction programme enabled me to quickly develop my knowledge of all parts of the business and to gain an understanding of the interaction between the Groups centralised functions and the devolved, autonomous operating companies.
Meeting shareholders and other stakeholders was an important part of understanding the link to the strategic priorities of the Group and the timing of my appointment was such that I was able to contribute to the new vision, attitudes and beliefs work before it was rolled out across the Group.
I believe that the positive cultural changes that these will evoke, underpinned by the customer centric approach, will differentiate us from our competitors and will support the achievement of our strategic goals.
Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer Expertise Overview of the Group Chief Financial Over 15 years experience as a finance director at Board level in Officers induction programme transport and infrastructure companies One-to-one meetings with members of the Board, including the Group Company Secretary One-to-one meetings with the Group executive team responsible for the Groups centralised functions Focus areas: Meeting with the local senior management teams in each of the Groups Group structure, including the devolved management approach operating companies, in addition to colleagues within the businesses and governance framework Meeting independently with both the internal and external auditors Understanding the key strategic priorities and how they add value and the key advisors to the Group and the Board to the Group Meeting with key financial stakeholders Understanding the key risks and the internal controls in place to mitigate the risks Training on his duties as a director, listed company regulations and the Groups governance framework and policies Group culture including embedding the new vision, attitudes and beliefs Reviewing investor feedback reports and introductory meetings Building relationships with key colleagues across the Group, stakeholders with a number of major shareholders and advisors 66 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The non-executive directors have a planned programme of operating The Board is confident that all of its members have the knowledge, ability company visits during the year, in addition to attending the Groups annual and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a management conference listed company.
Regular updates on the Groups businesses as well as updates on Board effectiveness review corporate governance, sustainability and legislative regulatory issues.
Updates are by way of written briefings from the Group Company Following the external review of the Board last year, it was agreed that an Secretary, presentations from management and presentations from internal review, facilitated by the Group Company Secretary, would be external advisors.
During the year under review updates again focused on undertaken this year.
the revisions to the 2014 Code, the new Market Abuse Regulations, the The key objective of the review, which was undertaken from April to August Modern Slavery Act and boardroom best practice 2016, was to build upon the improvements made after last years external Regular updates on political and market related issues as well as evaluation and to identify if there were any further changes that may compliance training.
During the year this included the Bus Sevices Bill and enhance the Boards effectiveness.
the referendum to exit the European Union Ahead of meeting individually with each Board member, the Group Equally, as part of their annual performance evaluation, directors are given Company Secretary distributed a discussion document which had been the opportunity to discuss any additional own training and development agreed with the Chairman and included a copy of the previous years needs.
Directors are expected to take responsibility for identifying additional evaluation report and action plan.
Following the individual meetings, the training needs and to take steps to ensure each is adequately informed Group Company Secretary briefed the Chairman on her findings before a about the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
final report was sent to all Board members ahead of discussion at the next Board meeting.
Progress against actions Good progress was made against the recommendations arising from the previous years external evaluation: Recommendations from 2014 15 Board evaluation Actions taken in 2015 16 The Board now discusses stakeholder management and corporate reputation at each Stakeholder management and corporate reputation Board meeting, with the Group Chief Executive providing a comprehensive update.
Consider how to maximise the non-executive directors There were also presentations from senior management across the Group who were participation in stakeholder management at the forefront of stakeholder management and corporate reputation.
The Board felt that there was now a good balance between presentations and Strategy development iteration discussions on the annual strategy day, with much more free-flow discussion.
Strategic Consider the timing and format of more regular strategy discussions were also becoming more business as usual as part of routine meetings.
updates The mid-year strategy review had become a regular feature in the Boards calendar, with the executive directors providing a more formal update on each of the key strategic priorities.
During the year, the Board had discussed and debated the current organisation Organisation and Group structure structure, in addition to considering succession and talent planning in the context of Review Group and organisation structure, and succession supporting the Groups strategic objectives.
Regular updates were now provided by the and talent planning to further support Group strategic Group HR Director, with more detail provided for critical key roles and individuals.
objectives Further details can be found in the nomination committee report on pages 80-83.
Top down consideration of risk During the year, the Groups internal auditor,  PwC, was asked to assess the Groups risk management approach, with a focus on the top down Consider new approaches to the assessment of risk risk management process.
A number of enhancements were subsequently made to the including how the Group improves its articulation of risk management which are explained in more detail on page 77. risk appetite Led by the Chairman, a comprehensive review of non-executive director rotation and Non-executive director rotation and succession succession had taken place during the year, which had included one-to-one discussions Plan for the next Board refreshment and crystallising with all non-executive directors.
A plan and timeline had subsequently been agreed, non-executive director rotation points in light of including all non-executive director crystallisation points, and this would now regularly future needs be reviewed at nomination committee meetings.
Further details can be found in the nomination committee report on pages 80-83.
The Board welcomed the more detailed information now provided as part of the Executive team development and diversity Group HR Directors regular updates and which enabled them to understand how the Develop internal and external candidate pools from executive team were being developed and how they were supporting succession non-traditional sources strength.
With the Groups new diversity steering group now firmly established, regular updates would now also be received on the Groups diversity and inclusion initiatives.
Further information can be found on page 83.
com 67 Corporate governance report continued Current themes and boardroom best practice In addition to reviewing progress against the actions from the previous years review, the one-to-one meetings with the Group Company Secretary also drew upon the current themes for boards and boardroom best practice in the context of Go-Ahead, including each individual non-executive directors own experience: The view was that successfully embedding the Groups new vision, attitudes and beliefs, with their underpinning customer centric view, would be a critical element in the Groups long term sustainable success.
There was an acknowledgement that Leadership work to embed culture change would present both opportunity and risk and the Board embraced the leadership role they and culture would play and their accountability for the governance of culture.
The Board welcomed the changes and initiatives underway to improve gender diversity below Board level, with the planned regular diversity steering group updates enabling the Board to be more informed about the progress being made and the industry challenges.
While the initial focus had been on improving gender diversity in the bus division, it would be important to Diversity consider all areas of diversity across the entire business with the ongoing work on vision, attitudes and beliefs helping to support and influence behaviours.
The Board felt that they had a good understanding of the risks to the business, with the work undertaken with PwC providing the assurance that risk management within the Group was effective in practice.
The Board welcomed the now regular deep Risk dives into key risk areas which during the year had included reputation, franchise bidding process, disruptive technology and cyber security.
The Board understood the importance of having a solid pipeline of high quality internal candidates who could be ready for senior management and Board positions in a range of situations.
The regular updates now received from the Group HR Succession Director enabled the Board to review internal talent and development practices in support of succession planning.
It would be planning important that this focus continued, with processes aligned to the new vision, attitudes and beliefs.
Board review highlights Opportunities to increase Board effectiveness Overall, the internal review this year concluded that the Board continued to The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness.
There were a function well with the dynamics, culture and effectiveness all continuing to number of opportunities identified as part of this years internal evaluation improve.
The small size of the Board was cited as a positive by all, primarily which could serve to further enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
These as it provided the opportunity for everyone to contribute.
Discussions were included: supportive, with open dialogue and constructive challenge, and individual Culture: A detailed review of the Boards role in the governance and members of the Board remained effective in their ability to discharge their oversight of culture, with the Boards dual leadership role of accountability duties and responsibilities.
and assurance The review also found Board information to be comprehensive and received Succession planning executive : Increased focus on alignment to strategic in a timely manner.
The role of the Chairman, and the formal and informal planning and corporate culture as a means of selecting the individuals best initiatives which were now a regular feature of the Boards operation, suited to the Groups future direction continued to be welcomed and it was this building of trust and the fostering Succession planning non-executive : To support the plan and timeline of good relationships both inside and outside the boardroom which had now agreed, assess existing skill set of the Board and undertake gap served Board discussions well during the year.
analysis of Board requirements to achieve a better link to strategy and There was general satisfaction that audit, nomination and remuneration Group culture committees were functioning well.
Risk: Embedding the recent improvements made to risk management processes during the year to ensure the Group remains at the forefront of effective risk management and best practice.
Focusing on key risk areas, such as reputational risk, and the actions taken to mitigate such risks Full details of the actions taken in response to these opportunities to increase Board effectiveness, including progress against them, will be provided in next years annual report.
68 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Individual director effectiveness Relations with stakeholders In addition to the evaluation of the Board and its committees, the Group One of the Boards key priorities is to build relationships with all of our Company Secretary also facilitated peer to peer director assessments which stakeholders through communication, collaboration and partnership involved each non-executive director completing a self-assessment working.
We recognise that in certain parts of our business there are questionnaire and a cross-assessment questionnaire on each other.
challenges, which we are working hard to address.
We strongly believe The questionnaires were designed to gain insight into the directors that these challenges are best met by working together.
perception and views of the nature of the relationship between Board members and whether the Board processes, support and interactions with its committees were appropriate.
Views were also sought on the administrative support for the Board and whether sufficient information and time were devoted to key issues and strategic matters.
Our people Communities Executive directors were not required to complete self-assessment High levels of employee Our businesses are part of the questionnaires or have cross-assessment questionnaires completed on them given that this process had taken place at their one-to-one appraisals.
The engagement, commitment and job local communities in which they satisfaction contribute directly to operate.
Our aim is to play a executive directors were required to complete a cross-assessment questionnaire on each non-executive director.
The constructive role in the villages, majority of our people are towns and cities we serve, The Group Company Secretary compiled the information from the members of trade unions and our working closely with local questionnaires into a report to ensure feedback from each director local teams look to foster good community groups.
The Chairman met with each director to discuss relationships with their findings from the questionnaires.
As in previous years, the Senior representatives.
Independent Director led the process of evaluating the performance of the Chairman, in consultation with the non-executive directors and with input from the executive directors.
Information and support Board procedures manual The Board is supplied with high-quality information, presented in a form Investors Governments and local authorities appropriate to enhance Board effectiveness.
A comprehensive Board As a publicly listed company we procedures manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the provide open and transparent Policy and regulatory changes working of the Board and its committees, delegated authorities, the timely information which enables affect our bus and rail business.
provision of appropriate information and the duties and responsibilities of informed investment decisions to Working closely with both central directors, including standards of conduct and compliance.
Providing information so and local government enables us regularly updated to ensure it is consistent with current best practice.
that investors can make informed to provide input into new policies decisions is a priority for us.
and ensure we receive regular Group Company Secretary Feedback from our shareholders feedback on our performance.
forms part of strategic discussions The Group Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice in the boardroom.
and is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with and that Board and committee papers are circulated to all directors by electronic means ensuring fast, timely and secure provision of information.
The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as secretary to the Board and its committees.
She reports to the Group Chief Financial Officer on all other company secretariat matters, including the management of the Groups bus pension arrangements.
Her biography can be found on page 61.
Strategic partners Customers and suppliers We need to know how we are Independent advice Professional relationships with performing and our passengers All directors may take independent professional advice, at the Groups core suppliers and strategic perception of our services so we expense, if they believe it to be necessary for the proper discharge of their partners help to ensure and can deliver change and duties as director.
support efficient delivery of our improvements.
We understand passenger transport services.
We our local markets and strive to Our key stakeholders have an ethical procurement meet our passengers needs, Collaboration with stakeholders and partnership-working is fundamental in policy demonstrating our values including accessibility.
Our new our approach and the long term sustainability of our business.
extend to our supply chain and vision, attitudes and beliefs have a those who do business with us.
As a leading provider of transport in the UK, we face a wide range of complex issues.
Some of those issues are within our control, some we seek to influence and others are more challenging to manage and require strong and collaborative relationships with our stakeholders, which can be seen to give us a positive advantage in our market.
For more about our relationships with our stakeholders, visit: www.
com Our customers, people, local communities, investors, both international and local governments, strategic partners and suppliers are our key stakeholders and all have a material impact on the successful delivery of our strategic targets.
com 69 Corporate governance report continued Our investor base is largely UK focused and as such we focus our IR Relations with shareholders programme in the UK.
Following our full and half year results we hold Go-Aheads Board has always been committed to reporting in a fair, investor roadshows in London and Edinburgh for institutional investors.
We balanced and understandable manner and places great importance on also typically attend the annual conferences held by our corporate brokers.
transparent, relevant and timely communication with shareholders.
In addition to these programmed events, we respond to meeting requests Throughout the year, we maintained open and frequent dialogue with from institutional and private holders throughout the year.
While key investors, providing updates on strategy, objectives and governance as well shareholder engagement activities are undertaken by the executive directors, as listening to and responding to questions.
overall responsibility for ensuring that there is regular and effective dialogue The Groups investor relations IR programme, managed by the Group IR with investors rests with the Chairman.
The Chairman held a number of team, includes regular dialogue between the executive directors and current meetings with shareholders during the year and is available to meet and potential shareholders through group and one to one meetings, investors and appreciates the opportunity to do so.
The Senior Independent presentations and conferences.
The executive team are also in regular Director and committee chairs are also available to meet key investors on contact with sell-side analysts and meet with broker sales teams to request and the Group Corporate Communications Director and Head of communicate the Groups key message to the people dealing with investors IR are available to provide updates on the Groups sustainability and broader every day.
We also communicate with the investment community through governance strategies to socially responsible investors.
regular news releases and trading updates.
Financial results and other The IR team provides the Board with regular reports and updates, including material news releases are issued via the London Stock Exchange as well as analysts reviews, analysis of the shareholder register and shareholder being published on our corporate website www.
Understanding our shareholders views is important to us.
The IR section of our website provides a wealth of information including a Following our full and half year roadshows our corporate advisors gather dedicated results centre, latest news, access to reports, presentations and detailed feedback from institutional shareholders which is presented to the other useful documents, as well as share price, market capital and other Board.
This forms an important part of the Boards strategic discussions and shareholder information.
Investors and other interested parties can subscribe also assists the IR team in improving the quality of communications.
to receive news through email updates by registering their details on our website.
Annual General Meeting AGM Our website is fully responsive, enabling shareholders to access information In addition to individual meetings, the principal communication with all on the move through a range of mobile devices.
shareholders is through the Annual Report and the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all directors and all shareholders are invited and encouraged to We continue to use other channels to engage with a wider audience attend as it provides an opportunity to develop their understanding of the through our social media accounts.
We also have a range of award-winning Group and ask questions.
There is also the opportunity to meet informally social media activities in place across our bus and rail companies, updating with the directors before and after the meeting.
passengers with realtime service information.
Combined, Go-Ahead and its companies are reaching 250,000 people on Twitter and 140,000 on Full details of the business to be discussed at the Groups next AGM on Facebook.
During the year we were awarded the most effective Thursday 3 November 2016 can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
This is communication of overall investment proposition and best use of digital sent to registered shareholders in advance of the meeting and will also be communications within the FTSE 250 category, at the Investor Relations available on our website at www.
Society Awards 2015 for the second year running.
More recently, we have been shortlisted for the best printed Annual Report in the 2016 Corporate & Financial Awards.
70 70 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016
