Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation Audit committee report Integrity of reporting We review the external audit findings to support the accuracy and completeness of reporting disclosures.
During the year this included ensuring consistency with the business model and strategy, providing assurance to the Board on the fair, balanced and understandable statement and assessing the new long term viability statement, more details of which are included in this report.
In conjunction with the external auditor, the committee also focused on a number of key areas where significant judgements had been applied which could have a material impact on the financial statements.
The committee discussed the assessment of the impact of the key judgements and the level of management challenge, particularly around provisions and accruals in the train operating companies.
As explained on page 120 the rail industry operates through a number of complex contractual arrangements between the DfT, Network Rail and our train operating companies.
Given the difficulties that the Group has experienced with GTR, the committee has focused on the key judgements exercised by management over the expected outcomes of negotiations with the DfT and Network Rail on the During the year, we enhanced our GTR franchise.
The committee is satisfied that the amounts recognised in risk management and internal the accounts are fair estimates of the likely outcomes.
More details on the significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty control framework can be found on page 75.
New external auditor Dear Shareholder Following a competitive tender process in 2014, the proposal to appoint Deloitte LLP as external auditor received shareholder approval at the AGM As Audit Committee Chair, I am pleased to present the audit committees on 22 October 2015.
Chris Powell was appointed as the lead engagement report for the year ended 2 July 2016. partner from the same date.
We take very seriously our governance requirements and the support we Management and Deloitte LLP have worked collaboratively to ensure a provide to the Board.
As a result of regulatory change in recent years, the thorough induction process has been undertaken.
The induction has enabled role of the audit committee has significantly expanded and it remains one of Deloitte to gain a deep understanding of the business, its systems and our key priorities to monitor and implement changes in the external processes.
On behalf of the Board, I thank Ernst and Young LLP for their regulatory environment and best practice.
The committee has welcomed the long-standing contribution to the Group over the years.
changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the 2014 Code and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Our remit also included ensuring that the scope of the external audit and and Business Reporting published in September 2014, which applies to the fee were appropriate and the effectiveness of the external audit was Group for the first time this year.
Our aim is to provide confidence in the monitored, which was particularly important this year with the transition integrity of the Groups processes and procedures in relation to internal from Ernst & Young LLP to Deloitte LLP.
control, risk management and financial reporting.
Looking forward to the next 12 months, the committee will continue to On the following page, we set out the committees objectives for 2015 16 focus on the audit, assurance and risk processes within the business.
and the progress we have made against these objectives.
We have also Further details of the committees activities during the financial year ended focused on a number of key areas during the year which are explained in 2 July 2016 can be found on the pages which follow.
more detail throughout this report.
Internal controls and risk The committee places great emphasis over the need to maintain sound internal control processes across the Group.
In particular, we will look to strengthen our controls over IT processes.
In addition to reviewing the internal control and risk management systems in place, we commissioned an independent review of the effectiveness of our framework.
This review was a robust assessment of the effectiveness of our existing risk management Adrian Ewer, and internal control framework and how well we monitor principal risks.
Audit Committee Chair As a result of this review, we made a number of enhancements which strengthen our approach to risk management and supports compliance 8 September 2016 with the new provisions of the 2014 Code and the spirit of the 2014 Codes guidance.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 71 Audit committee report at a glance Audit committee objectives Highlights progress made Priorities for set for 2015 16 against 2015 16 objectives 2016 17 Continue to monitor changes in the external Reviewed the significant financial judgements Assess the effectiveness of the enhancements regulatory environment to make sure that we made during the year and in the preparation made to systems of risk management and continue to have appropriate financial, of the 2015 16 Annual Report and internal control processes during 2015 16 compliance and internal controls in place Financial statements Continual assessment and improvement of cyber Support the transition of the external auditor Provided assurance to the Board on whether the security with focus on ensuring IT controls from Ernst & Young LLP to Deloitte LLP and 2015 16 Annual Report and Financial statements, remain robust and dynamic facilitate the induction of Deloitte LLP taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and Implement the recommendations of professional understandable Continue to ensure the committee is exercising advisors to continue to strengthen and enhance its assurance oversight in the best possible way Managed the independent review of the risk IT systems across the Group management and internal control framework, Support the Board in responding to the Monitor changes in the external regulatory and the implementation of a number of amendments to the updated 2014 Code, environment and best practice enhancements including assessment of risk appetite and the Ensure the committee is exercising its assurance statement on the Groups viability Considered the longer term assessment of the oversight role in the best possible way viability of the Group, including the financial and Review of scope and delivery of internal audit Carry out an assessment of the external auditors operational position of the Group and the effectiveness potential impact of the principal risks and Review of scope and delivery of internal audit uncertainties and monitor progress Oversaw the handover process from external Continue to oversee the significant auditor Ernst & Young LLP to Deloitte LLP financial judgements Reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process and recommendation on reappointment More information on pages 73 to 79 Committee at work - external auditor transition Audit committee membership Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor at the 2015 AGM Adrian Ewer Committee Chair following a rigorous selection process.
This involved six firms submitting a response to a pre-qualification questionnaire with three being shortlisted to provide presentations Katherine Innes Ker Senior to an audit tender panel the AT Panel comprising the Audit Committee Chair, the Independent Director former Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
The Board Nick Horler Independent approved the AT Panels recommendation to appoint Deloitte LLP due to their Non-Executive Director extensive experience, particularly in a listed environment, and their knowledge and experience of the transport industry, particularly the rail and bus sectors.
Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group Company Secretary Since then, the audit committee has overseen the transition of the external audit work to Deloitte LLP through a number of activities: An extensive handover with the former auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, was undertaken to ensure a smooth transition took place Attendance Deloitte LLP underwent a thorough induction process to enhance their Katherine Innes Ker understanding of our business, including meetings with our executive directors and senior managers across the business Deloitte LLP carried out a number of site visits across our operating companies Nick Horler Deloitte LLP created a detailed audit plan, setting out the scope and objectives of the audit together with an overview of the planned approach, an assessment of Adrian Ewer the Groups risk and controls, and proposed areas of audit focus Deloitte LLP has worked closely with the Group to consider key accounting matters that arose throughout the year Deloitte LLP completed a review of the interim results and carried out some advanced audit procedures on the period 10 results, and provided preliminary findings on the key financial and internal control matters 72 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Committee purpose and responsibilities Financial reporting The purpose of the committee is to monitor and review the Groups The primary role of the committee in relation to financial reporting is to financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness of its internal controls and review, with both management and the external auditors, the risk management framework, the internal and external audit processes and appropriateness of the half year and annual financial statements the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
The committee reports to the concentrating on, amongst other matters: Board on its activities and makes recommendations, all of which have been The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices accepted during the year.
Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where significant issues have been discussed with the external auditor Committee composition, skills and experience The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting The membership of the committee, which comprises three independent standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements, non-executive directors, has been selected with the aim of providing the including the 2014 Code range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to meet its responsibilities in a robust and independent manner.
Adrian Ewer is a Fellow Any correspondence from regulators in relation to the Groups of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and has significant financial financial reporting experience in the UK listed environment, enabling him to fulfil his role as An assessment of whether the Annual Report the Report, taken as a Audit Committee Chair.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and How the committee operates performance, business model and strategy.
This assessment forms the basis of the advice given to the Board to assist in making the statement The audit committee usually meets at least four times a year, excluding required by the 2014 Code meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
Members individual attendance at committee meetings for the Reviewing the assumptions and providing assurance to support the long year under review can be found on page 59. term viability statement Meetings of the committee generally take place immediately prior to a Fair, balanced and understandable Board meeting in order to maximise the effectiveness of collaborating with At the request of the Board, the audit committee has considered whether, in the Board.
Meetings are attended by the independent non-executive its opinion, the 2015 16 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, directors.
By invitation, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief balanced and understandable, and whether it provides the information Financial Officer and internal and external auditors regularly attend meetings.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, In order to ensure momentum is sustained and matters progressed, the business model and strategy.
Audit Committee Chair holds pre-audit committee meetings with key advisors between main committee meetings.
The steps that the committee followed before arriving at their recommendation were as follows: At least once a year, the non-executive directors hold separate meetings with the external and internal auditors, without the executive directors Collaborative process being present.
A collaborative approach is taken to creating the Report and Financial Statements which involves direct input from key report contributors, Terms of reference including the Board and committee, throughout the process and includes The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and the following: approved by the Board.
They are available on our corporate website at www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Early planning and implementation of timetable with experienced project managers for each section During the year, the committee reviewed the recently revised UK Corporate Briefings on the requirements of the fair, balanced and understandable Governance Code 2016 and the associated Guidance on Audit Committees requirements for all involved: this includes the Group corporate to reflect the forthcoming UK legislation on audit committees and auditor communications, company secretariat and legal teams as well as Group appointments.
The committees terms of reference and policy on non-audit finance to validate the appropriateness of material disclosed.
The inclusion services have been updated accordingly to ensure compliance.
of these various departments, with input from operating divisions as appropriate, ensures the balance, completeness and accuracy of Effectiveness of the audit committee the Report During the year, the committees performance was reviewed by the Group Validation of data and information included in the Report undertaken Company Secretary as part of the internal Board evaluation.
The review both internally and by the external auditor found the committee to be effective and well run, with the committee embracing the changes arising from the 2014 Code.
The resultant A series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across all sections enhancements to the processes supporting the assessment of risk and that aim to ensure consistency and accuracy internal controls, risk appetite and the statement on the Groups viability Early drafts of the Report available to the audit committee to ensure had added value, in addition to ensuring that the Group remained abreast timely review and allow comments to be incorporated of best practice.
Audit committee recommendation to the Board The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 73 Audit committee report continued In considering whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and External audit understandable, the committee reflects upon the information it has The committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship received and discussions throughout the year.
The committee considers with, and performance of, the external auditor.
This includes making the a number of key questions which include: recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor, assessing their independence on an ongoing basis and Is the Report fair?
Is the whole story presented and has equal weight been given to all messages?
Tenure Is the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting, with key Deloitte LLP were appointed as the Groups external auditor in October messages reflected in both?
2015 following an audit tender and, in accordance with the 2014 Code, the Group will be required to put the external audit contract out to tender by Is the description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, strategy 2025.
In addition, Deloitte LLP will be required to rotate the audit partner and objectives in the report consistent with the Boards understanding?
responsible for the Group audit every five years and, as a result, the current Are KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the lead audit partner will be required to change in 2021. financial reporting?
The committee continues to review the auditor appointment and the need Is the Report balanced?
to tender the audit, ensuring the Groups compliance with the 2014 Code Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative reporting in and the reforms of the audit market by the UK Competition and Markets the front and the financial reporting in the back of the report, and does Authority.
Accordingly, the Group confirms that it complied with the the messaging reflected in each remain consistent when read provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the independently of the other?
For the financial year ending 1 July 2017, the committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be Is the Report an appropriate document for shareholders?
reappointed under the current external audit contract and the directors will Are the statutory and adjusted measures explained clearly with be proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the 2016 AGM.
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the key External auditor effectiveness financial and internal control matters reported in this audit committee During the year, the Audit Committee Chair led the process to assess the report consistent with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and effectiveness of the audit process.
The primary purpose of this assessment critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
was to gain assurance that the external auditor had conducted a How do these compare with the risks that the external auditor Deloitte comprehensive, appropriate and effective audit.
It was particularly important LLP include in their report?
this year in order to set standards and expectations with Deloitte LLP, who had just completed their first full year as the Groups new statutory auditor.
Through a constructive, honest and open dialogue with the external auditor Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report, with the about its performance, the objectives of the process were to: important messages highlighted appropriately throughout?
Assess each phase of the audit process against a quality framework, as Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner that reflects shown in the table on page 76 the whole story?
Discuss with the external auditor what areas went well and what could be improved Conclusion Result in optimised assurance being derived from the audit Following its review, the committee concluded that the disclosures, and the processes and controls underlying their production, were appropriate and The assessment was carried out in conjunction with each key phase of recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial the audit.
Statements for the year ended 2 July 2016 is fair, balanced The observations from this assessment for the 2015 16 financial year were and understandable.
presented and discussed at the September 2016 Board meeting and it was concluded by the audit committee that the audit process was effective.
Long term viability statement During the 2015 16 financial year, the committees terms of reference were extended to include providing advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the long term viability statement.
The committee reviewed the process and assessment of the Groups prospects made by management including: The review period and alignment with the Groups internal long term forecasts The assessment of the capacity of the Group to remain viable after consideration of future cash flows, expected debt service requirement, undrawn facilities and access to capital markets The modelling of the financial impact of certain of the Groups principal risks materialising using several plausible scenarios Management also sought independent external advice on best practice to ensure appropriate compliance with the requirements of the 2014 Code.
Details of our viability statement can be found in the managing risk section on page 41.
74 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key financial and internal control matters During 2015 16, the committee considered the following key financial and internal control matters in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management and the external auditor Key financial and internal control matters for 2015 16 How the committee addressed these key financial matters Compliance with franchise terms and conditions relating to the rail The committee regularly reviews the accounting policies relating to components of the Group, specifically relating to the accounting for income and cost arising from franchise agreements.
At interim and year related income and costs arising from franchise agreements.
end reviews, a full schedule of material income statement and balance sheet is assessed against the committees expectations and discussed with Please see page 120 for further information.
the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer and, where appropriate, the external auditor.
Ongoing review of provisions for liabilities, specifically relating to At interim and year end, the levels of provision for third-party claims, lease third-party claims and lease return and dilapidation provisions for rolling return and dilapidation provisions are reviewed with the Group Chief stock, stations, depots, other properties and measurement of Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Managements review is uninsured liabilities.
supported by reports from appropriate third-party experts who independently assess the required provision based on their industry Please see note 24 of the consolidated financial statements for knowledge and an understanding of the Groups specific circumstances.
Increases in provisions, utilisation and release of provisions are all reviewed for reasonableness in light of these reports and the Groups specific circumstances.
Impairment testing in respect of the carrying value of goodwill on the The ongoing review of goodwill and carrying value of investments, as Groups investments.
presented by management, is challenged by the committee.
This is done by assessing the expected performance of the individual cash generating Please see note 13 of the consolidated financial statements for units and ensuring that relevant risk factors are imputed to the rate of further information.
return used to assess net present value of future cashflows.
The committee also reviews historic performance against expectations set in previous years.
Assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Groups defined benefit Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Group by pension liabilities.
Additionally the committee assesses the underlying assumptions with other professional advisors to ensure that the actuaries Please see note 27 of the consolidated financial statements for own assumptions are appropriate for the Group.
The committee also further information.
discusses the appropriateness of the assumptions with the Groups external auditor.
Ongoing review of changing issues such as the impact of the European The audit committees review of risks and uncertainties in the wider Working Time Directive on holiday pay.
economy encompasses emerging risks and considers each when appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The committee will seek specific legal or other professional advice to support its assessment of areas that could affect the Group.
Understanding and treatment of exceptional items in the year The committee will consider separate disclosure of exceptional income end accounts.
or costs in light of the FRC recommendations of a balanced and consistent approach.
The committee is mindful of the need to understand Please see note 7 of the consolidated financial statements for the underlying trends of each division within the business with the impact further information.
of large and unusual items separated out as necessary to avoid distortions from such non-recurring aspects.
Ensuring operating company compliance with Group policies and The committee, together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group procedures and maintaining the required financial control environment.
Chief Financial Officer, approves the scope of internal audit including the cycle of visits to test operating company compliance and financial control, based on a risk assessment.
The results of the internal audit visits are considered by the committee, together with managements responses to any improvement points.
Control matters and reporting issues identified as part of the external auditor interim and year end audits are also reviewed by the committee which considers the adequacy of any management responses.
In addition management ensure that the recruitment and review process for operating company directors gives confidence in the calibre of the operating company teams and their management, and review of the control environment in which they operate.
com 75 Audit committee report continued External auditor effectiveness The audit committee reviewed an audit quality framework which assessed the following key audit phases: Phase Areas covered Audit planning and design Team structure and leadership demonstrated by the audit partner Integrated audit approach Audit tailored to the business Leveraging sources of assurance Use of innovation and technology Audit execution Behavioural factors including professional challenge Technical excellence Communication and audit reporting Audit efficiency and project management Independence and quality control Review of external auditors internal quality control procedures Review of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor Consideration of audit firm transparency report in line with the 2014 Code, paying specific attention to the sections on independence and quality assurance and training Role of management Detailed questioning of the role of management both at operating company and Group level During the financial year, the principal external auditors fees were 0.6m Independence, objectivity and fees 2015: 0.5m : in addition, non-audit fees of 0.1m 2015: 0.2m were The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware payable to the principal auditor.
In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other of the situations that may give rise to the impairment of auditor providers during the financial year were 1.4m 2015: 1.5m.
The audit committee carefully considers the objectivity of the comprised of 1.1m being paid to KPMG in respect of bid-modelling costs auditor on an annual basis, in relation to both the audit process and the and 0.3m to PwC for internal audit work.
A limited number of our smaller operating companies used Grant Thornton In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the committee as their auditor during the year.
Total fees to Grant Thornton during the has, as part of its terms of reference, the following policy for the provision of financial year were less than 0.1m 2015: less than 0.1m.
Grant Thornton non-audit services by the external auditor: received non-audit fees of less than 0.1m 2015: less than 0.1m.
The auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it can be demonstrated that the engagement will not impair independence, is a natural extension of their audit work or there are other overriding reasons that make them the most suitably qualified to undertake the work The auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services to the Group, such as internal audit and litigation support: the full list of which can be found in the committees terms of reference The provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax services if the fees exceed a cumulative 50,000 is subject to approval by the audit committee The ratio of the external auditors audit to non-audit fees during the year, as a proportion of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review by the committee 76 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The review however did identify that risk management could be enhanced, How we manage the Groups risk management particularly around the assessment of the controls in place and the focus of and internal control system discussions throughout the process.
A number of enhancements were The Boards responsibility therefore made to our risk management process: The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of Risk registers have been updated to rate more effectively the strength internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Some of these of the control mitigation in place and the effectiveness of the responsibilities have been delegated to the audit committee as outlined assurance provided below.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure To improve the formal biannual discussions at operating company board to achieve the Groups business objectives and can only provide reasonable meetings, a new self-assessment document has been created with the aim and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
of helping management consider what are the most important risk and control areas to discuss.
This then flows up to the audit committee and Internal control and risk management Board, thus ensuring the right risk management discussions at this level The key roles and responsibilities of each of the respective functions within These enhancements were introduced for the year ending 2 July 2016 and the Groups system of risk management are detailed on page 41. the committee found that these changes improved the effectiveness of their During the year, the committee commissioned PwC, which is also the review of the internal control and risk management systems.
The committee Groups internal auditor, to undertake an independent review of the Groups will continue to review whether there are further enhancements that can be existing risk management processes.
The review found that Go-Aheads made, particularly in the context of PwCs review and the new requirements approach to risk management is supported by a structured oversight and of the 2014 Code.
established processes for identifying, quantifying, reporting and monitoring risk.
In particular, PwC noted that: Key features of the Groups risk management and internal control system There is an inherent and embedded understanding of the key risks facing The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management the Group on a day-to-day basis system are set out on the following page.
The Board has confirmed that Strategic risk perspectives and operational risk issues are brought to the through its audit committee and the committees review of the key financial attention of the Board by the Group Chief Executive through hands-on and internal control matters for 2015 16 as detailed on page 75, it has management of the business reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and Willingness to take on risk is debated by the Board as a normal part of compliance controls and risk management, and considers that this system of decision-making.
The Groups risk appetite is inherently understood internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to Appropriate governance structures are in place to provide oversight over the date on which the financial statements were signed.
key risks and controls at Group, rail and bus operating company level.
Risk is regularly discussed through these structures Periodic risk reporting takes place from the operating companies to the audit committee and Board in line with the agreed process and methodology Risk and opportunities are actively identified during the bid process for new franchises or acquisitions Key risk areas are identified, assessed and prioritised Progress against actions is monitored by senior management, the executive directors and the audit committee The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 77 Audit committee report continued Key features of the Groups risk management and internal control Group structure The Groups devolved organisational structure supports an effective top-down bottom-up approach to risk management and control Compliance management Leadership Annual certification by each Clear leadership from the Board operating company that it has adhered to the Groups policies and with the executive directors playing an integral role in working with procedures manual, which reinforces the Groups corporate governance, operating companies internal control processes and management of risk Strategy and financial reporting A comprehensive Group-wide Board-level reporting system of financial reporting, Regular review of reports received budgeting and cash forecasting and control through which the from the Groups internal auditor, health and safety consultants, consolidated financial accounts are prepared and submitted to the external auditor and the executive directors Board monthly and from which the interim and annual consolidated financial reporting is derived Health and safety reporting Health and safety standards established across all operating companies and key performance indicators monitored on a monthly basis at operating company and Board level 78 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Internal auditor Focus on cyber security The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to PwC on a rolling 12 month contract, with overall responsibility and direction being Go-Ahead continues to focus on ensuring retained by the audit committee.
The internal audit function provides it is protected against the threat of cyber assurance over the effectiveness of key internal controls as identified as part of the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings with local security attack as resilient IT systems are management, the internal auditor reports to the executive directors at least essential to our commercial success.
We six times a year and to the audit committee at least four times a year.
take the protection of data security and privacy seriously and have policies in place The committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with PwC and maintains the procedures necessary to ensure appropriate to ensure our data is handled sensitively, independence of the internal audit function.
with respect, and in a way that complies, as a minimum, with any legal requirements.
In accordance with the previously agreed internal audit plan for the two years ending June 2017, the committee reviewed reports confirming the Our Board of directors has endorsed an internal Enterprise Information Security Charter demonstrating its commitment to findings from the internal audit reviews undertaken, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in these reports and the status of treating information and cyber security as a critical business issue.
Work has been carried out across the Group to create a progress against previously agreed actions.
security-aware workforce and working environment and to implement controls that are proportionate to risk.
We have also Whistleblowing and anti-bribery procedures ensured that individuals who are information owners are The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, accountable and understand and comply with information security openness and accountability.
The Group and all operating companies have policies and procedures.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully All employees of the Group have responsibility for information and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be taken.
Any matters of and security and an ongoing communications campaign, alongside significance are reported to the audit committee.
regular briefing and training sessions, ensures its importance is appreciated.
We have recently created a new aide-memoire for The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act and procedures have operating companies to help them identify incidents and ensure been established to ensure that compliance is achieved.
These set out what theyre reported internally.
We regularly review our crisis response is expected from employees to ensure that they protect themselves as well and probe for vulnerabilities in our automated and manual as the Groups reputation and assets.
Training has been provided to the responses.
Board and senior management and is refreshed on a regular basis.
Any breach of the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially However, it is vital that as technology and law change our business justifying immediate dismissal.
procedures also change and follow industry best practice.
We therefore work with data protection agencies and IT advisors to strengthen our systems and procedures.
We also update our procurement systems and processes to ensure that our supplier base understands the importance of this issue and we are members of industry groups and London Firsts Security and Resilience Network supported by world experts in security counter terrorism, resilience, business continuity and policing.
