Strategic report People, relationships and resources Supporting long-term, sustainable performance through our people, relationships and resources For 104 years Grainger has been Our Property team is responsible for Sustainability targets rentingout homes.
The importance delivering capital growth, while our We set annual and long-term ofproviding shelter to our customers Operations team is responsible for targetsto deliver improvements isalways at the front of our minds incomegrowth.
See the business model inour sustainability performance andinforms every action and decision across our core impact areas as they section of this report forfurther details.
We recognise the weight of relate to our sustainability strategy.
Afull list of targets and our progress Employee engagement has been a key against them is available on the focus of the leadership team over the sustainability section of our website.
course of the year, a period of challenges and change within the organisation, including internal restructuring and thesale of two business divisions.
Online sustainability We have a range of communication www.
co. uk responsibility forums for employees to engage in which occur at regular intervals.
They A culture aligned to our strategy aredesigned to encourage two-way Graingers success is predicated on communication across all levels within morethan just our property portfolio.
the business where we are all able to Critical to our sustainable future are contribute towards Graingers strategic 2015 16 2014 15 ourpeople, our relationships with progress andimprovement.
Feedback Achieved 6 Achieved 9 Partially achieved 4 Partially achieved 5 customers, partners and suppliers, from this years survey has resulted in a Not achieved 2 Not achieved 2 andour impact on the world around number of initiatives, such as the creation Total 12 Total 16 us.
Our investment in these areas is of new forums for communication.
essential to the success of our business.
The Executive Directors are directly Through an established set of bi-annual We are proud to be recognised as responsible for people issues, including performance reviews, we help people aresponsible business, achieving well-being and health & safety.
The HR grow and progress, including career FTSE4Good recognition, Green Star Director supports the Executive team planning and development discussions.
ratings for both Grainger and GRIP ona day-to-day basis, and the Board Alongside performance, we monitor key REITby the Global Real Estate receives a standing report on such metrics, such as turnover and sick days.
Sustainability Benchmark GRESB issuesat every meeting.
anda Gold forEPRAs Sustainability Our Share Incentive Plan and Save As You Best PracticeReporting.
Investing in people to deliver Earn Plan with most employees taking strategicperformance advantage of at least one align staff The Board recognises the increasing Providing our customers with a good interest with the success of the business significance of the culture of the business.
home and ensuring that they are happy and our strategy.
The Board works with the Executives in in their home through efficient and Developing our people setting the corporate culture and its cost-effective operations is central values.
As the business goes through a toour business model.
Our culture period of change, the role of culture in andvalues are about creating a work Emerging the business will be of further importance environment whereby staff are focused, leaders to ensure that Graingers values are aligned andworking together towards aligned to the newly focused strategy these unifying objectives.
and that good standards of behaviour are Graduate embedded and integrated across the This year we restructured the businessto programme Leadership Company.
In addition, the Board will align everyones role and remuneration team regularly review and monitor Graingers directly to our strategy ofdelivering a culture to ensure that it is reflective of the balance of capital growthand income Companys purpose and values.
growth and driving operational efficiency.
24 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report We are helping create strong and desirable communities Leadership and succession planning acore component of this and we their activities in a safe manner.
An Grainger is committed to being a support diversity in the workplace.
example of this is the introduction greatemployer and providing career ofanintegrated safety, health and progression paths throughout the Health and safety environmental management system in business.
Starting with our successful Grainger is committed to protecting Wellesley, which allows us to maintain graduate programme, we provide a thehealth, safety and welfare of our and control standards across our supply supportive environment for learning, employees and customers, and those chain on this large, diverse project.
Our culture supports a positive and proactive Protecting human rights Diversity approach to health and safety which Due to the nature of our business and In order for Grainger to be the best isdesigned to be both pre-emptive and our supply chain, we do not consider provider of rental homes to the most proportionate.
Through appropriate therisk of human rights abuses a number of customers, it is critical that policies and procedures we ensure that material risk.
Following the Modern we understand all our customers.
It is we meet our obligations as a Slavery Act 2015, we are undertaking essential for us to create an environment responsible business through aninternal review of the requirements where we can share experiences and influencing our supply chain to the and implications for our business and insights to understand our customer greatest extent possible and ensuring withinour supply chain.
We will publish base and to make our business more that everyone in Grainger is responsible aModern Slavery Act Transparency resilient.
Diversity in the business is for health and safety and performing Statement as required in 2017.
Working with our partners Employee profile Male Female Total FY16 Non-Executive Directors 3 60% 2 40% 5 andsuppliers Executive Directors 1 33% 2 66% 3 The relationships we have with our 1 Senior Managers 14 78% 4 22% 18 partners and suppliers are fundamental 2 Employees 69 35% 126 65% 195 toour business model.
Our partners 3 Total staff 84 39% 132 61% 216 supplement and complement Graingers Total staff FY15 117 41% 166 59% 283 position and enable us to amplify our business activities, and they are an 1 Senior employees with strategic input and influence.
2 Excluding six roles scheduled for redundancy in late 2016, post financial year end.
We therefore 3 Excluding Non-Executive Directors.
work very closely with them and ensure Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 Strategic report People, relationships and resources continued that our contracts require them to futuremanagement of the estate Managing our impact on uphold the high standards we set so andcommunity.
theenvironment thatwe deliver the products and As both an owner and developer of services that ourcustomers expect, Grainger is an active contributor to property, we are mindful of our impact andensure thatwemake a positive theUK housing debate and engages on the environment and our approach impact, drive performance and proactively with central and local helps secure the future success of the managerisk accordingly.
government to positively influence business and protect the value of policy to enable our sector to invest ourinvestments.
Working with our neighbours inmore good-quality homes for rent.
towardsa better future Creating new homes that are desirable but We believe that much of our success Through charitable giving, both employer also resilient and sustainable is critical to relies on the success of the communities 14,467 and employee-led 29,280, we protecting future value for Grainger and is and areas in which we operate.
collectively gave 43,747 to both local and centralto the specifications and designsof national charities, including our charity our developments.
We are therefore committed to partner, LandAid, which is committed workingalongside our neighbours toending youth homelessness by 2026.
We actively monitor and take wherewe are either based or have Through Graingers policy of providing actiontoreduce our impact on the significant investments.
We do this adays paid leave for volunteering, environment.
Our policies, procedures, through a number of ways, including employees provided 35 days for governance structure and decision everything from organising family fun charitablecauses this year.
making processes, such as our days for residents through to supporting Environmental Management System and local community events and working Where we are developing new refurbishment programmes, are designed closely with other stakeholders to homesand neighbourhoods, we to take our environmental impact into positively influence the future.
For undertake andalso support initiatives account and reduce it wherever possible.
instance, at our development at Young that underpin thefuture success of Energy efficiency isaparticular focus as Street in Kensington, London, we are thearea and community.
we look to the introduction of Minimum working with our building contractor, Energy Efficiency Standards in 2018.
This Ellmer, and have introduced a residents Our business model enables us to offer year, we achieved full EPC coverage on panel to provide an open forum for arange of housing options, including GRIP REITs portfolio and have developed communication and engagement.
At those at a more affordable level for those a strategy to understand and manage Wellesley we have a Residents Trust on low incomes, while ensuring that each therisk across our other portfolios, which consists of a board of residents asset is still commercially viable.
whileat Wellesley, one of our major who will make decisions about the EPRA Sustainability Performance We report on all EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures for all our property portfolios.
Detailed tables that illustrate our performance in line with the EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations are available on the sustainability sectionof our website.
For more details on our sustainability efforts, pleasevisit our website: www.
co. uk responsibility 26 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report developments, more than 99% Summary of target performance materiality review, which the Company ofallwaste is recycled back into Graingers target performance was not able to complete in 2016, will thedevelopment.
mustbeplaced in the context of the support this goal and strengthen the significant changes to the Companys Companys commitment to transparency Greenhouse gas emissions report leadership and operations that have as evidenced by the welcome decision to We are committed to measuring taken place over the past 12 months.
align its 2016 sustainability reporting with andreducing the carbon emissions Overall, Grainger achieved four of its the Core in accordance with requirements associated with our property portfolios seven newtargets for 2016, and two of the recently published Global Reporting and our own operations.
In accordance outof thefive targets that were Initiative GRI Standards.
with the Companies Act 2006 carriedover from 2015.
StrategicReport and Directors Report Grainger continues to perform strongly Regulations 2013, we report on all Progress was made as Grainger inrelation to the real estate sector more greenhouse gas emissions within our continued to embed sustainability broadly.
Both Grainger plc and GRIP REIT operational control pages 87 and 88.
We intoits core processes and procedures, formerly GRIP Unit Trust achieved continued to improve our performance in with successes this year including the Green Star status in the 2016Global the CDP Climate Change programme, creation of a green lease clause to be Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark achieving a B score for 2016, reflecting rolled out to commercial leases, the GRESB Assessment, andachieved four our commitment to good environmental integration of sustainability into out of five stars in thenewGRESB Rating.
management and effective disclosure of Graingers development specification This places it inthetop two quintiles for our processes and procedures.
and successful pilots of whole life real estate companies globally based on costing and tenant focus groups.
Advisers statement Grainger has engaged Upstream A full review of Graingers operating While Grainger has put on hold its Sustainability Services, JLL, as advisers model resulted in the decision to place targetto study the impact on staff onits sustainability strategy and two 2016 targets on hold.
The remaining wellbeing of its offices, health and implementation since 2005.
Our four targets that are in progress will be wellbeing is also an area where the programme of work includes assisting carried over for completion in 2017.
Grainger was Grainger plc with setting sustainability one of only 174 real estate organisations targets and reviewing performance against Observations and recommendations globally to complete the voluntary these targets at year end.
DuetoJLLs The significant organisation and Health and Wellbeing module in the long-standing relationship withGrainger strategic changes that have taken place 2016 GRESB Assessment.
Its score of plc, the review of target achievement and during 2016 have meant that three of 75% places it comfortably above the this statement itselfcannot be considered Graingers sustainability targets were global average of 58% and reflects its entirelyindependent.
either made redundant or had to be put sector-leading approach.
We encourage on hold until the changes have been Grainger to build on this strong start JLLs observations and recommendations fully implemented.
The organisational and investigate further the benefits to are based on analysis of documents, changes nonetheless provide Grainger both tenants and Company that can interviews and or other secondary with an opportunity to realign its becaptured by integrating health and evidence provided by Grainger plc and sustainability strategy to reflect its new wellbeing into its sustainability strategy.
It is an opportunity we efforts were made to check the quality, encourage Grainger to capitalise on, and accuracy and credibility of the available over the next year we recommend that information but this did not include the Company reviews its sustainability sitevisits or audits on primary data strategy to ensure that it continues to Claire Racine e. g. meter readings and invoices.
deliver value for its business.
Associate Director Consequently, this statement does Upstream Sustainability Services JLL notrepresent formal assurance or Key to this will be making sure that 1 December 2016 verification of the sustainability Grainger focuses on its most significant contentof Grainger plcs 2016 sustainability impacts in order to channel AnnualReport and Accounts.
An updated Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27
