Governance Governance Accountability Internal control Adetailed annual budget is produced The Board regularly reviews the The Board is responsible for reviewing eachyear, together with longer-term Groupsprocesses for internal control and approving the Groups system of projections in accordance with the agreed and conducts a formal annual review internal control and its adequacy and strategy, which are presented tothe ofthese processes and the risks relating effectiveness.
The Group has a cyclical Board for consideration and approval.
No significant failings process for identifying, assessing and Afundamental part of the control orweaknesses were identified from managing its significant risks, which has process is the diligent monitoring of thisreview in the year.
been in place for the full year under actual performance against this budget review and up to the date of approval by the Board.
Where applicable, revisions ofthe Annual Report and Accounts.
are made to expected out-turn against Theprocess is designed to enable the whichfurther progress can be monitored.
Boardto be confident that such risks A detailed monthly management aremitigated or controlled as far as information pack is prepared, which possible.
It should be noted, however, covers each major area of the business that no system can eliminate the risk and includes detailed consolidated results offailure to achieve business objectives and financial information for the business entirely and can only provide reasonable as a whole.
The performance of each and not absolute assurance against business area is reviewed monthly by material misstatement or loss.
both divisional management and the Executive Committee and is The Audit Committee is delegated the subsequently reported to the Board.
task of reviewing all identified risks, with the ultimate key risks retained for full The Board also discusses in detail the Board review.
The Audit Committee projected financial impact of major reports to the Board at every Board proposed acquisitions and disposals, meeting subsequent to ameeting including their financing.
All such of that Committee.
Risks and controls proposed substantial investments are are reviewed to ensure effective initially considered by the Investment management of appropriate strategic, Committee which comprises all the financial, operational and compliance Executive Committee and certain senior issues.
The Audit Committee also reviews managers.
The Board is also responsible the half year and full year financial for reviewing and approving the Groups statements.
In addition, the Group treasury strategy, including mitigation outsources its Internal Audit function against changes in interest rates.
The which performs relevant reviews as part Groups processes for internal control of a programme approved by theAudit have been in place throughout the year Committee.
The Committee considers and have sought to implement the FRC any issues or risks arising froman Internal Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Audit review, so that appropriate actions Control and Related Financial and are undertaken to ensure satisfactory Business Reporting.
Internal Audit has a direct contained in the Audit Committee report.
reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51
