Governance Audit Committee report Audit Committee report Attendance table Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member Member since attended to attend Andrew Carr-Locke Committee Chairman March 2015 4 4 1 Belinda Richards April 2011 3 4 Tony Wray November 2011 4 4 Rob Wilkinson February 2016 3 3 Andrew Carr-Locke Andrew Carr-Locke, Belinda Richards and Rob Wilkinson have recent and relevant financial experience Committee Chairman as required by the Code.
1 Belinda Richards was unable to attend the September 2016 meeting due to an alternative commitment, which was notified in advance to the Committee.
The Audit Committee currently comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Deloitte which reports directly tothe Company restructured in order to Dear Shareholder Committee and which works against implement its PRS strategy.
This is my first year of chairing anagreed plan to ensure that controls Graingers Audit Committee.
As part of the FRCs work programme time, we have refined the process of we were fortunate to receive a report governance having regard to the change One of the Committees other key onthe quality of the external audit in committee structure since 2015, responsibilities is ensuring that the carried out by KPMG LLP KPMG andreviewed the work-streams for Groups published accounts have integrity ofourprior year accounts, itbeing consideration by the Committee.
In andareconsistent with accounting thefirstaudit carried out by KPMG particular, during this year of strategic andgovernance requirements.
In sinceitsappointment following change, the Audit Committee has achieving this we have given particular successful tender in 2014.
Wefound carefully considered the risk consideration to the viability statement thisindependent input both helpful management framework designed having regard to the new strategic focus andreassuring.
bythe Executive and the processes in of Grainger.
This included interrogating connection with internal controls that the financial models and related The regular challenge and engagement were applied during the year under sensitivity analysys of various economic with management, the external auditor review and going forward.
In addition, we have and the internal audit team, together of thisframework and Graingers concentrated on the fair, balanced and with the timely receipt of high-quality risk appetite are contained on pages understandable requirements for the reports and information from them, has 30 to 33.
In this regard we are enabled the Committee to discharge its helped by receiving a number of duties and responsibilities efficiently.
As a matter of course the Committee appropriate papers from the Chief considers its terms of reference each Financial Officer and her team and I would like to record my thanks for the year, taking into account changes to by the independent work of our internal support of the other members of the Grainger and to external governance andexternal auditors.
Committee, to Graingers Finance team, requirements.
In addition, we develop to Deloitte and to KPMG fortheir aclear work plan through the year to We respond to developments during thorough approach.
ensure that we fulfil all our theyear as required, focusing on key responsibilities.
Atthe core of those matters which arise in addition to our responsibilities is ensuring that the planned work programme.
This year, Company is operating aneffective risk thesale of the German and Retirement assessment and management process Solutions businesses were key events.
Andrew Carr-Locke and that an appropriate control We have concentrated on appropriate Chairman of the Audit Committee framework is in place.
We are helped by accounting for these disposals and the 1 December 2016 the Internal Audit team at Deloitte LLP risk and control environment as the 54 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Significant matters relating to the Groups 2016 financial statements The most significant matters considered by the Committee and discussed with the external auditor in relation to the Groups 2016 financial statements were as follows: Property valuations We received reports from management on the assumptions tobeusedinvaluing the Groups property assets.
In considering 1 theproposals wemet with external valuers.
We reviewed the valuations and, in the case of reversionary assets, thesuggested discount rates provided.
We also confirmedthat theexternal valuerswere sufficiently independent fromtheGroup.
Managements recommendations in relation to the Directors valuations were scrutinised against external evidence andtheverification work completed by the external valuers.
We were content, after due challenge and debate, withthe assumptions and judgementsapplied.
Exceptional and The Committee considered managements accounting proposals non-recurring items inrespect of: 2 the costs and profits of the disposals during the year of Graingers Retirement Solutions andGerman businesses, and the classification ofthese divisions as being held-for-sale and presented asdiscontinued operations: and the costs being incurred in connection with the restructuring of the business in order to implement the PRS focused strategy.
The Committee concurred with the accounting treatment of such matters.
Accounting for unusualcontracts The Committee reviewed managements proposal for accounting for the Companys contractual arrangements with the Royal Borough of 3 Kensington and Chelsea in respect of the various sites located around the borough.
The contract will be accounted for as a cost plus contract in line with International Accounting Standard IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
In line with the provisions of this standard, revenue will be recognised as it is earned through the duration of the contract.
Profits will be recognised to the extent that recoverability is considered probable.
The Committee concurred with the accounting treatment for this arrangement.
Fraud risk from revenue In respect of the presumed risk offraud in revenue recognition by recognitionand management overstatement and management override of controls, the Committee 4 override of controls considered the presumed risk of fraudas defined by auditing standards andwas content that there were noissues arising.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Governance Audit Committee report continued Fair, balanced and understandable requirement ofthe Code.
The Objectives TheCommittee has undertaken a assessment included areview of the The Board has delegated authority to detailed review in assessing whether principal risks facing the Group, their the Committee to oversee and review the2016 Annual Report and Accounts financial impact and how they were the Groups financial reporting process, isfair, balanced and understandable, being managed, together with a system of internal control and and whether it provides the necessary discussion as to the appropriate period management of business risks, the information to Shareholders to assess for assessment.
The Groups viability internal audit process, the external audit the Groups performance, business statement is on page 34. process and relationship with the model and strategy.
The Committee external auditor, and the Companys reviewed and made suggestions to the Invitations to attend meetings process for monitoring compliance with processes put in place by management A standing invitation has been made by applicable laws and external regulations.
to provide the necessary assurance the Committee to the Chairman of the Final responsibility for financial thatappropriate disclosures are Board and the Executive Directors to reporting, compliance withlaws and made.
The Committee considered attend the Committees meetings.
regulations and risk management rests managements assessment of items Senior management from Graingers with the Board, towhich the Committee included in thefinancial statements Finance team and representatives of regularly reports back.
andthe prominence given to those theinternal and external auditors attend items.
This review process also included all meetings at the invitation of the Meetings receiving a near final draft of the Annual Committee.
During the year the external The Committees core work isdriven Report in advance of the November and internal auditors attended all bya structured programme of activity 2016 Committee meeting.
This was meetings and also met privately with settled at the start of the year between accompanied by a reminder of the areas the Committee.
the Committee Chairman, management the Committee should focus on having and the external auditor.
Aswell as its regard to the Audit Committee Institute Role and responsibilities core work, the Committee undertakes guidance in this respect, and how such The Committees role and additional work in response to the guidance can be applied to the draft responsibilities areconcerned with evolving audit landscape.
The Committee, and financial reporting, narrative reporting, non-exhaustive list provides highlights subsequently the Board, were both whistleblowing andfraud, internal of the Committees core and additional satisfied that, taken as awhole, the 2016 controls and risk management systems, work undertaken during theyear: Reportand Accounts is fair, balanced internal audit and external audit.
Terms of reference Going concern The Committee has documented terms The Committee reviewed the of reference which are approved by the appropriateness of adopting the going Board.
Theyare reviewed at least concern basis of accounting in preparing annually andwere last reviewed at the the full year financial statements and Committees meeting in March 2016. assessed whether the business was The Committees terms of reference viable in accordance with the new comply with the Code and can be foundon the Groups website.
56 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Key activities 11 November Received and considered KPMGs 2015 Audit Reviewed KPMGs objectivity and the independence Highlights Memorandum.
and effectiveness of KPMGs processes, and 2015 Received and considered a summary of the FRC Audit recommended to the Board KPMGs reappointment Quality Review report into the Big Four auditfirms.
Reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts for Reviewed the procedures manual for Graingers the year ending 30September 2015 including the Treasury team.
viability statement and compliance with the fair, Received an Internal Audit report on Graingers balanced and understandable principle and the going Treasury team, assessed progress against the concern assessment.
internal audit plan and approved Internal Audits Reviewed the Groups Gifts and Hospitality work plan for the next financial year.
Register and Directors expenses for the year.
Reviewed Graingers whistleblowing arrangements Reviewed the effectiveness of the and considered a report in this regard, noting that Committees performance.
no notifications had been made either by the Assessed the performance of the external auditors whistleblowing hotline or by other methods.
and reviewed their programme of work.
9 February Received and considered a paper on proposed risk Received Internal Audit reports on the progress management process and approach pursuant to the against the Internal Audit programme, payments 2016 new PRS focused strategy.
and receipts, procurement, revenue interrogation, Considered KPMGs 2016 Half Year Audit Plan.
This was post-transaction operation delivery planning, data pursuant to a decision by the Committee to instruct governance and project delivery management KPMG to carry out a Half Year Review.
The current ofakey IT project.
intention is for such a review to be carried out in Reviewed the Audit Committee terms of reference, futureyears.
including giving appropriate consideration to the assumption of duties and functions of the Board Risk and Compliance Committee.
17 May 2016 Received and considered managements judgements Received and considered the results of the Audit and estimates in relation to the interim financial Quality Review carried out by the FRC in respect statements, in particular theclassification of the ofKPMGs audit of the Groups financial statements German andRetirement Solutions businesses as for the year ending 30September 2015. discontinued operations.
Received Internal Audit reports on insurance, health Received managements analytical review of the Groups &safety and investment and financial appraisals.
results for the sixmonths ended 31 March 2016: reviewed Received and considered reports on the Groups and approved the draft Interim Financial Statements principal risks, update onregulatory matters and for thatperiod for recommendation tothe Board.
Received and considered KPMGs half year report Received and recommended to the Board a revision for the six month period ended 31 March 2016. tothe Companys tax policy.
5 September Received an update onthe Groups accounting policies Reviewed Graingers whistleblowing policy, systems and considered the clarity of such policies.
for notifications and results in that regard.
There 2016 Received and debated a paper regarding a refocusing were no issues of concern highlighted.
of the Internal Audit strategy to align withthe wider Received an update on the changes to the audit Group PRS strategy.
regulatory regime, Corporate Governance Code Received and considered a report on the proposed andListing Rules.
viability statement to be included in the 2016 Annual Received a report on the Groups riskmanagement Report and Accounts.
framework pursuant to the restructuring of the Received and considered KPMGs Audit Strategy Company and reviewed Graingers principal risks.
Memorandum in connection with the audit for year Reviewed Graingers policy on instructing external ending 30 September 2016. auditors in respect of non-audit services having Received a verbal report from the Chief Financial regard to the changes required to the EU Audit Officer regarding the quality of the finance function Directive and the related regulatory regime.
and succession plans for senior members of the team.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Governance Audit Committee report continued External auditor objectivity Services which the external auditor is External auditor appointment andindependence prohibited from providing to the Group KPMG has been Graingers external The objectivity and independence of include, amongst others: auditor since successfully tendering theexternal auditor are critical to the in2014 and carried out its first audit integrity of the Groups audit.
theyear theCommittee reviewed preparation of financial information theexternal auditors own policies The design, supply or implementation The Committee discussed the andprocedures for safeguarding its of financial information systems implications of the Competition and objectivity and independence.
There are Appraisal or valuation services Markets Authoritys Order requiring no contractual restrictions on the Group Internal audit services FTSE 350 companies to hold an audit with regard tothe external auditors Actuarial services tender every ten years, as well as the appointment.
Theaudit engagement recently introduced Statutory Auditors partner provided his annual Fees paid to KPMG during the year are and Third Country Auditors Regulations representation to the Committee as set out in the table below: 2016.
Due to the relatively recent to the external auditors independence appointment of KPMG, the Committee Year ended and confirmed that KPMGs reward and was satisfied that it was not optimal 30 September remuneration structure includes no to tender external audit services in the Schedule of fees 2016 incentives for him to cross sell non-audit current year.
The Committee noted that, Statutory audit of 210,000 services to audit clients.
KPMG duly based on the prevailing legislation, a Grainger Group applies the requirement to rotate audit New UK GAAP 32,000 competitive tender for external auditor conversion work partners every five years and therefore must be heldno later than 2025.
Total audit fees 242,000 such rotation will be due in respect of Half year review 30,000 the 2020 audit.
The Committee monitors the Non-statutory certificate 11,500 performance of the external auditor on Berewood The Committees assessment of KPMGs throughout the year and formally development site independence is underpinned by the concludes the assessment of its German tax advisory 48,000 Groups policy on the use of KPMG for performance following conclusion of services the provision of non-audit services.
Thereafter, Luxembourg tax 4,000 This policy was reviewed during the year, the Committee makes a corresponding compliance services having particular regard to the impact recommendation to the Board on the Work relating to disposal 27,000 ofthe recent introduction of new audit appointment of the external auditor of retirement solutions regulations.
The policy contains a Total non-audit fees 120,500 forthe forthcoming financial year.
presumption against the use of the Shareholders formally appoint the external auditor for non-audit services.
In addition, a further 8,000 for external auditor atthe AGM in February.
KPMG may only be engaged for the auditservices was billed by KPMG In light of the assessments and review provision of non-audit services in toWalworth Investment Properties undertaken, theBoard endorsed the contravention of that presumption Limited, the joint venture in which Committees recommendation which where those services are expressly Grainger has a 50% shareholding.
was approved by shareholders in permitted under the policy and where February 2016.
When considering the itis demonstrable that the external The Committee was satisfied that appropriateness of the re-appointment auditor is best suited to undertake theoverall levels of audit related and of KPMG as the Groups external auditor theservices.
The policy includes the non-audit fees were not material relative for the forthcoming year, the Audit requirement that non-audit services to the income of the external auditor Committee took account of its review must not be carried out by the external firm as a whole.
It was satisfied that the ofthe external auditors independence auditor unless prior approval of the objectivity and independence of the and objectivity, the ratio of audit to Audit Committee Chairman has external auditor was maintained non-audit fees and the effectiveness of been obtained.
the audit process, together with other 58 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance relevant review processes conducted Internal Audits plans and resources throughout the year.
The Committee areconsidered, monitored and approved also had regard to the positive results of by the Audit Committee, together with the Audit Quality Review carried out by all internal control findings and remedial the FRC in respect of the 2015 audit.
Internal Audit has a direct The Committee was satisfied that it reporting line to the Chairman of the should recommend to the Board the Audit Committee.
The effectiveness re-appointment of KPMG as the ofInternal Audit is assessed by the Companys external auditor.
review of its reports, meetings with theChairman of the Audit Committee Internal Audit without management being present, As referred to above, Deloitte is and feedback from senior management appointed by the Companyas Internal andthe Chief Financial Officer to assess Auditor.
Internal Audit undertakes audits viewson the effectiveness of across Grainger using a risk-based InternalAudit.
methodology and inaccordance with the changing risk profile of the Company.
In respect of the Internal Audit Individual auditsare supported as programme for 2017 and thereafter, appropriate byspecialist skills and subject pursuant to the strategic change in matter expertise.
Audits are identified thebusiness to focus on the PRS sector, during anannual audit planning cycle, and the related restructuring of the which is informed by the results of Groupsoperating model, the Internal current and previous audit testing, the Audit strategy and forward plan have Companys strategy and performance similarly been redesigned.
The revised and the risk management process.
approach will focus on providing assurance, process improvement and Additional audits are identified during value adding insights around Graingers the year in response to changing priorities core processes, complemented by an and requirements.
All Internal Audit appropriate and proportionate number findings are graded, appropriate remedial of targeted risk reviews on principal risks actions, responsibilities and timeframes and or areas of management request are agreed with management, and and concern.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59
