Governance Nominations Committee report Nominations Committee report Attendance table Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member Member since attended to attend Baroness Margaret Ford Committee Chairman February 2012 2 2 Belinda Richards February 2014 2 2 Tony Wray February 2014 2 2 Andrew Carr-Locke March 2015 2 2 Baroness Margaret Ford Committee Chairman Key responsibilities The Nominations Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: currently comprises the Chairman ofthe Board and three independent review the size, balance and constitution of the Board, including the diversity Non-Executive Directors.
and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Non-Executive Directors: consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: Dear Shareholder identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates tofill The Nominations Committee plays Board vacancies: afundamental role in ensuring the review annually the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors: and selection and recommendation of make recommendations to the Board, in consultation with the respective strong candidates for appointment Committee Chairmen, regarding membership of the three Board Committees.
The Committee monitors the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Process for Board appointments Main activities of the Committee Board and its Committees, with any Prior to making an appointment, the during the year changes recommended to the Board for Nominations Committee will evaluate The Committee met twice formally its review and decision.
The Committee the balance of skills, knowledge and during the year to 30 September 2016. is also responsible for succession experience on the Board.
Pursuant to The Committee has a number of planning and monitors talent this evaluation, a specification of the standing agenda items which relate to development at senior management personal attributes, experience and its key responsibilities detailed above.
2015 was a particularly busy year capabilities required to effectively Inapplying those responsibilities, the for the Nominations Committee with perform the relevant appointment will Committee considered, discussed and significant change to the Board and its be drafted.
The Committee will also made decisions in relation to a range of Committees.
2016 has therefore been make any recommendations to the matters throughout the course of the focused on embedding the changes that Board concerning the appointment year, the most significant of which are took place.
This report details the main ofany Director and of the Company specified below.
It is highlighted that the activities of the Nominations Committee Secretary.
In circumstances where 2015 Nominations Committee report undertaken during thecourse of the external recruitment or benchmarking specified certain changes to the Board year in fulfilling itsresponsibilities.
of an internal candidate is appropriate, that would take place during the course the Committee will engage the services of the 2016 financial year.
These of an independent external search changes have now taken place and, for consultancy to assist in preparing the completeness, are also included below: appointment specification.
Baroness Margaret Ford Committee Chairman 1 December 2016 60 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Board changes Search consultants Andrew Cunningham and Mark The Committee engaged the Zygos Greenwood retired from Grainger Partnership Zygos, an independent in January 2016 and December executive search consultancy, for the 2015 respectively.
recruitment of Directors during the Helen Gordon joined Grainger course of the year.
The Board confirms as Chief Executivedesignate on that Zygos is not connected with the 3 November 2015 and took up Company in any other way.
Vanessa Simms joined Grainger as Diversity the Companys Chief Financial Officer The Directors are committed to in February 2016. havingabalanced Board which Rob Wilkinson joined the Board as an includesdiversity of perspectives, independent Non-Executive Director skills, knowledge and background.
In in October 2015. respect of gender diversity specifically, the Board supports Lord Davies Committee changes aspiration to promote greater female As previously reported, Belinda representation on listed company Richards was appointed Senior boards, and notes the significant positive Independent Director and Chair of the progress that has been made in this area Remuneration Committee in 2015. in respect of FTSE 350 companies since Therefore, the Nominations the original Davies report was published.
Committee reflected on the All appointments to the Grainger Board appropriate balance of the Committee are made on merit, and within this Chairmen and members, whilst having context the Directors will continue to due regard to time commitment, skills have regard to the recommendations and experience, and was of the view ofthe Davies report and the issue of that it was in the best interests of the diversity as it and best practice develop Company to appoint Andrew Carrfurther.
As at the date of this report, Locke as Chairman of the Audit female representation at Board level Committee in place of Belinda.
Page 25 contains details further agreed that in the interests ofthe gender split of all Grainger staff.
ofcontinuity Belinda would remain amember of the Audit Committee.
Following a review of the membership of the Committees having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, it was subsequently decided to appoint Rob Wilkinson as amember of the Audit Committee.
Inaddition, Rob has a standing invitation to attend meetings of theNominations Committee should he choose to do so.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
