Governance Board of Directors The skills and experience to deliver our strategy The Board is responsible to the Skills, competence and experience: Companys Shareholders for the Vanessa brings extensive financial long-term success of the Group, experience to Grainger from the property itsstrategy, its values and sector in the UK.
expertise in leading andimplementing strategic change inbusinesses.
She has substantial experience in senior finance Helen Gordon MRICS leadership roles in a listed environment.
Chief Executive Vanessa has worked in finance since 1998 Aged: 57 and immediately prior to joining Grainger Appointment: Appointed to the Board held a number of senior positions within in November 2015.
Unite Group plc, including deputy chief Skills, competence and experience: financial officer.
Prior to that Vanessa Baroness Margaret Ford Helen is a highly experienced, proven was UK finance director at SEGRO plc.
Chairman and well regarded real estate investor.
Tenure: 10 months Aged: 58 She has significant experience working Committee membership Appointment: Appointed to the Board across a wide range of real estate asset E in 2008, became Senior Independent classes, including residential property.
Director in February 2014 and Chairman This is combined with an extensive in February 2015. knowledge of the City.
Helen is a Skills, competence and experience: Chartered Surveyor and before joining Margaret has wide-ranging experience Grainger was Global Head of Real Estate in a number of sectors and extensive Asset Management of Royal Bank of knowledge of the residential property Scotland plc.
She previously held senior market.
She has substantial plc level property positions at Legal & General experience including chairmanship of Investment Management, Railtrack and Nick Jopling FRICS both boards and committees.
She is John Laing Developments.
Helen has Executive Director currently chairman of STV Group plc held a number of non-executive board Aged: 55 and is a non-executive director of roles over her career, including British Appointment: Appointed to the Board SEGRO plc.
She is an Honorary Waterways and the Covent Garden in2010 as Executive Director with Professor of Real Estate at Glasgow Market Authority.
She is also an responsibility forproperty.
University and an Honorary Member Advisory Board member of Cambridge Skills, competence and experience: ofthe Royal Institution of Chartered Universitys Land Economy Department.
Nick has approximately 30 years Surveyors.
Margaret formerly chaired Tenure: 1 year experience in the residential property the Olympic Park Legacy Company, Committee membership sector.
He has substantial knowledge English Partnerships, Barchester and expertise in relation to residential E Healthcare Limited and May Gurney property transactions and asset and Integrated Services plc.
Prior to these property management.
Nick was appointments, Margaret had a long previously with CB Richard Ellis where he career in management consulting was executive director of residential.
He withPrice Waterhouse and then is a member and former chairman ofthe Eglinton Management Centre, which Urban Land Institutes UK Residential shefounded.
She sits in the House Council and was a member of Sir Adrian ofLords as an independent peer.
Montagues committee that produced Tenure: 8 years the review Barriers to Institutional Vanessa Simms FCCA Committee membership Investment in Private Rented Homes.
Chief Financial Officer Tenure: 6 years Aged: 41 N R Committee membership Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer E in February 2016.
44 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Executive Committee Nominations Committee E N Audit Committee Committee Chairman A Remuneration Committee R Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and was group finance director at George Wimpey plc between 2001 and 2007.
He has previously heldsenior finance roles at Courtaulds Textiles plc, Diageo plc, Bowater-Scott and Kodak.
More recently, Andrew was Belinda Richards Tony Wray executive chairman of Countryside Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Properties where he led the refocus of Aged: 58 Aged: 55 the companys strategy.
Andrew stood Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board down as a director of Countryside inApril 2011 and appointed Senior in October 2011.
He is currently a Independent Director in March 2015.
Skills, competence and experience: non-executive director of Dairy Crest plc Skills, competence and experience: Tony brings extensive experience in a and previously held non-executive Belinda has a wide-ranging experience broad range of senior operational and directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, and understanding of commerce, strategic leadership roles, in particular Venture Production and AWG.
He was the chief Tenure: 2 years She has strong experience as a board executive of FTSE 100 water company Committee membership member of other substantial listed Severn Trent plc from 2007 to 2014, A N R companies.
Until 2010, Belinda was a having joined its board in 2005.
He has senior partner and vice chairman at also held director roles within Transco Deloitte where she was head of Merger and National Grid Transco, and was a Integration and Separation Advisory member of the Water UK board.
Prior to this, she held senior Tenure: 5 years roles at KPMG and EY.
Belinda is a Committee membership non-executive director of Wm Morrison A R N Supermarkets plc, The Monks Investment Trust plc and Aviva UK Life Rob Wilkinson and Pensions.
She was previously a Non-Executive Director non-executive director of Balfour Beatty Aged: 44 plc and Friends Life Group plc.
Belinda Appointment: Appointed to the Board serves on the Advisory Group of Audit in October 2015.
Committee Chairmen at the Financial Skills, competence and experience: Reporting Council and is a member of Rob has substantial experience in real the Governing Council of the Centre for estate and corporate finance.
Rob is a Andrew Carr-Locke the Study of Financial Innovation.
Chartered Accountant and the chief Non-Executive Director Tenure: 5 years executive of AEW Europe, a leading Aged: 63 Committee membership European real estate investment Appointment: Appointed to the Board manager.
Prior to joining AEW Europe in March 2015.
A R N in2009, he was a managing director Skills, competence and experience: with the Goodman Group and also held Andrew has substantial experience investment banking positions at UBS insenior finance positions in listed and Eurohypo.
Rob is also chairman companies, particularly in respect ofthe Green Rating Alliance.
Tenure: 1 year He alsohas wide-ranging experience Committee membership asanon-executive director of public companies.
Andrew is a Fellow of the A Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
