Governance Effectiveness Following feedback from the Directors in visiting a number of Grainger properties atthe appropriate time.
At each Board the 2015 Board evaluation, the standard and sites in London.
meeting the Chief Executive provided a Board schedule increased the number review of the business setting out how it offormal meetings throughout the year The Board has a list of matters was performing and details of strategic from six to seven, with the additional reservedto it and a rolling annual plan issues arising.
meeting being focused on strategic of items for discussion, agreed between matters.
These meetings were duly the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Board activity table below sets out heldtogether with a further meeting to The list of reserved matters and annual examples of the range of subjects that discuss the role of the regulated tenancy plan are reviewed regularly to ensure were debated and considered by the portfolio in relation to the strategic that allmatters reserved to the Board, Board throughout the year.
The Board also spent aday as wellas other key issues, are discussed Board activity Strategic People Financial Governance Property transactions and operations Strategy has been the Executive and Review of the Groups Regulatory and Material transactions key focus of the Board Non-Executive Director debt and capital governance issues, and business during the year.
including receiving opportunities including, Additional Board development.
The Groups financial briefings on the Market amongst others, the meetings were held to The development of performance and Abuse Regulations and acquisition of Clippers debate the proposed the Groups people.
results throughout amendments to the Quay, Kings Dock Mill, PRS focused strategy, The Board also theyear.
UK Corporate Kew Bridge Court and simplification ofthe received a presentation Dividend policy to Governance Code.
business and the role of from the Human reflect the transition Shareholder relations, Supply chain the regulated tenancies Resources Director on toan income focused in particular the management, with in the business plan.
This included thorough engagement particular focus on The disposals of the across the Company.
receiving a with investors in keyrepairs and Companys German The HR structure of presentation from one connection with maintenance contracts.
and Retirement business in connection of the Companys theproposed Health & Safety, which Solutions businesses.
with implementation brokers, Numis, in Remuneration Policy.
included a presentation Goldman Sachs gave a ofthe new strategy respect of the Reports from the to the Board from presentation regarding and target operating proposed policy.
Nominations, Audit the Health and domestic and model.
Reviewed and and Remuneration Safety Director.
international real Evaluation of the approved an updated Committees.
estate and equities effectiveness tax strategy.
The Companys an update in respect portfolio of interest of mergers and rate hedges, including acquisitions activity the decision tobreak in the sector.
and recoupon two Competitor activity material hedges.
inthe growing Corporate and PRSsector.
operating overheads Economic and and the related cost legislative landscape, reduction plan.
including the impact KPIs for a PRS focused of the referendum business.
onmembership of Assessed the strategic theEU.
merits or otherwise of Risk management and a share buy-back appetite, in particular programme.
with regard to the newstrategy.
Requirements of a REIT conversion and the application and Split of Board activity effectiveness of this to Grainger or parts of its 35% 5% 25% 10% 25% business, such as GRIP.
48 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Board meetings 2015 16 Board meetings Site visit ofthe Non-Executive Directors has anyconflict of interest that has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with Oct Jan Apr Jul the Companys Articles of Association.
Nov Feb May Aug Dec Mar Jun Sep Access to independent advice All Directors have access to the adviceand services of the Company Attendance table to 30 September 2016 Secretary who ensures that Board processes are followed and high Meetings Meetings eligible Executive Directors attended to attend corporate governance standards are Helen Gordon 8 8 maintained.
Any Director who considers Vanessa Simms 5 5 it necessary or appropriate may take Nick Jopling 8 8 independent, professional advice at Andrew Cunningham 1 1 theCompanys expense.
None of the Mark Greenwood 1 1 Directors sought such advice in the current year.
Meetings Meetings eligible Induction and professional Non-Executive Directors attended to attend Baroness Margaret Ford 8 8 development 1 Belinda Richards 7 8 The Chairman, supported by the Tony Wray 8 8 Company Secretary, is responsible for Simon Davies 1 1 ensuring that a comprehensive and Andrew Carr-Locke 8 8 tailored induction to the Company is Rob Wilkinson 8 8 provided to each Director.
This was duly carried out in relation to Helen Gordon, 1 Belinda Richards was unable to attend the March 2016 Board meeting due to illness.
Rob Wilkinson and Vanessa Simms who joined the Board during the course of Board Committees high-level papers on each business area, theyear.
The Board has established three key metrics and specific papers relating principalBoard Committees to toagenda items.
The Board papers Each new Director met with the whichithas delegated certain of its areaccompanied by a management Company Secretary in the year and responsibilities.
They are the Audit information pack containing detailed discussed their particular induction and Committee, Remuneration Committee financial and other supporting training requirements.
This covered and Nominations Committee.
The Board also received matters such as Directors duties, membership and activities of these presentations from various business corporate governance, share dealing Committees are described in more units, including Human Resources, and theuse of the Companys electronic detaillater in the Corporate Legal, Risk and Governance, IT and Board portal.
In the case of Rob Wilkinson, to give Information flow Time commitment himan insight into the Group, he met The Chairman, together with the The Board, supported by the Nominations with Executive Directors and senior Company Secretary, ensures that the Committee, carefully considered the managers from across the property, Directors receive clear information on external commitments ofthe Chairman operational and central functions of allrelevant matters in a timely manner.
and each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Rob also met with key Board papers are circulated sufficiently The Board issatisfied that each such third-party relationships such as the in advance of meetings for them to be Director committed sufficient time during external auditor and principal thoroughly digested to ensure informed the year to enable them to fulfil their corporatelawyers.
The Board papers contain the duties as Directors of the Company and Chief Executives written report, has capacity to continue to do so.
None Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Governance Effectiveness continued In addition, Rob visited Graingers The Board is confident that all and development.
The Chairman, Abbeville development to view itsmembers have the knowledge, Company Secretary and Human Graingers purpose built PRS units.
abilityandexperience to perform Resources Director will consider thefunctions required of a Director thisfeedback accordingly and make As Executive Directors, Helens and ofalisted company.
proposals to the Board to seek to Vanessas inductions adopted a different improve this area.
emphasis and focused on familiarising Performance evaluation them with the business, its staff, The annual evaluation of the Board The review of the Chairmans operations and core processes.
Having andits Committees for 2016 was led performance, which was led by this understanding of the business at the bythe Chairman and the Company BelindaRichards as Senior Independent commencement of their employment Secretary through completion of a Director, concluded that the Chairmans was fundamental in order to identify the detailed questionnaire relating to the leadership and performance were strategic change that was required and effectiveness of the Board and its effective and of a high standard.
the consequential reshaping ofthe Committees and thereafter individual Groups operating model.
meetings with each of the Directors.
The Board and its Committees will TheCompany Secretary collated the monitor progress and continue their Training and updating in relation to a results of the questionnaire and these critical review of its effectiveness during range of matters is provided to Board were considered by the Chairman and the year ahead.
In accordance with the members throughout the year.
Subjects reported to the Board as a whole.
prevailing provisions of the Code, it is the include the business of the Group, legal Theoverall results were positive and current intention of the Board that the and regulatory responsibilities of the indicated that the Board, its Committees next external facilitation of the Board Company and changes to accounting and individual Directors were all evaluation will be carried out in 2017, requirements.
This training and operating effectively and demonstrated being three years since the previous updatingis delivered by a combination a commitment to the role.
of presentations by Grainger senior ofthe key findings arising from the management and external advisers evaluation are summarised as follows: Re-election of Directors andby circulation of appropriate Board We continue to adopt the papers and briefing materials.
Individual Board meetings are conducted in an recommendations of the Code that Directors are also expected to take effective manner which encourages allofthe Directors offer themselves for responsibility for identifying their own open discussions, with appropriate re-election annually, notwithstanding training needs and to ensure that they time allocated to key issues and that the Companys Articles of are adequately informed about the strategy in particular.
Association require the Directors to offer Group and their responsibilities as Committees are performing to a themselves for re-election every three aDirector.
Therefore, in accordance with the Whilst there is always room for Code all current Directors, with the improvement, good progress on the exception of Vanessa Simms, will stand quality of Board information has been for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
As it made, which strikes an appropriate will be Vanessas first AGM as aDirector balance between being concise and of the Company, she will be subject having sufficient detail.
toelection by theShareholders at the Input from each of the Directors 2017 AGM.
during this year of strategic change was effective and constructive.
In light of the performance evaluation Further improvements can be made in summarised above and the provisions relation to the structure and approach ofthe Companys Articles of Association, of Non-Executive Director training the Board recommends that all of those The Board on a site visit to one of our PRS Directors proposed for election and developments in partnership with the Royal re-election are so elected and re-elected Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
50 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
