Governance Leadership Governance framework The Board Chairman, three Executive Directors  Board Committees Management Committees Executive Committee Has responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Principal Management sub-committees which support : Investment Development Finance GRIP Operations Market Disclosure The Board matters ofstrategy, performance, The Executive Committee The Board is responsible to the resources including key appointments This Committee operates under the Companys Shareholders for the the overall approach to risk mnagement direction and authority of the Chief long-term success of the Group, its and internal control, culture and Executive.
Itoversees theday-to-day strategy, its values and its governance.
runningoftheproperty, operational andcorporate business functions The role of the Board TheBoard sets the Groups strategic ensuring coordination, alignment of The Board provides leadership of objectives, and approves and monitors theCompanys strategic objectives theGroup and, either directly or business plans and budgets submitted andrisk management oversight.
throughthe operation of committees by the Executive Directors and senior ofDirectors and delegated authority, management.
The written statement applies independent judgement on ofmatters reserved tothe Board is reviewed and approved annually by theBoard.
46 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance The Executive Committee is supported Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director by sub-committees each focusing on an The Non-Executive Directors are The Senior Independent Director area of the business.
The key objectives responsible for bringing independent isavailable to Shareholders if they of these sub-committees are to ensure: and objective judgement and scrutiny requesta meeting or have concerns, toall matters before the Board and its where contact through the normal the delivery of the strategic plan: Committees, using their substantial and channels has failed to resolve the issue that all business functions and wide-ranging skills, competencies and or where such contact is inappropriate.
The key responsibilities of No such requests were received from advantage to the Company: and Non-Executive Directors are set out in Shareholders during the year.
The Senior effective oversight of the systems their letters of appointment and include Independent Director leads the annual and controls in order to manage risk.
requirements to: performance review of the Chairman.
Chairman and Chief Executive challenge and contribute to Balance of Directors The posts of Chairman and Chief the development of the Executive are separate and their Companys strategy: rolesand responsibilities are clearly scrutinise the performance of established, set out in writing and management in meeting agreed agreed by the Board.
The Chairman goals and objectives and monitor isresponsible for running the Board and thereporting of performance: and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief to satisfy themselves that financial Executive reports to the Chairman, as information is accurate and that does the Company Secretary on matters financial controls and systems of corporate governance.
The Chairman ofriskmanagement are robust is the guardian of the Boards decision anddefensible.
making and is responsible for ensuring Chairman aconstructive relationship between A copy of the standard letter of Executive and Non-Executive Directors appointment for a Non-Executive Executive Directors and for fostering an open culture where Director is available from the Company debate is an appropriate balance of Secretary on request.
The NonNon-Executive Directors robust challenge and support.
Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive Directors present.
The Chief Executive is responsible for There have been three such meetings running the business and implementing since 1 October 2015 and an additional the Boards decisions.
She chairs a regular meeting of the Non-Executive Directors meeting with the other Executive without the Chairman or the Executive Directors and the additional members Directors present where the Chairmans ofthe Executive Committee.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47
