CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination committee report I am pleased to introduce our nomination committee report for 2015 16, which explains the committees focus and activities during the year, a key part of which related to my own appointment as a non-executive director and chairman-elect.
Having now taken over as chairman of the board and of the nomination committee I shall endeavour to ensure that the committee continues to focus on succession planning and on ensuring that the size, composition and structure of the board is appropriate for the delivery of the groups strategic objectives and that allrelevant provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code continue to be met.
Philip Yea Chairman of the nomination committee Membership aformal recommendation to the board that Philip Yea be appointed tothe board, initially as a non-executive director and member of the During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim Bridge.
nomination and remuneration committees, with a view to him taking over The other members of the committee were Mike Coupe, Ian Durant, as chairman of the board from the start of the current financial year.
The RobRowley, Lynne Weedall and Philip Yea following his appointment as handover process worked well, giving Philip Yea time for a well-planned and adirector in February 2016.
Apart from Tim Bridge, all members were extensive induction process, and participation in two board meetings, considered by the board to be independent.
On Tim Bridges retirement at including thestrategy sessions, before taking over as chairman.
the end of the financial year Philip Yea took over as chairman of the committee.
The committee has also begun the search for a new non-executive director Responsibilities to replace Ian Durant who will be retiring at the AGM in September.
TheZygos Partnership has also been appointed to conduct the search, The key responsibilities of the nomination committee are to identify, with the aim of finding a suitable candidate.
evaluate and nominate candidates for appointment to the board, to review regularly the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge In terms of committee composition, it was noted that Rob Rowley would and experience of the board and to make recommendations to the board be taking over as chairman of the audit committee on the retirement of with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
Ian Durant, given his recent and relevant financial experience as former finance director of Reuters Group plc.
Philip Yea, initially appointed to be The committee is also responsible for considering the companys succession plans for board members and senior management, taking into account the a member of both the nomination and remuneration committees, became chairman of the nomination committee and stood down from the remuneration challenges and opportunities facing the company, and what skills and expertise committee with effect from the beginning of the current financial year.
are therefore needed on the board in the future, and for reviewing membership Noother changes were recommended to the composition of the of the boards committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed boardcommittees.
The issues of succession planning and board structure will remain the ongoing Activities during the year focus of the committee during the course of the forthcoming year.
The committee held three meetings during the year.
Attendance at these On the recommendation of the nomination committee, and taking into meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on page 49. account the continuing effective performance of the directors, the board Tim Bridge advised the non-executive directors during 2015 that he was has decided once again this year to ask all ongoing directors to stand for considering retiring from the board, and so a key activity for the committee re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Philip Yea was to find a suitable successor to him.
The committee reviewed a panel of whowill be standing for election for the first time.
head hunters to assist them in the process and chose The Zygos Partnership, Other matters considered by the committee during the year included the which has no other connection with the company and which has signed up board evaluation exercise, training requirements for directors and the to the voluntary code of conduct on matters such as diversity for executive committees terms of reference.
In conjunction with them, a job specification and a profile ofthe likely characteristics, qualifications, experience and merits required Diversity were produced before starting the search, with the aim offinding a short The board approves of the principle of trying to recruit more women into list of candidates suited to the role, without prejudice between male senior management and director roles.
There is currently one female director andfemale candidates.
on the board, Lynne Weedall, who is chairman of the remuneration committee.
A long-list of candidates was initially drawn up for the role, from which With a board of seven people, the board believes that the key is to ensure ashort-list evolved after extensive discussions by the committee.
Rob Rowley, a suitable range of skills, experience and knowledge across the board members, as senior independent director, as well as all the other members of the and that the issues of gender and diversity are just two considerations nomination committee and Rooney Anand, the chief executive, then tobe taken into account when filling board vacancies.
interviewed the short-listed candidates before the committee made Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 51
