CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee report Membership I am pleased to introduce our The audit committee was chaired during the year by Ian Durant.
The auditcommittee report for 2015 16. other members of the committee were Mike Coupe and Rob Rowley.
Thecommittees key responsibilities Allmembers are considered by the board to be independent.
The board is satisfied that Ian Durant has recent and relevant financial experience, as include monitoring the integrity of the former finance director of Liberty International plc, since renamed as thegroups financial reporting, internal Intu Properties PLC, and the current audit committee chairman at Home Retail Group plc.
Looking forward Rob Rowley, who is the former finance controls and risk management procedures, director of Reuters Group plc, will take over as chairman of the committee overseeing the internal and external following Ian Durants retirement from the board at the AGM in September.
audit processes and a range of other Responsibilities corporate governance activities.
A key responsibility for the audit committee is reviewing the financial reporting, controls and risk management processes across the group.
During the year the committee devoted particular Thecommittee assesses the external audit conclusions on both the full attention to the following key areas: the year-end year and interim results, in each case prior to their submission to the financial statements and interim report and associated board.
Whilst the board retains responsibility for undertaking the required audit matters, with particular focus on the accounting assessment that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, treatment of certain matters arising as a result of the theaudit committee this year, at the request of the board, has undertaken acquisition of Spirit Pub Company: the relationship with a review of this prior to submission of the annual report to the board, the external auditor, including audit tender and audit asdetailed below.
partner rotation review: and risk management processes and internal controls.
In particular the committee The committee also reviews the companys internal control systems, reviewed the viability statement on page 37 before advises the board on the appointment of external auditor, oversees itwas recommended to the board.
therelationship with the external auditors, and reviews the quality and effectiveness of both the internal and the external audit.
In addition, I will be retiring from the board at the AGM in September thecommittee is responsible for considering the companys whistle and therefore, during 2016 17, under the stewardship of blowing procedures and reviewing their effectiveness in practice.
Rob Rowley, the committee will continue its focus on the financial statements, on governance matters and In relation to risk matters, the committee reviews the groups risk on risk management, whilst at the same time ensuring management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board that the new Ernst & Young audit partner, as explained and receives detailed reports on the risk management processes within below, has a full and detailed understanding of the issues the business units and key functional areas.
The committee receives facing the business and is able to deliver a robust and regular updates on regulatory, accounting and reporting developments detailed audit of the groups financial statements.
andtheir application to the company.
Operation of the committee The committee held three half-day meetings during the year.
Attendance at these meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on Ian Durant page 49.
On each occasion the external auditors, chief financial officer and Chairman of the audit committee senior members of the finance function attended, as well as the company secretary, head of risk and members of the internal audit function.
By rotation, operational managers and functional heads present risk reports at audit committee meetings.
There is an opportunity at each meeting for the committee to discuss matters privately with the internal and external auditors without management present.
Outside of scheduled meeting times, the chairman of the committee is in regular contact with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website and these are reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the responsibility and regulation of the committee.
In addition, the committee conducts a review of its own performance on an annual basis, taking input from the members of the committee, the external auditor and senior members of the finance function.
As a result of the review the audit committee has assisted the board in its fair, balanced and understandable review of the annual report, as explained below.
Financial statements and audit The committee reviewed and provided input into the audit scope and audit plan presented by the external auditor, ensuring there was adequate focus on the fair value issues arising from the acquisition of Spirit.
In considering the financial statements the committee reviewed the groups accounting policies to ensure consistency on a year-to-year basis, and that appropriate accounting policies were adopted for new issues such as brand valuations associated with the acquisition of Spirit.
Significant issues that the committee addressed in relation to the financial statements are set out in the table onpage 53.
The committee also reviewed managements attestation paper setting out the information that had been provided to the auditor to enable it to form its opinion on the groups financial statements and demonstrating that it was appropriate for the directors to make the representations set out in the letter of representation.
52 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Significant issues considered by the audit committee in relation to the financial statements for 2015 16 Matter considered What the committee did Fair value accounting The committee reviewed the proposed fair value accounting treatment of assets and liabilities acquired as a result of the foracquired Spirit Spiritacquisition and the changes proposed to the interim adjustments applied by management at the half year.
Inparticular, assets andliabilities itconsidered key judgmental areas including off-market leases, brand valuations and property and lease valuations and the treatment of goodwill, ensuring an appropriately rigorous process had been applied to determine fair values based on reasonable assumptions.
In particular, the committee noted the assessments of independent advisers appointed to undertake property valuations of the Spirit estate and to consider the valuation of brands and other intangible assets.
Following discussions with the external auditors, the committee concluded that the proposed accounting treatment of the Spirit assets and liabilities wasreasonable and confirmed that the fair values set out in note 7 to the financial statements were appropriate.
Uncertain tax The committee undertook a detailed review of uncertain tax positions which have not yet been agreed or are in dispute with positions HMRC.
Whilst many of the uncertain tax provisions have been resolved with HMRC, the largest of these, an internal funding arrangement undertaken in 2003 4, known as Sussex, remains outstanding.
The committee satisfied itself that an appropriate provision was in place in respect of this uncertain tax position following discussion with the external auditor.
Impairment Management prepared a detailed report for consideration by the committee concerning the methodology used to determine ofproperty, plant the extent of any impairment required.
The committee considered the methodology used, reviewed managements proposals and equipment and considered the expected timetable for the disposal of non-core sites.
The committee assessed the proposed changes to both the underlying growth rates and the discount rate used and determined them to be appropriate.
The committee agreed that the growth rates were appropriate at this stage even in light of possible consumer uncertainty following the referendum vote to leave the European Union.
The external auditors were asked for their input and the committee took into account their views on the questions raised.
Following the review and discussions the committee concluded that an impairment of 32.2m was appropriate in relation to property, plant and equipment.
Funding headroom The committee reviewed the groups funding headroom and covenants in conjunction with the review of the use of the going andcovenants and concern assumption and, in particular, the viability statement on page 37.
The committee considered the time period proposed theviability for the viability statement, challenged managements projections, assumptions and stress testing which included material reductions statement in planned growth rates, as well as the extent to which mitigating actions would achieve the desired outcomes, and took into account the external auditors comments on its own work onthis issue.
Accounting for The committee reviewed the groups accounting for supplier income, including listing fees, performance fees and volume supplier incomeand rebates, noting that such income is not recognised until it can be reliably estimated.
The auditors review of both supplier customer rebates income and customer rebates was considered.
During 2015 16 the annual value of supplier fees and rebates amounted to approximately 27m, whilst customer rebates amounted to 22m in the year.
The committee was satisfied that the current controls in place provided reasonable assurance that the risks associated with these areas were being appropriately managed.
Accounting for The committee reviewed the changes to the deferred tax provision for rolled over gains and property revaluations, which led to deferred tax a 26.8m deferred tax credit.
The auditors review of the capital gains model and HMRCs review aspart of the dispute resolution process were considered.
The committee was satisfied that the revised deferred tax provision for capital gains was appropriate.
firm is being considered the nature of the services involved, the level of Fair balanced and understandable annual report fees relative to the audit fee and whether there are safeguards in place to One of the key governance requirements in relation to the annual report mitigate to an acceptable level any threat to objectivity and independence is that it should be fair, balanced and understandable.
At the request of the in the conduct of the audit resulting from such services.
board this year, the audit committee undertook a review of managements processes in this regard including the clear guidance given to contributors and Work estimated to cost in excess of 25,000 is put out to tender unless the review process adopted by management and also considered in detail agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee.
The chief the draft annual report to ensure that it was fair, balanced and understandable financial officer may approve specific engagements up to 50,000 in in their view.
The committee then recommended to the board that it could aggregate up to 100,000 p. a., and the chairman of the audit committee make the required disclosure as set out on page 69. may approve engagements up to 100,000 in aggregate up to 200,000 p. a., with fees in excess of those limits being subject to approval of the full Effectiveness of the external audit committee.
This policy was complied with during the year.
After the 2014 15 audit was completed a review of the effectiveness of the The audit committee has considered a revised policy for non-audit services auditor and of the audit service was undertaken, supported by a questionnaire in line with the recent guidance issued by the FRC which will have effect completed by the audit committee chairman, the chief financial officer, and for the groups 2017 18 financial year.
Now that the guidance is finalised, a number of key members of the finance team involved in the preparation the audit committee will confirm its policy and implement it before the of the statutory accounts.
The overall quality of the service, the audit partner 2017 18 financial year.
The revised policy will be more restrictive than and the audit team were all reviewed and matters such as the management thatwhich currently exists.
of the audit team, the quality of its challenge, insight and communications The committee also has a policy in relation to the appointment of former and the cost-effectiveness of the audit were considered.
Taking into account partners or employees of the auditor by the group, which provides that audit the internal review the committee was satisfied that the quality of the audit partners will not be offered employment by Greene King or any of its subsidiary service provided by Ernst & Young LLP was appropriate.
The feedback undertakings within two years of undertaking any role on the audit.
Other from the review was also provided to Ernst & Young LLP.
The committee key team members will not be offered employment by Greene King within also took into account the quality of the audit firm procedures as six months of undertaking any role on the audit.
Other audit team members published by the Financial Reporting Council.
who accept employment by Greene King must cease activity on the audit as soon as they tender their resignation to the audit firm.
No members Ensuring external auditor independence ofthe audit team have joined Greene King in the period.
The audit committee is cognisant of the importance of auditor independence and objectivity and has a policy in relation to the use of the auditor for non-audit work.
The company will award non-audit work to the firm which provides the best commercial solution for the work in question, taking into account the skills and experience of the firm: and if the audit Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee report continued managing external threats in this area.
At the request of the committee, Ensuring external auditor independence continued management undertook further testing including by external consultants During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within of the companys defences against a cyber security attack, implemented Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work, including acting as auditors to the anumber of additional security measures as a result and addressed the Belhaven pension scheme and in relation to the restated FRS 101 accounts content of regular committee reporting on this topic.
for Greene King Finance plc, required in relation to the secured financing completed in May 2016.
The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during The terms of reference of the committee were also reviewed during the the year amounted to 0.65m of which 12k related to prior year expenses, year and an exercise was undertaken to assess the effectiveness of the and 0.04m 6% related to non-audit work.
Further detail is in note 4 audit committee itself.
In considering the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, Internal control and risk management and the further safeguards in place to protect it, the committee noted the As disclosed in the Risks and uncertainties section of this report on page 33, annual review undertaken by the external auditor identifying all services there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the provided to the group and determined that carrying out such work did not, principal risks faced by the company.
The board has overall responsibility and will not going forward, impair the independence of the external auditor.
for the groups risk management framework and systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness, whilst the audit committee monitors and reviews those internal controls and risks on a regular basis, External auditor tendering and re-appointment and reports to the board on its findings.
During the course of the year the The company last tendered the external audit contract in 1997 and committee continued to review reports from a number of business units Ernst& Young have been the auditor since then, with an annual rolling contract and functional areas on their respective risk management processes and key and subject to an annual shareholder vote at the AGM.
Ernst & Young LLP risks and on the key financial internal controls and to challenge representatives are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the group every of the relevant business unit or functional area who attended those meetings five years and the current audit partners term ends with completion to present the relevant reports.
The risk management framework and ofthis annual report.
internal control systems are designed to manage to an acceptable level, In accordance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and Audit Committee can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order and in the light of the transitional are safeguarded and that the financial information used within the business provisions on audit matters thereunder which allow a period until April 2024 and for external reporting is reliable.
before an audit tender and change is required, and given the change of audit The company has in place procedures to assess the key risks to which it is committee chairman which will take place immediately after the signing of exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address this annual report, the committee recommended to the board, and the board these and other issues.
There are processes in place which accord with accepted the recommendation, that Ernst & Young LLP should be retained the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal as the groups auditors for the time being.
A new audit partner will be Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, and these remained inplace for the 2016 17 financial year audit, and the committee will give in place up to the date of this report.
The board is satisfied that there are consideration to undertaking a full audit tender, in which Ernst & Young LLP no significant weaknesses in these systems and that the groups internal will not be permitted to partake, within the next five years.
The company controls are operating effectively.
was in compliance with the Order during the year.
The key elements of the internal control framework, in addition to the risk The committee therefore recommended to the board that Ernst & Young LLP management processes outlined in the risks and uncertainties section should be reappointed as the companys auditor for the forthcoming year.
ofthis report, are: This resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
the schedule of matters reserved for the board: Internal audit the groups defined management structure with suitable authority limits The companys internal audit function is responsible for reviewing the and responsibilities, staffed by appropriate personnel: effectiveness and efficiency of the systems of internal control in place regular updates for the board on strategy: tosafeguard the assets of the company.
Under the terms of reference forthe function, the internal audit team has direct access to the audit a comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedure including committee chairman to enable it to raise any significant issues and to annual budgets and a three-year strategic plan, both of which are maintain independence.
Members of the internal audit team also attend reviewed and approved by the board: the audit committee meetings to report on the progress and actions taken ongoing monitoring by both the board and senior management of by the function.
During the year, as well as full reviews of relevant areas, performance against budgets, through the periodic reporting of detailed the internal audit function had also carried out a number of key financial management accounts and key performance indicators: control reviews, all of which were reported to management and the committee.
The committee also reviewed the resources available to the ongoing monitoring by the board of compliance with financial covenants: internal audit function both in the short term following the acquisition a centralised financial reporting system and close process, with controls ofSpirit and on a longer term basis, noting that resources have been and reconciliation procedures designed to facilitate the production increased during the year.
ofthe consolidated accounts: Other matters considered during the year clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and The committee considered the groups policy in relation to the valuation disposals, capital expenditure and project control, with escalating levels of its property assets, in the light of the fact that Spirit operated with an of authority including board approval for major acquisitions and disposals, annual revaluation policy, whereas Greene King has historically adopted detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews: a policy whereby property plant and equipment are valued at cost or deemed review of retail operational compliance by the retail internal audit team cost on transition to IFRS.
The committee considered the advantages and responsible and other analytical and control procedures facilitated by disadvantages of each approach and recommended to the board no change the EPOS till system: to Greene Kings policy in this regard.
audits conducted by the group internal audit function of business The committee reviewed, as it does on an annual basis, the groups whistle andfunctional control environments: and blowing policy and its application across the business.
All whistle blowing reports were investigated and resolved satisfactorily, with no significant documented policies to cover bribery and whistle-blowing and regular issues emerging.
The committee has continued to review the subject of cyber security and receives regular reports from management on the issue and how it is 54 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016
