Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Corporate Governance This Corporate Governance report forms part of the Directors should be subject to an annual election by Report of the Directors as further disclosed on pages shareholders as prescribed by the AIC Code, 23 to 25.
The Board operates under a framework for therefore, Directors are re-elected annually.
All of the corporate governance which is appropriate for an Directors shall offer themselves for re-election at investment company.
All companies with a premium the forthcoming AGM.
Having considered their listing of equity shares in the UK are required under the effectiveness, demonstration of commitment to the UK Listing Rules to report on how they have applied role, length of service, attendance at meetings and the UK Code in their Annual Report and financial contribution to the Boards deliberations, the Board statements.
approves the nomination for re-election of all of the Directors.
The Company became a member of the AIC with effect from 27 March 2013 and has therefore put in place Any Director, who has held ofce with the Company arrangements to comply with the AIC Code and, in for a continuous period of nine years or more at the accordance with the AIC Code, voluntarily complies date of the AGM, shall retire from ofce and may offer with the UK Code.
This will allow for phased Board appointments and retirements and The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, enable the Board to consider whether there is any risk addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, as that such Director might reasonably be deemed to well as setting out additional principles and have lost independence through such long service.
recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to investment companies such as the The terms and conditions of appointment of nonCompany.
The Board considers that reporting against executive Directors are available for inspection from the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, the Companys registered ofce.
by reference to the AIC Guide, provides better information to shareholders.
Performance and Evaluation Pursuant to Principle 7 of the AIC Code, the Board The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on the undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its AICs website, www.
The UK Code is performance each financial year.
As a FTSE 250 available on the FRCs website, www.
company, in keeping with the provisions of the AIC The Company has complied with the recommendations Code, it is the Companys policy that every three years an external consultant, who has no connection with the of the AIC Code throughout the year.
Company, carries out a formal review of the Boards The Board performance.
As at the date of this report, the Board consists of five A full external review of the effectiveness of the Board non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to was conducted during 2016 by Independent Audit be independent of the Investment Manager and free Limited.
The independent review concluded that the from any business or other relationship that could Board and its committees were performing well, materially interfere with the exercise of their working closely with a strongly committed Investment independent judgement.
A number of minor governance changes contained in pages 20 to 22 which sets out the range of were made as a result of this review.
investment, financial and business skills and experience represented.
Board appointments have been based on An internal evaluation of the Board, the Audit merit, against objective criteria, and with due regard Committee, and individual Directors will be conducted for the benets of diversity, including gender diversity.
during Q1 2017 in the form of performance appraisal, There were no changes to the Board members during questionnaires and discussion to determine the year.
effectiveness and performance in various areas, as well as the Directors continued independence and tenure.
The Chairman of the Board is Tim Ingram.
In This process will be facilitated by the Company considering the independence of the Chairman, the Secretary and the results of this review will be reported Board took note of the provisions of the AIC Code in the next Annual Report.
relating to independence, and has determined that Mr Ingram is an Independent Director.
The Senior Each individual Directors training and development Independent Director is William Rickett C. B..
The needs are reviewed annually.
All new Directors receive Company has no employees and therefore there is no an induction, including being provided with requirement for a chief executive.
information about the Company and their The Articles of Association provide that Directors shall responsibilities and meetings with the Investment retire and offer themselves for re-election at the first Manager.
In addition, each Director visits operational AGM after their appointment and at least every three sites and specic Board training days are arranged years thereafter.
However, as a FTSE 250 company, all involving presentations on relevant topics.
30 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Corporate Governance continued Board Responsibilities wholly comprised of non-executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
The Board will meet, on average, four times in each calendar year for scheduled Board meetings and on an The Investment Manager ad hoc basis as and when necessary.
At each meeting The Board has entered into the Investment the Board follows a formal agenda that will cover the Management Agreement with the Investment business to be discussed.
Between meetings there is Manager under which the Investment Manager is regular contact with the Investment Manager and the responsible for developing strategy and the day-to-day Administrator.
The Board requires to be supplied, in a management of the Groups investment portfolio, in timely manner, with information by the Investment accordance with the Groups investment objective and Manager, the Administrator and other advisers in a policy, subject to the overall supervision of the Board.
form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to A summary of the fees paid to the Investment Manager discharge its duties.
are given in note 3 to the financial statements.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the The Investment Managers appointment is terminable Company keeps proper accounting records which by the Investment Manager or the Company on not disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the less than 12 months notice, such notice not to expire financial position of the Company and which enable it earlier than 30 June 2019.
The Investment to ensure that the financial statements comply with Management Agreement may be terminated with applicable regulation.
It is the Boards responsibility to immediate effect and without compensation, by either present a fair, balanced and understandable Annual the Investment Manager or the Company if the other Report, which provides the information necessary for party has gone into liquidation, administration or shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and receivership or has committed a material breach of the business model of the Company.
This responsibility Investment Management Agreement.
extends to half-yearly and other price-sensitive public reports.
The Board as a whole fulls the functions of a Management Engagement Committee and reviewed Committees of the Board the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager The Companys Audit Committee is chaired by Shonaid in relation to the half yearly and annual financial Jemmett-Page, and consists of a minimum of three statements and the Companys compliance with the UK members.
In accordance with best practice, the Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules, the Companys Chairman is not a member of the Audit Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the AIC Code.
It Committee however he does attend Audit Committee reviewed the terms of the Investment Management meetings as and when deemed appropriate.
The Audit Agreement and monitored the performance of the Committee report which is on pages 33 to 35 of this Investment Manager during the year.
In accordance with report describes the work of the Audit Committee.
the Listing Rules, the Directors confirm that the continued appointment of the Investment Manager The Company has established a Communications and under the current terms of the Investment Management Disclosure Committee which is required to meet at Agreement is in the interests of shareholders.
The Board least once a year.
The committee has responsibility for, also reviewed the performance of other service amongst other things, determining on a timely basis providers and examined the effectiveness of the the disclosure treatment of material information, and Companys internal control systems during the year.
assisting in the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.
The Board Meetings, Committee Meetings and committee also has responsibility for the identication Directors Attendance of inside information for the purpose of maintaining The number of meetings of the full Board attended in the Companys insider list.
the year to 31 December 2016 by each Director is set Terms of reference for the Communications and out below: Disclosure Committee have been approved by the Scheduled Board Additonal Board Meetings Meetings Board and membership consists of Tim Ingram or one Total of 4 Total of 6 other Director and one of Stephen Lilley and Laurence Fumagalli.
Additional members of the committee may Tim Ingram 4 6 be appointed and existing members removed by the Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 5 committee.
The membership of the committee is William Rickett C. B.
4 5 reviewed by the Board on a periodic basis and at least Dan Badger 4 6 once a year.
Martin McAdam 4 6 The AIC Code recommends that companies appoint Remuneration and Nomination Committees, however During the year, there were five additional meetings of the Board has not deemed this necessary, as being sub-committees of the Board.
31 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Corporate Governance continued Board Meetings, Committee Meetings and Whistleblowing Directors Attendance continued The Board has considered the AIC Code recommendations in respect of arrangements by which The number of meetings of the Audit Committee staff of the Investment Manager or Administrator may, attended in the year to 31 December 2016 by each in confidence, raise concerns within their respective Audit Committee member is set out below: organisations about possible improprieties in matters Audit Committee Meetings of financial reporting or other matters.
It has concluded Total of 4 that adequate arrangements are in place for the Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and, where necessary, for appropriate followWilliam Rickett C. B.
4 up action to be taken within their organisation.
Dan Badger 4 1 Martin McAdam 3 Amendment of Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may be 1 There was a total of three Audit Committee meetings in the amended by the members of the Company by special period from Martin McAdams appointment to the Audit Committee on 28 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. resolution requiring a majority of at least 75 per cent.
of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
Internal Control Relations with Shareholders The Board is responsible for the Companys system of The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The places great importance on communication with its Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for shareholders.
Senior members of the Investment identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Manager make themselves available at all reasonable risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in times to meet with principal shareholders and key place throughout the year and has continued since the sector analysts.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent year end.
Director and other Directors are also available to meet with shareholders if required.
The Companys principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 6 to 8 of this report.
As further All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions explained in the Audit Committee Report, the risks of to the Company at the registered address.
The AGM of the Company are outlined in a risk matrix which was the Company will provide a forum for shareholders to reviewed and updated during the year.
The Board meet and discuss issues with the Directors and continually reviews its policy setting and updates the Investment Manager.
risk matrix annually to ensure that procedures are in The Board receives comprehensive shareholder reports place with the intention of identifying, mitigating and from the Companys Registrar at all quarterly Board minimising the impact of risks should they crystallise.
meetings and regularly monitors the views of The Board relies on reports periodically provided by shareholders and the shareholder prole of the the Investment Manager and the Administrator Company.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all regarding risks that the Company faces.
When relevant market commentary on the Company by the required, experts are employed to gather information, Investment Manager.
including tax and legal advisers.
The Board also regularly monitors the investment environment and the Shareholders may also nd Company information or management of the Companys portfolio, and applies contact the Company through its website: the principles detailed in the internal control guidance www.
On behalf of the Board The principal features of the internal control systems which the Investment Manager and the Administrator have in place in respect of the Groups financial reporting include: Tim Ingram internal reviews of all financial reports: Chairman of the Board review by the Board of financial information prior 22 February 2017 to its publication: authorisation limits over expenditure incurred by the Group: review of valuations: and authorisation of investments.
