CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction I believe we can I am pleased to introduce this report, which is my first sincebecoming chairman at the beginning of the current financial continue to maintain year.
My predecessor, Tim Bridge, took his responsibility for ensuring that we met high standards of corporate governance very seriously, and I will continue to do so throughout my tenure.
a strong and effective During the year the company again applied the main principles andrelevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code governance system.
theCode, and I hope this report gives you a good understanding Philip Yea, Chairman ofthe systems of governance and control which continue to operate.
As you might expect, the board was very busy during the 2015 16 financial year dealing with the integration of Spirit Pub Company, theacquisition of which completed in June 2015.
I am pleased to have joined Greene King at such an exciting time in our development.
I am looking forward to working closely with Rooney and the rest of the board in the next stage of our progress as a leading pub hospitality company, whilst at the same time continuing to ensure that we have a well balanced and effective board, strong oversight of risk management, alignment of remuneration policies with shareholder interests and sound shareholder relationships.
In accordance with the Code, we conducted a board evaluation exercise during the year.
Having joined the board in February, and to facilitate my understanding of the board and its ways of working, it was agreed that I should undertake that evaluation by means of individual discussions with each board member, with a view to looking forward and focusing on how to improve board effectiveness, rather than looking back atpast practice.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow directors for their support since myappointment.
Together, I believe we can continue to maintain a strong and effective governance system to enable the business to deliver its strategy, generateshareholder value and safeguard our shareholders long-term interests.
Philip Yea Chairman Statement of compliance with the UK Board independence current directors Corporate Governance Code Nomination Audit Remuneration Name Independent committee committee committee The company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code which isissued by the Financial Reporting Council and which is Philip Yea Yes N available at www.
The code sets out guidance in the form Rooney Anand No of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
Companies listed Mike Coupe Yes N A R in the UK are required to disclose how they have applied the main Kirk Davis No principles and whether they havecomplied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Where theprovisions have not been Ian Durant Yes N A R complied with companies must provide anexplanation.
Rob Rowley Yes N A R The board considers that the company has complied with the UK Lynne Weedall Yes N R Corporate Governance Code dated September 2014 throughout theyearin all respects, save that, with the impending retirement ofTimBridge at the end of the financial year, no evaluation was undertaken of his performance as chairman as is required by Codeprovision A4.2.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued The board Operation of the board The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its Board composition consideration, including approval of the long term objectives and strategy, As at the year end the board comprised the chairman, two executive approval of budgets and financial statements including the annual report directors and five non-executive directors.
The non-executive chairman and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the was Tim Bridge, who retired at the end of the year.
The new chairman group and overall corporate governance issues.
It reviews trading performance isnow Philip Yea.
The chief executive is Rooney Anand and the senior and considers major capital expenditure.
independent director during the year was Rob Rowley.
The board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing committees, The board believes that the structure and size of the board is appropriate details of which are set out on page 49.
By delegating key responsibilities to and that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
these committees, the board is able to ensure that adequate time is devoted The board is currently looking to recruit a further non-executive director, by board members to the oversight of key areas within their responsibility.
to replace Ian Durant, who will be retiring from the board at the AGM in September.
Further details are set out in the nomination committee report.
Day to day management and control of the business is delegated to the executive directors, business unit managing directors and certain key functional The directors biographies are on page 46. heads, who meet formally on a four-weekly basis together with other Independence of non-executive directors senior managers as appropriate.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more than half Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year, with main of the board, excluding the chairman, are non-executive directors.
The board meetings linked to key events in the companys financial calendar, with the is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were independent throughout annual results and dividend being approved in June or July and the interim the year, in that they satisfied the independence criteria of the code on results and dividend in November or December.
Regular agenda items their appointment and continue to satisfy those criteria.
include an overview of the market and current trading as well as a detailed review of financial performance against agreed targets.
Tim Bridge, the chairman during the last financial year, was not independent on appointment, having previously served as chief executive.
However, the There is a two-day meeting of the board in February each year focusing board was satisfied that he showed independent judgment, that his performance on strategy, with the business unit managing directors and heads of the as chairman was effective and that he demonstrated continued main functional areas, namely trading, marketing, HR and property, commitment to the role.
The strategy sessions include an in-depth review of relevant economic factors and issues affecting the sector and Philip Yea, the new chairman, is independent on appointment, having managements projections for the medium term.
The board then has the never been employed by the company and having diverse business opportunity to agree the strategic plans across all areas for the short and interests beyond the company.
Following approval of the companys strategy, budgets are Rob Rowley was the senior independent non-executive director during prepared for the next financial year, which are reviewed and approved the year.
He too has never been employed by the company and has diverse bythe board in April.
The board also has a programme to review each business interests.
As well as supporting the chairman and acting as a business unit and main functional area in detail on a regular basis, with sounding board for the chairman and an intermediary for other directors, particular focus on the achievement of strategic objectives.
The relevant a key responsibility for the senior independent director is to be available managing director or functional head attends such meetings to present for direct contact from shareholders should they require.
During the year and answer questions.
Rob Rowley played an active role in the recruitment of Philip Yea as the The board has responsibility for determining, with the assistance of the new chairman, as explained in the nomination committee report.
audit committee, whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and understandable to enable shareholders to assess the companys Leadership performance, business model and strategy.
In coming to its view, the board Role of the board took into account the views of the audit committee, which assisted in the The board has collective responsibility for the long-term success of the process this year, as well as its own knowledge of the group, its strategy company and for its leadership, strategy, control and management.
and performance in the year, the guidance given to all contributors to theannual report and a detailed review by senior management of the The offices of chairman and chief executive are separate and distinct and overall content.
the division of responsibilities between them has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
A key focus area for the board during the year included the integration ofthe Spirit business following completion of the acquisition of Spirit Pub The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Company in June 2015, to ensure that planned synergies are being effectively board and for ensuring that each non-executive director is able to make captured and that the business is being appropriately managed during the an effective contribution to the board through debate and discussion with integration period.
Regular reports on progress have been presented to the executive directors.
He is also responsible for setting the style and the board with plenty of opportunity for the board to raise any concerns.
Looking forward this focus will continue whilst the programme of brand The chief executives role is to develop the companys strategic direction swaps is carried out and the remaining synergies continue to be captured.
and to lead senior management in executing the companys strategy Another key focus area for the board has been financing, to ensure that andmanaging the operational requirements of the business.
the group had available sufficient funds to deliver its capital expenditure The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that programme and for general business purposes.
The board approved the the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully examined 300m tap of the Greene King securitisation vehicle which completed and fully discussed, that the performance of the company is monitored and shortly after the year end realising net proceeds of 180m after settling challenged and that the financial information provided is comprehensive certain interest rate swap liabilities.
They are also responsible for ensuring, through the relevant The board has also spent some time considering matters relating to risk, committee, that appropriate remuneration arrangements are in place including the issue of risk appetite and a robust assessment of the principal forthe executive directors.
Further details, including the new viability statement, are set out in the risk management section which starts on page 33.
48 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GREENE KING BOARD The board is ultimately responsible for the long-term success of the company.
Its principal responsibilities are to: approve the groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy and the overall funding strategy: approve the budgets and financial statements, including the report and accounts: approve acquisitions and disposals: and oversee the groups operations and review performance in the light of the groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
COMMITTEES NOMINATION AUDIT REMUNERATION reviews structure, size and composition reviews and monitors full year sets remuneration policy: ofthe board: andinterimresults: sets executive director remuneration makes recommendations for monitors internal financial controls: and incentives: appointments: and oversees external audit relationship: and approves annual performance succession planning.
objectives:and oversees risk management.
approves granting of long-term incentives.
MEMBERS Philip Yea Chairman Ian Durant Chairman Lynne Weedall Chairman Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Ian Durant Rob Rowley Ian Durant Rob Rowley Rob Rowley Lynne Weedall Nomination committee report Audit committee report Remuneration report page 51 page 52 page 55 Nomination Audit Remuneration Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact to Board committee committee committee progress the companys business and if necessary, board meetings can be held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the Executive directors board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to Rooney Anand 8 8 be dealt with between scheduled board meetings.
It is expected that all Kirk Davis 8 8 directors attend board and relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
If directors are unable to Non-executive directors attend meetings in person or by telephone they are given the opportunity Tim Bridge 8 8 3 3 to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting.
1 Mike Coupe 8 8 3 3 2 3 3 3 Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is set out intheadjacent table.
Ian Durant 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 Board papers are generally circulated seven days prior to each board or Rob Rowley 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 committee meeting to ensure that directors have sufficient time to review 2 Lynne Weedall 7 8 3 3 3 3 them before the meeting.
Documentation includes detailed management 3 Philip Yea 3 3 1 1 1 1 accounts, reports on current trading, reports from each business unit and main functional areas and full papers on matters where the board is 1.
Mike Coupe was unable to attend one audit committee meeting due to prior required to give its approval.
The chairman holds regular, informal meetings with the non-executive 2.
Lynne Weedall was unable to attend one board meeting due to prior commitments directors without the executive directors being present and the non-executives with Selfridges Group.
also meet with the chairman and the chief executive on an informal basis 3.
Philip Yea was appointed to the board on 2 February 2016. twice each year.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued Board effectiveness Communication with shareholders The board is keen to ensure that our shareholders have a good understanding Board performance and evaluation of the business and its performance, and that the directors are aware of The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the board to conduct an any issues or concerns which shareholders may have.
Communication annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and with shareholders takes a variety of forms.
This year, on account of the impending retirement of Tim Bridge as chairman, there was no formal evaluation of Tim Bridges performance Institutional shareholders and analysts as chairman.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings The board evaluation exercise was carried out by Philip Yea, who conducted after the announcement of the year-end and interim results.
Analysts are an informal review comprising individual meetings with each director to also invited to presentations at those times and separately to analyst trips elicit any immediate concerns or issues that he should take account of in to visit our premises and hear presentations on specific divisions of the formulating the future conduct, structure and agenda for the board.
The board receives regular reports and feedback on the meetings material concerns were expressed, and so discussions focussed on future held between the executive directors and principal shareholders, and board composition given the planned retirement of Ian Durant at the copies of analysts reports on the company.
AGM, future topics for board review, including succession planning and The senior independent non-executive director, Rob Rowley, is available talent management, and other potential changes to board agendas given to shareholders if they have concerns about governance issues which the the increased scale of the group following the acquisition of Spirit.
The normal channels of contact fail to resolve.
findings were recorded in a paper considered by the board at its meeting in June 2016.
AGM The AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with In addition to the annual evaluation exercise there remains an on-going private shareholders, who receive a brief presentation on the business dialogue within the board to ensure that it operates effectively and that before the formal business of the meeting begins.
They also have the full any matters raised are addressed in a timely manner.
opportunity to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the and senior management informally after the meeting.
The board aims to remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review ensure that all members of the board, including in particular the chairmen andthe payment of bonuses.
of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
Training and support The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least twenty working The training needs of the board and its committees are regularly reviewed days before the meeting.
All substantive items of business at shareholders and each director is responsible for ensuring their skills and knowledge of meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution the company remain up to date.
Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring to adopt the annual report.
The chairman announces the results of the that directors are aware of proposed legislative changes in areas such proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show ascorporate governance, financial reporting and sector specific issues.
Alldirectors are encouraged to visit the companys pubs and restaurants The next AGM will be held on 9 September 2016 at the Millennium and do so throughout the year.
Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Newly-appointed directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Suffolk CB8 0TF.
Details can be found in the separate notice of meeting.
board to acquaint them with the company.
This includes meetings with Website other board members and senior management, and the provision of an The company maintains a website www.
co. uk to provide induction pack containing general information on the company, its policies up-to-date, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, and procedures, financial and operational information and a briefing on which includes a dedicated investor relations section.
Philip Yea received a particularly detailed induction announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for on joining the board given his future role as chairman of the board, and presentations to investment analysts.
We are happy to answer questions met all the board directors individually and a large number of senior by telephone or email investorrelations@greeneking.
co. uk or managers across the business.
There is an agreed written procedure for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
Board committees Directors also have access to the services of the company secretary.
The The board has established a nomination committee, an audit committee company has in place directors and officers liability insurance.
and a remuneration committee, each of which has formal terms of reference Commitment and conflicts of interest governing its method of operation.
Each of the terms of reference, which have been approved by the board, are available on request or to download All significant commitments which the directors have outside Greene King from the companys website and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
are disclosed prior to appointment and on an on-going basis when there are any changes.
The board is satisfied that the chairman and each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to their duties and fulfils DTR disclosure their obligations to the company.
The information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, the nomination committee report and the audit committee report, except for information The board has the right, under the articles of association, to approve required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the directors report.
potential situational conflicts of interest.
A small number of such potential conflicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by certain directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any decision relating to their own position.
Directors are also aware that the disclosure and authorisation of any potential conflict situation does not detract from their requirement to notify the board separately of an actual or potential conflict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company.
50 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016
