GREENCOAT U K W I N D Audit Committee Report During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Auditor.
These meetings and discussions focused on, Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman, William Rickett but were not limited to: C. B. Dan Badger and, with effect from 28 January a detailed analysis of the Companys quarterly 2016, Martin McAdam.
The AIC Code has a NAVs: requirement that at least one member of the Audit reviewing the updated risk matrix of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial Company: experience and the Audit Committee as a whole shall have competence relevant to the sector.
The Board is reviewing the Companys corporate governance satisfied that the Audit Committee is properly framework: constituted in these respects.
The qualications and reviewing the internal controls framework for the experience of all Audit Committee members are Company, the Administrator and the Investment disclosed on pages 20 to 22 of this report.
Manager, considering the need for a separate The Audit Committee operates within clearly dened internal audit function: terms of reference which were reviewed during the considering any incidents of internal control failure financial year.
The revised terms have been approved or fraud and the Companys response: by the Board, and include all matters indicated by considering the ongoing assessment of the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the AIC Company as a going concern: Code and are available for inspection on the Companys website: www.
considering the principal risks and period of assessment for the longer term viability of the Audit Committee meetings are scheduled at Company: appropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle.
monitoring the ongoing appropriateness of the The Chairman, other Directors and third parties may Companys status as an investment entity under be invited to attend meetings as and when deemed IFRS 10, in particular following an acquisition: appropriate.
monitoring compliance with AIFMD, the AIC code Summary of the Role and Responsibilities of the and other regulatory and governance frameworks: Audit Committee reviewing and approving the audit plan in relation The duties of the Audit Committee include reviewing to the audit of the Companys Annual Report and the Companys quarterly NAV, half-yearly report, financial statements: Annual Report and financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial monitoring compliance with the Companys policy performance.
on the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor: and The Audit Committee is the forum through which the reviewing the effectiveness, resources, qualications external Auditor reports to the Board and is and independence of the Auditor.
responsible for reviewing the terms of appointment of the Auditor, together with their remuneration.
On an Financial Reporting ongoing basis, the Audit Committee is responsible for The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to reviewing the objectivity of the Auditor along with the financial reporting is to review with the Investment effectiveness of the audit and the terms under which Manager, the Administrator and the Auditor the the Auditor is engaged to perform non-audit services.
appropriateness of the half-yearly report and Annual The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing Report and financial statements, concentrating on, the Companys corporate governance framework, amongst other matters: system of internal controls and risk management, ensuring they are suitable for an investment company.
the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with action or improvement is needed, and make financial reporting standards and relevant financial recommendations on the steps to be taken.
and governance reporting requirements: amendments to legislation and corporate Overview governance reporting requirements and During the year, the Audit Committees discussions accounting treatment of new transactions in the have been broad ranging.
In addition to the six year: formally convened Audit Committee meetings from 1 January 2016 to the date of this report, the Audit the impact of new and amended accounting Committee has had regular contact and meetings with standards on the Companys financial statements: the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the 33 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Audit Committee Report continued Financial Reporting continued of any changes made.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the key estimates and assumptions used in whether the Audit Committee believes that proper the valuation model, which are disclosed in note 2 to and appropriate processes and procedures have the financial statements, are appropriate and that the been followed in the preparation of the half-yearly investments have been fairly valued.
report and Annual Report and financial statements: consideration and recommending to the Board for Internal Control approval of the contents of the annual financial The Audit Committee has established a set of ongoing statements and reviewing the Auditors report processes designed to meet the particular needs of the thereon including consideration of whether the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
financial statements are overall fair, balanced and The process is one whereby the Investment Manager understandable: has identied the key risks to which the Company is material areas in which significant judgements exposed, and recorded them on a risk matrix together have been applied or there has been discussion with the controls employed to mitigate these risks.
A with the Auditor: and residual risk rating has been applied to each risk.
The any correspondence from regulators in relation to Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk the Companys financial reporting.
matrix and associated controls before recommending to the Board for consideration and approval, BDO LLP attended three of the six formal Audit challenging the Investment Managers assumptions to Committee meetings held during the period from ensure a robust internal risk management process.
1 January 2016 to the date of this report.
The Audit Committee has also held private meetings with the The Audit Committee formally reviewed the updated Auditor to provide additional opportunities for open risk matrix during the year and will continue to do so dialogue and feedback.
Matters typically discussed on an annual basis.
By their nature, these procedures include the Auditors assessment of the transparency provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance and openness of interactions with the Investment against material misstatement or loss.
Regular reports Manager and the Administrator, conrmation that will be provided to the Audit Committee highlighting there has been no restriction in scope placed on them, material changes to risk ratings.
the independence of their audit and how they have The Audit Committee also reviewed the Groups exercised professional scepticism.
principal risks and uncertainties as at 30 June 2016, to significant Issues determine that these were unchanged from those disclosed in the Companys 2015 Annual Report and The Audit Committee discussed the planning, conduct remained the most likely to affect the Group in the and conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded.
At the Audit Committee meeting in advance of the year end, the Audit Committee discussed and During the year, the Audit Committee also discussed approved the Auditors audit plan.
The Audit and reviewed the internal controls frameworks in place Committee identied the carrying value of investments at the Investment Manager and the Administrator in as a key area of risk of misstatement in the Companys depth.
Discussions focused on three lines of defence: financial statements.
assurances at operational level: internal oversight: and independent objective assurance.
The Audit Committee Assessment of the Carrying Value of Investments concluded that these frameworks were appropriate for The Groups accounting policy is to designate the identication, assessment, management and investments at fair value through profit or loss.
monitoring of financial and regulatory risks, with Therefore, the most significant risk in the Groups particular regard to the protection of the interests of the financial statements is whether its investments are fairly Companys shareholders.
valued due to the uncertainty involved in determining the investment valuations.
There is also an inherent risk Internal Audit of management override as the Investment Managers The Audit Committee continues to review the need for fee is calculated based on NAV as disclosed in note 3 to an internal audit function and has decided that the the financial statements.
The Investment Manager is systems, processes and procedures employed by the responsible for calculating the NAV with the assistance Company, Investment Manager and Administrator, of the Administrator, prior to approval by the Board.
including their own internal controls and procedures, provide sufficient assurance that an appropriate level On a quarterly basis, the Investment Manager provides of risk management and internal control is maintained.
a detailed analysis of the NAV highlighting any In addition to this, the Companys external Depositary movements and assumption changes from the provides cash monitoring, asset verication and previous quarters NAV.
The Audit Committee oversight services to the Company.
considers and challenges this analysis and the rationale 34 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Audit Committee Report continued Internal Audit continued report from BDO LLP describing its arrangements to identify, report and manage any conict of interest and The Audit Committee has therefore concluded that the extent of non-audit services provided by them.
shareholders investments and the Companys assets are adequately safeguarded and an internal audit The Audit Committee has concluded that it considers function specic to the Company is considered BDO LLP to be independent of the Company and that unnecessary.
the provision of the non-audit services described above is not a threat to the objectivity and The Audit Committee shall meet investors in relation to independence of the conduct of the audit.
the Companys financial reporting and internal controls, should it be deemed appropriate.
Re-appointment External Auditor BDO LLP has been the Companys Auditor from its incorporation on 4 December 2012.
The Auditor is Effectiveness of the Audit Process required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Group audit every five years.
In the prior year, a new audit process by considering BDO LLPs fullment of lead partner was appointed and therefore the lead the agreed audit plan through the reporting presented partner will be required to rotate after the completion to the Audit Committee by BDO LLP and the of the 2019 year end audit.
discussions at the Audit Committee meeting, which highlighted the major issues that arose during the The external audit contract is required to be put to course of the audit.
In addition, the Audit Committee tender at least every ten years.
The Audit Committee also sought feedback from the Investment Manager shall give advance notice of any retendering plans and the Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit within the Annual Report.
The Audit Committee has process.
For this financial year, the Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of the Auditor and was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus decided not to put the provision of the external audit and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and out to tender at this time.
As described above, the assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the Auditor and remain satisfied that Non-Audit Services the Auditor provides effective independent challenge Details of fees paid to BDO LLP during the year are to the Board, the Investment Manager and the disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee will continue to Audit Committee approved these fees after a review monitor the performance of the Auditor on an annual of the level and nature of work to be performed, and basis and will consider their independence and are satisfied that they are appropriate for the scope of objectivity, taking account of appropriate guidelines.
The Audit Committee seeks to The Audit Committee has therefore recommended to ensure that any non-audit services provided by the the Board that BDO LLP be proposed for reexternal Auditor do not conict with their statutory appointment as the Companys Auditor at the AGM of and regulatory responsibilities, as well as their the Company.
independence, before giving written approval prior to their engagement.
The Audit Committee was satisfied Annual General Meeting that BDO LLP had adequate safeguards in place and The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present that provision of these non-audit services did not at the Companys AGM to answer questions on the provide threats to the Auditors independence.
Audit Committees activity and matters within the The Audit Committee has a policy regarding the scope of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
provision of non-audit services by the external Auditor which precludes the external Auditor from providing any of the prohibited non-audit services as listed in Article 5 of the EU Directive Regulation EU No 537 2014.
The Audit Committee monitors the Groups expenditure on non-audit services provided by the Companys Auditor who should only be engaged for non-audit services where they are deemed to be the Shonaid Jemmett-Page most commercially viable supplier and prior approval Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Audit Committee has been sought.
22 February 2017 Independence The Audit Committee is required to consider the independence of the external Auditor.
In fullling this requirement, the Audit Committee has considered a 35
