Directors Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee continues to keep its activities under review in Introduction the light of regulatory developments and the emergence of best I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee practice.
In particular, it will oversee the implementation of the for 2016.
European Audit reforms which have come into effect this year, to ensure the Companys compliance.
The Committee has also The Committee plays an important part in the governance of the considered the FRCs Corporate Reporting Thematic Reviews Company with its principal activities focused on the integrity of on Tax Disclosures and Alternative Performance Measures which financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of internal and external were issued in 2016. audit, risk management and the system of internal control.
Overall I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee enable I have set out below the main matters considered by the it to gain a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.
We meet Company during the year along with oversight of the governance formally at key times within our reporting calendar and the and operation of its key controls and ultimately to draw the agendas for our meetings are designed to cover all significant conclusions set out in the report below.
areas of risk over the course of the year and to provide oversight and challenge to the key financial judgements, controls and processes that operate within the Company.
Allison Kirkby Chair of the Audit Committee 28 February 2017 The activities of the Committee enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Company during the year.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Composition The Audit Committee is comprised of the following: Allison Kirkby Chair Helena Ganczakowski Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner It is the practice of the Company for all independent Non-Executive Directors to serve as members of the Audit Committee.
There have been no changes in the composition of the Committee during 2016.
Training is provided for any new members of the Audit Committee by way of a thorough induction process which includes access to the external auditor, the Head of Business Assurance and relevant members of management.
The Directors biographies on pages 42 and 43 detail the Committee members previous experience.
The Board considers that Allison Kirkby has recent and relevant financial experience and is confident that the collective experience of the members enables them to act effectively as an Audit Committee.
Role and responsibilities The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be accessed at: http: corporate.
co. uk investor-centre corporate-governance company-documents.
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: ensuring that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of the accounts and information published by the Company and reviewing significant financial judgements contained in them: advising the Board on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: reviewing the internal financial controls and the Groups approach to risk management: oversight of whistle-blowing arrangements: monitoring compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Governance Code: oversight of the Companys external and internal auditors and reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Meetings during the year The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Details of Committee members attendance is given on page 45.
The Committee normally invites the Company Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Head of Business Assurance and the external auditor to attend its meetings.
Time is set aside bi-annually for discussion with the external auditor and with the Head of Business Assurance, in each case in the absence of all Executive Directors.
The Committee also has access to the Companys management team and to its auditor and can seek further professional advice, at the Companys cost, if required.
The Chair has regular contact with the Finance Director, and internal and external auditors, in addition to scheduled Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are addressed.
She also has access to and, in 2016 made contact with, an audit partner independent of the partner responsible for the audit.
Financial reporting In 2016 the Audit Committee reviewed the 2015 annual report, interim results, preliminary results announcement and reports from the external auditor on the outcome of their reviews and audits.
During the year, and up to the date of this report, the Committee considered key accounting issues and judgements and related disclosures in the Groups accounts.
The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts statements for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2016 are as follows: Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 Directors Report Area of focus Action taken Understanding and treatment of exceptional items The accounts include exceptional items in the current year.
The Committee considered the accounting requirements of IAS1 relating to the separate disclosure of material items of income or expense together with the FRCs guidance on the subject, with reference to the costs arising from the decision, announced in March The costs incurred in 2016 relate to the closure of three bakery sites 2016, to invest in and reshape the Companys supply chain in order to support and include redundancy and other employment-related costs, costs future growth.
related to redundant assets and other contractual obligations that The Committee ensured that consistent principles were established and agreed with the arise as a result of the closure of the sites.
external auditor early in the process and that reporting is suitably clear.
The Committee gave careful consideration to the judgements made in the separate disclosure of non-underlying items, both in respect of events occurring in 2016 and also changes in circumstance in respect of provisions relating to events from prior years, ensuring that the annual report as a whole presents a balanced view, including the presentation of the GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
It concluded that separate disclosure should be made of items of expenditure incurred in 2016 related to the supply chain investment programme.
Dilapidations Dilapidation provisions have been made based on the future expected The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the need for dilapidation repair costs required to restore the Groups leased buildings to their provisions, together with the movement in the provision during the year, and concluded fair condition at the end of their respective lease terms, where it is that the principles applied were appropriate.
considered a reliable estimate can be made.
The balance held in respect of dilapidation provisions at the end of the year was 3,243,000 2015: 3,343,000.
Accounting for onerous leases Onerous lease provisions have been made for shops which have been The Committee reviewed managements assessment in respect of these leases together vacated, have been identified for closure or re-site or are not generating with the movement in the provision during the year and concluded that the assumptions sufficient profits to cover the lease costs in full.
The key area of made were appropriate.
judgement in making this provision is the determination of the length of time it will take to find a suitable exit opportunity for each lease.
The onerous lease provision held on the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 is 1,819,000 2015: 2,289,000.
Asset impairment The accounts include asset impairment provisions made by assessing The Audit Committee considered the sensitivities of the assumptions used and assessed expected future cash flows.
The results of the impairment reviews were whether any reversal of impairment was indicated by improved trading in the impaired presented by management to the Committee based on the following shops.
It concluded that the impairment provisions were appropriate and that they methodologies.
reflected suitably the future plans of the business.
For shop assets historic cash flows including attributable overheads are used as a base, with a 0% growth rate and a discount rate of 10% applied over an appropriate period based on the remaining lease term.
For supply chain assets the recoverable amount of the sites and any obsolete equipment is compared to its carrying amount.
The carrying value of fixed assets at the end of the year is reduced by impairment provisions totalling 3,942,000 2015: 3,445,000.
Accounting for defined benefit pension scheme The determination of the defined benefit obligation depends on the Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Company by independent selection of certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation actuaries.
The Committee assessed the underlying assumptions and concluded that they rates and mortality rates.
were appropriate and also discussed the appropriateness of the assumptions with the external auditor.
The net liability held in relation to the defined benefit pension scheme at the end of 2016 was 22,851,000 2015: 3,910,000.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee is responsible for advising the Board on whether The Committee received a report from the Head of Business Assurance who is not involved it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, in the preparation of the annual report and accounts and who conducted an independent balanced and understandable.
The following factors were considered during the course of this review: ensuring that all the statements are consistent with one another: verifying that figures in the narrative sections are consistent with the relevant financial detail: identifying any duplication of information: ensuring that the disclosure of non-underlying items is balanced: confirming that bad news is included, as well as good news: and highlighting any inappropriate use of technical language or jargon.
The Audit Committee considered the feedback from this report alongside its own review of the annual report and accounts when making its recommendation to the Board regarding fair, balanced and understandable.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus Action taken Going concern The accounts continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Information provided by the Finance Director regarding future financial plans, risks and liquidity is presented to the Committee to enable it to determine whether the going concern basis of accounting remained appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the going concern statement on page 48 of the Directors report.
Viability Revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2015 introduced a The Committee reviewed the process undertaken by management to support and allow new requirement for the Board to consider the period over which they the Directors to make the Groups viability statement.
The Committee considered and are able to conclude that the Company will remain viable, having taken provided input into the determination of which of the Groups principal risks and into account severe but plausible risks and risk combinations.
On combinations thereof might have an impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency.
account of this being a relatively new requirement, the Committee The Committee reviewed the results of managements scenario modelling and the stress considered this to be a significant reporting matter.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the viability statement on page 41 of the strategic report.
The Committee also considered other key accounting issues and related disclosures in the Groups accounts as follows: whether any changes in accounting policy were required following changes in the business or in legislation: whether the Companys tax policy remains appropriate: the impact of changes in accounting standards and their relevance, if any, to the Company: and reports from the Company Secretary and Finance Director which assess the Companys compliance with the Listing Rules.
External audit Assessing external audit effectiveness The Audit Committee discussed and agreed the scope of the audit with the external auditor and agreed its fees in respect of the audit.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit in line with the Financial Reporting Councils Practice aid for audit committees which was issued in 2015.
It considered the results of external quality inspections by the Audit Quality Inspection Team on other KPMG clients.
It sought feedback from senior management, by way of a detailed questionnaire, in respect of the effectiveness of the audit process with particular reference to audit planning and design and audit execution.
The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the audit through the reporting from and communications with the auditor and an assessment of the auditors approach to key areas of judgement and any errors identified during the course of the audit.
The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the relationship with and effectiveness of the external auditor be kept under review.
Appointing the auditor and safeguards on non-audit services KPMG has been the Companys auditor for more than 20 years and the transitional rules in the EU Directive require an initial change of audit firms no later than 2020.
Having reappointed KPMG in 2014 following a competitive tender, the Committee expects to change audit firms in accordance with the requirements of the EU directive.
The Committee will continue to consider annually whether to conduct an audit tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Company complies with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditor including the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by it and its suitability for re-appointment.
During the year the Company has reviewed the provision of non-audit services.
The Company has a formal policy to ensure that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor for non-audit work does not compromise the auditors independence or objectivity.
It monitors the level and type of non-audit fees on an annual basis and ensures that the overall level of non-audit fees remains in line with current ethical guidance governing the accounting profession.
The Audit Committee favours a presumption that non-audit work will be awarded to a firm other than the audit firm unless there is a good reason to use the auditor.
An annual base plan for non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is agreed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Expenditure in accordance with this plan can then be committed without further referral to the Audit Committee.
Expenditure that is not included in the agreed plan is subject to strict authority limits and is reviewed by the Committee.
All use of the external auditor for non-audit work must be reported to and approved by the Committee.
In circumstances where non-audit fees are significant relative to the audit fee an explanation would be provided in the subsequent Audit Committee Report.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the external auditor has its own policies and is subject to professional standards designed to safeguard its independence as auditor.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Directors Report The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, continues to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG LLP did perform non-audit services during 2016 for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that its objectivity was not impaired by such work.
In 2016, the charge to the income statement in respect of non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP and related KPMG operations amounted to 28,000 which is 19 per cent of the audit fee for the year and related to audit of turnover statements required by shop landlords and pension scheme audits.
In June 2016 the FRC issued a revised Ethical Standard which incorporated its response to the implementation of the EC Audit Directive and Regulation in the UK.
As expected the Standard mandates that KPMG will not be able to undertake any blacklisted non-audit work if they remain as auditor beyond the end of the 2016 financial year.
As a result the Company has appointed alternative providers for all aspects of the blacklisted non-audit work previously carried out by KPMG, which in recent years has consisted wholly of taxation services.
Reappointment of auditor In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Risk management and internal control Internal control The Committee reviewed the Companys internal control environment to satisfy itself that procedures are in place to ensure that assets are well protected, authority levels for expenditure are clear, segregation of duties exists and performance is regularly monitored.
Processes are in place to ensure that key controls are being operated and compliance with these processes is the subject of inspection by the internal audit team and subsequent review by the Audit Committee.
Whistle-blowing The Companys whistle-blowing policy is made available to all employees through the intranet, as well as via posters displayed across the business.
This gives information regarding how to raise a concern in strict confidence.
Two reports were made during the year, one relating to management issues and one to a potential small-scale fraud.
The events were reported either directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee by telephone or email, or came in via another external route.
In each case the issues were investigated, a judgement was made and action taken by senior management, supported by Business Assurance and with an appropriate level of discretion.
The outcome of all matters was reported to the Board during the year.
The Companys whistle-blowing policy has been reviewed during the year, to ensure that it remains appropriate and in line with best practice.
Risk management process The Audit Committee undertakes a review of the risk management process in the Group at least annually, as set out in its terms of reference.
The process is detailed on page 39, and has been reviewed by the Committee to confirm its appropriateness in light of the risks identified.
The key areas that the Committee has specifically considered are as follows: Area of focus Action taken The Committee considered the proposed disclosure of principal risks and uncertainties within the annual Review of principal risks and uncertainties report which had resulted from the Risk Committees review of the risks facing the Company.
This included consideration of uncertainties in the economic outlook.
The Committee has continued to receive regular updates on the implementation plans for SAP, including SAP implementation timeframes, resource requirements and governance arrangements.
A specific focus was placed on the cutover of the financial data from the legacy systems into SAP.
The Audit Committee has continued to take a close interest in the Companys approach to cyber risk.
Cyber risk assessment An update on activity is provided to each meeting.
The Committee received a training session from the external auditor during the year.
A subsequent meeting included a significant focus on cyber and information security risks, including a cyber threat analysis.
Internal audit The work of the internal audit function is set out in more detail within the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 39 and 40 of this annual report.
The team is led by the Head of Business Assurance, supported by the Risk Manager, the Information Security & Compliance Manager and 16 auditors, the majority of whom work across the retail estate to provide assurance over the Companys retail operations.
The Audit Committee approves the annual plan for the team and monitors progress against that plan.
The effectiveness of the internal audit team and its level of resource are reviewed by the Committee at least annually.
Committee effectiveness Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and considers where improvements can be made.
Allison Kirkby Chair of the Audit Committee 28 February 2017 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55
