GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION We strive to engage openly and honestly at all times, particularly when proposing changes to the business structure.
This year, we have adopted a different approach to social Dear Shareholder, responsibility reporting.
We have not included a separate section Our governance report for 2016 is set out on pages 45 to 48. in our annual report, but instead have incorporated a series of case studies into our business review, reflecting the fact that social There have been some interesting developments in UK Corporate responsibility activity is fully integrated into our business.
To the Governance recently, not least of which is the Governments extent that we are required to report certain results, for example our Green Paper, which focuses on executive pay and the desire to carbon use, this is found within our non-financial KPIs on page 38. ensure greater stakeholder engagement, most notably with colleagues in the business.
As you will read in our remuneration I look forward to welcoming shareholders to the Annual General report on pages 56 to 72, we have consulted a number of our Meeting, which will be held in Newcastle on 19 May 2017, and to institutional shareholders and will be seeking approval of our receiving and answering your questions.
remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting.
We believe that our policy strikes an appropriate balance between fair remuneration for everyone and rewarding excellent performance.
Ian Durant In support of this, annual remuneration increases are generally Chairman applied at the same rate to everyone in the Company, including Directors, and a portion of our profits are shared with our colleagues each year.
Colleague engagement is a topic that the Board considered during its annual evaluation in December 2016.
Greggs is a company that strives to engage with its colleagues openly and honestly at all times, particularly when changes to the business structure are being proposed, as you will have read about elsewhere in this years annual report.
Members of the Operating Board regularly meet on a more formal basis with nominated colleague representatives, and informally with listening groups held in our bakeries and shops.
We also conduct an annual Employee Opinion Survey, and the Board was pleased to note that colleague engagement was maintained at 80 per cent when measured in November 2016 which is around five per In 2016 colleague engagement cent better than other companies in the retail sector.
The Board has agreed that, as part of its objectives in 2017, the Non-Executive Directors will gain a deeper understanding of the issues that come out of the employee engagement survey, and that we will participate in some of the formal and informal meetings that take place, as we seek to better understand and build on the culture and values that make this Company a great place for people to work.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 44 Directors Report GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The edition of the Code issued in September 2014 applied throughout the 2016 financial year.
This governance report, together with information contained elsewhere within the Directors report, describes how the relevant principles and provisions of the Governance Code were applied in 2016 and will be relevant to the Company for the 2017 financial year.
The Company has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 index throughout 2016, and maintains a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board confirms that it was compliant with the Governance Code throughout the year, and all of the policies and terms of reference referred to in this report are available on the corporate website at http: corporate.
The Board Effectiveness The Chairman chairs the Nominations Committee whose primary function is to consider the blend of skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board.
This includes independent and objective experience of food retailing and manufacturing, finance, marketing, property and corporate finance to complement the existing skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties.
At these meetings, it reviews strategy, financial performance against key indicators, resources, risk management and other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst executive responsibility for running the Companys business rests ultimately with the Chief Executive, the Non-Executive Directors ensure that the strategies proposed by the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined prior to adoption.
During the year, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors undertook a number of visits and meetings as part of the day-to-day running of the business, in order to ensure that they were sufficiently well-versed in operations to facilitate strong support and challenge.
Each year the Board visits a production site, and in 2016 was able to view the new Distribution Centre at Enfield.
Individually, Non-Executive Directors held a number of one-to-one meetings with members of the Operating Board, attended supplier review meetings, supported management in the recruitment of a new Customer Director, as well as regularly speaking with shop teams across the country.
The Board schedules six meetings per year and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is recorded in the table below, where the number of meetings actually attended are shown with the number of meetings that the individual could have attended.
Remuneration Nominations Main Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 6 4 5 2 Ian Durant 6 6 2 2 Roger Whiteside 6 6 Richard Hutton 6 6 Raymond Reynolds 6 6 Helena Ganczakowski 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 Allison Kirkby 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 Peter McPhillips 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 Sandra Turner 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 All Directors are invited to attend the Audit Committee and the Chief Executive attends the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The business conducted at Committee meetings is reported by the respective Chair at subsequent Board meetings.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet formally twice each year and from time to time, as required.
Board modus operandi The Board has a policy on the separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings in accordance with a specific Schedule of Matters Reserved policy which is reviewed and approved annually and ensures that the Board is supplied, in a timely manner, with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls the Company.
All Directors take decisions objectively and in the interests of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
All Directors receive induction training on joining the Board and regularly update and refresh their knowledge through reading, attendance on relevant courses and or activities outside the Company.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives and discusses reports from each of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
Additionally, and as part of the process of maintaining an awareness of the Companys activities and assessing the ability of the management team, members of the senior management team are invited to attend Board meetings to present papers to the Board.
This process also affords senior managers the opportunity to bring matters to the attention of the Board.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED During the year, the Board received regular updates including: Key priority progress and strategic developments, which in 2016 included full updates on the proposed 100 million investment in our supply chain and progress with the implementation of ERP systems, notably the trial of forecasting and replenishment into 100 stores.
Customer insight, competitor activity marketing and category plans.
Wage negotiations and people issues.
Food safety and health and safety.
The Board sets itself a rolling agenda which facilitates agenda planning for scheduled meetings across the year.
In this way the Board monitors its activities and ensures that it is operating effectively.
Diversity The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company to bring more women through to the top levels of the organisation and, as a result of this belief, a programme which was launched in 2012 to encourage women to strive for the most senior positions in the business.
Our gender reporting is now contained on page 38 of the strategic report.
Succession, development and evaluation The Board is satisfied that a process is in place for orderly succession to the Board and to positions of senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The Chief Executive meets with the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis in order that succession and development plans can be drawn up for Executive Directors and members of the Operating Board.
All Directors are able to receive training and to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
They also have direct access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
Evaluation The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all Directors is evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous process.
In 2015, the Board conducted its first  Board evaluation, which produced encouraging outcomes recognising a collegiate approach with no significant concerns.
Building on this, in 2016 the Board conducted its own evaluation which consisted of a question-based review which resulted in a series of themes that were debated at a Board meeting.
The emerging themes included levels of cyber security, diversity and succession planning at operational level, and consideration of how the Non-Executive Directors could create opportunities to listen to colleagues at every level of the business.
Consequently, it was agreed that the People Director would be asked to provide a deeper review of the results of the 2016 Employee Opinion Survey, so that Non-Executives could then engage directly with shop and bakery teams through existing regular engagement opportunities attended by management.
As a key part of the evaluation process, the Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least annually without the Executive Directors present, and also has one-to-one sessions with every member of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director meets the Non-Executive Directors annually without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Election and re-election of Directors The Board has resolved that, in line with Governance Code provision B.
7.1, all Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Following recommendation by the Nominations Committee, all of the Non-Executive Directors who will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and to be free from any business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely to affect or to interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Board committees The Board delegates some of its activities to the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to and is generally in attendance at each of these committees, and each of the committees is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent Non-Executive Directors: Allison Kirkby Chair, Helena Ganczakowski, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner.
The Committee met four times in the year, and a fuller report on its activities is set out on pages 51 to 55.
The Remuneration Committee currently consists of four independent Non-Executive Directors: Sandra Turner Chair, Helena Ganczakowski, Allison Kirkby and Peter McPhillips.
The Committees main duties which it discharged during the year are set out within the Directors remuneration report which is set out on pages 56 to 72 of this annual report.
This includes for information purposes the Boards proposed new policy on remuneration, which shareholders will be asked to approve at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2017.
The Chairmans fees are reviewed annually and set by the Executive Directors, following the general policy of everyone in the Company receiving the same basic level of pay award.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Ian Durant Chairman and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees main functions which it discharged during the year are: to review the balance and constitution of the Board: to advise the Board as to whether Directors should be nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve and manage the process for setting the specification for all Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that specification and making recommendations to the Board on the basis of merit and compliance with objective criteria in respect of all new Board appointments.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 Directors Report In recruiting additional Directors the Nominations Committee defines the role and uses external consultants to assist in identifying suitable candidates from which the Committee selects a shortlist and conducts interviews.
The final candidate is then subject to formal recommendation by the Committee and approval by the Board.
The Nominations Committee did not seek external consultancy support during 2016.
Following appointment, new Directors are subject to an in-depth tailored induction process.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors, this includes meeting with members of the Operating Board, visiting bakeries, shops and offices, and being provided with an extensive Board Handbook which contains key information and policies that are relevant to the position.
For new Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors for whom the appointment is their first to a UK-listed company, the induction includes details of the legal duties and obligations of being a Director of the Company.
New Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to provide formal feedback of their first months on the Greggs Board during a Board meeting.
Risk management Details of the Companys principal risks and the management of them are set out within the strategic report, and given in pages 39 and 40.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Relations with shareholders The Board ensures that there is effective communication with individual and institutional shareholders through the announcement of regular trading updates, as well as general presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary results and the posting of results on the Companys website.
The Board receives reports on any comments received from shareholders and market analysts following these presentations.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director carry out extensive engagement with institutional shareholders and market analysts, either meeting them as part of Company presentations and briefings, individual meetings or on telephone calls.
The Chairman did not undertake any Greggs-specific meetings with institutional shareholders during 2016, although he regularly attends meetings and events which provide him with the opportunity to engage generally with the investment community.
During the last quarter of 2016, the Remuneration Committee chair engaged with institutional shareholders representing over 50 per cent of the issued share capital, as part of the consultation on the proposed Remuneration Policy which will be put to shareholders at the AGM in May 2017.
The Company Secretary and the Companys Brokers draw the attention of the Board to all relevant shareholder communications.
The Board also reviews briefings and comments by analysts and shareholders in order to maintain an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
The Board reviews at each meeting an analysis of the share register, noting all significant changes.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is well attended, and a short presentation of business performance is given to attendees by the Chief Executive although no non-public sensitive information is shared.
The Chairman and the Chairs of the Board Committees are available to answer any issues raised and any newly-appointed Directors being available to meet shareholders.
During informal sessions both before and after the meeting, the Chairman and all Directors are available to meet with any of the 60 or so individual private shareholders who are in attendance.
This is in addition to the opportunity given to shareholders to ask questions of the Board during the formal meeting.
In 2016, information stalls were set up at the entrance to the meeting informing shareholders of the Companys progress on key social responsibility topics, including farm animal welfare.
At each AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.
All substantial issues, including the receipt of the annual report and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
All resolutions were strongly supported by shareholders and were determined by poll, in accordance with best practice.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, or for circumstances where such contact would not be appropriate.
The Company provides on its website www.
co. uk a significant amount of information both about its customer offerings in the bakery food-on-the-go market, as well as detailed information on the governance arrangements.
Substantial shareholdings At 28 February 2017 the only notified holdings of substantial voting rights in respect of the issued share capital of the Company which may have altered since the date of such notification, without any requirement for the Company to have been informed were: Percentage Number of of issued shares held share capital MFS Investment Management 5,314,697 5.25% Standard Life 5,153,213 5.09% Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Accountability, audit and going concern The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In order to assist the Board to comply with the requirements within the Governance Code, the Audit Committee was requested to undertake an assessment of the annual report and to make a recommendation to the Board.
This request has been enshrined within the Audit Committees terms of reference, which are available at http: corporate.
The actions undertaken by the Audit Committee in confirming its advice to the Board included the consideration of a detailed review that has been undertaken by the Head of Business Assurance and reviewing the annual report as a whole to conform that it presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
In considering the advice of the Audit Committee and having reviewed the annual report including the contents of the strategic report on pages 3 to 41, together with the statutory accounts themselves, the Board duly considers the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
A statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of accounts is given on page 73.
A statement of auditors responsibilities is given in the report of the auditor on page 76.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts see basis of preparation on page 82.
The Boards viability statement made in accordance with Code provision C. 2.2: can be found on page 41.
Policies Freedom of association At Greggs, we recognise the right of all employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Whilst we do not have a formal Freedom of Association policy, the Company encourages all its employees in bakeries, shops and offices to become, and remain, members of a union.
Bribery and corruption Greggs has an Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy which applies to all employees and prohibits the offering, giving, seeking or acceptance of any bribe in any form to any person or company by anyone acting on its behalf, in order to gain an advantage in an unethical way.
Business conduct We have a specific policy that sets out the standards of ethical behaviour that are expected of all employees.
Whistle-blowing Our whistle-blowing policy creates an environment where employees are able to raise concerns without fears of disciplinary action being taken against them as a result of any disclosure.
Any matters raised are treated in confidence and an independent review will be undertaken where this is appropriate.
The Chair of the Audit Committee is the designated first point of contact for any concerns which cannot be addressed through normal management processes.
Political donations Greggs has a clear policy forbidding political donations or contributions.
This includes financial and in-kind contributions made by the Company.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that, so far as they are individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 48
