Governance continued 44 ACCOUNTABILITY: NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Who are the members?
How many times did the Nominations Committee meet in 2016 and who attends?
LEE FELDMAN CHAIRMAN The Nominations Committee was established by the Board in April 2016.
The Nominations Committee met once in 2016 and all members were present.
PETER ISOLA The Company Secretary attends all Nominations Committees to record meetings and provide advice to the Directors.
STEPHEN MORANA The CEO is normally invited to attend each meeting and the HR Director may With the exception of the Chairman, all the members are deemed be invited to attend from time to time to participate in discussions about independent by the Board.
Lee Feldman was deemed independent succession planning.
when appointed Chairman of the Board.
What has the Nominations Committee been doing?
What does the Nominations Committee do?
In 2016 the Nominations Committee addressed the need to recruit a new Chief The Board has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the Financial officer following Richard Coopers decision to step down as a Director appointment of new Directors to the Board by appointing a Nominations in early 2017.
Guided by the Chairman and CEO, with assistance to nd suitable Committee to lead the process of appointment and make recommendations to candidates from Shefeld Haworth, a recruitment rm, Paul Miles, the Chief the Board.
The Nominations Committee also advises the Board on its structure, Financial officer at Wonga, was eventually identied as the appropriate successor size, composition and matters of Director and senior management succession.
to ll the Chief Financial officer position.
Following a recommendation from the Nominations Committee, the Board decided to proceed with the appointment of The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee are available on GVCs PaulMiles, who joined the Company on 20 February 2017 and became Chief corporate website at: Financial officer on 28 February 2017.
The Nominations Committee retained Heidrick & Struggles in 2016 to nd candidates with the necessary knowledge and expertise to take on the Senior Independent Director SID role.
Following various discussions and meetings amongst the Nominations Committee members and candidates, in March 2017 the Nominations Committee recommended to the appointment of Will Whitehorn as a Non-executive Director.
The Board resolved to make this appointment with effect http: gvc-plc.
Both Shefeld Haworth and Heidrick & Struggles follow best practice and adopt the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 45 As disclosed on page 40 of these corporate governance statements, the Directors Has the Nominations Committee reviewed are conscious of the general political and cultural desire to have greater gender theGroupssuccession plans?
diversity on boards of directors.
Whilst women candidates were eligible for the roles The Nominations Committee started a process for formalising and documenting mentioned above, the Nominations Committee has begun a specic process of asuccession plan for the Directors and members of the senior management team.
identifying female candidates with the necessary skills, knowledge and expertise The plan covers short-term emergency cover in the event someone is incapacitated to join the Board as an independent Non-executive Director.
The aim is to have or unavoidably unavailable on a temporary basis and also long-term succession appointed at least one female Director by the end of 2017.
The Nominations should an individual leave the Group.
Committee intends to follow the process set out below: A working draft succession plan was reviewed by the Nominations Committee in The Nominations Committee agrees a specication for the independent Non-executive Director role.
March 2017 and is subject to further development to ensure the plan is thorough and coherent.
The revised plan will be reviewed again in 2017.
The Nominations Committee decides on which search and selection rm to use for the project.
Has the Nominations Committee made any recommendations regarding the re-appointments With the role specication the search and selection rm look for suitable candidates.
In March 2017 the Nominations Committee met and reviewed the proposed re-appointments at the 2017 AGM of: The recruitment rm presents a long-list of candidates with biographies for the role which is reviewed by the Nominations Committee and the candidates narrowed down to a short-list.
Karl Diacono The recruitment rm ascertains the chosen candidates availability and interest in the role and 3.
Lee Feldman arranges interviews with the Nominations Committee members.
Paul Miles Candidates interviewed by the Nominations Committee members, who then feedback to the Chairman.
The candidates also meet with the CEO to give them the opportunity to ask questions 6.
Stephen Morana about the Groups business.
Norbert Teufelberger The Nominations Committee meets and decides on which candidates to recommend for 8.
Will Whitehorn appointment to the role.
On the basis of experience, performance, skills and commitment demonstrated, and also in light of the results of the 2016 Board evaluation results, the Nominations Committee advised the Board that it is appropriate to recommend each of the The Board considers the recommendations from the Nominations Committee and resolves whether to make an appointment or refer the recruitment process back to the Nominations Committee for Directors for reappointment.
Lee Feldman Throughout any recruitment the process the Nominations Committee operates Chairman of the Nominations Committee within the parameters of the Companys diversity policy.
The diversity policy ensures 23 March 2017 the Group engages trains and promotes employees on the basis of their capabilities, qualications and experience.
The policy forbids discrimination or pressure to discriminate by its employees or others acting on the Groups behalf or their employees, contractors or customers in respect of age, sex, sexual orientation, race, ethnic origin, marital status or civil partnership, nationality, disabilities, political or religious beliefs, or on any other criteria unrelated to an individuals ability to perform the duties.
The policy also sets out how the diversity guidelines impact recruitment, selection and promotion, learning and development, the management of part-time workers and individual employee responsibilities for ensuring enforcement and compliance with the policy.
Owing to the breadth of diversity existing across the Group, diversity ratios or objectives have not been set.
