47 Who is responsible for the preparation of the What significant issues did the Audit Committee GVCnancial statements?
consider in relation to the 2016 financial statements and how were these addressed?
Ultimately the Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the GVCs position and prospects, which extends to the half year and annual During 2016 following the Companys admission to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing financial statements.
Authority with a Standard Listing in February 2016, the Audit Committee engaged in reviewing the first quarter 2016 audited financial statements and working capital reports prepared for the purpose of the Company stepping up to a Premium Listing DELEGATION in August 2016.
Throughout the course of the year, the Audit Committee determined the following areas of the financial statements were of significant interest.
These issues were GVCs finance department, The Head of Investor Relations The Company Secretary discussed with management and the external auditors to ensure that the required led by the CFO, prepares the coordinates with the CEO, CFO prepares with the Chairman of nancialstatements.
and Chairman the preparation the Board and the Chairmen of level of disclosure is provided and that appropriate rigour has been applied where of any statements on GVCs the various Board Committees any judgement may be exercised.
position, performance, business the corporate governance model and strategy.
statements and all Board Acquisition accounting committee reports.
The GVC Group successfully completed the acquisition of bwin.
party digital entertainment plc on 1 February 2016.
The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in connection with the accounting treatment, to determine EXTERNAL REVIEW whether the assets and liabilities recognised in the financial statements are carried at an appropriate fair value.
The Committee reviewed the purchase price allocation prepared by external professional advisers, together with the underlying GVCs external auditors audit the annual financial accounts and review the half year accounts together judgements and forecasts used to determine the fair value of intangible assets.
with any business or corporate governance commentary.
A report to Audit Committee isprepared.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the approach taken by the Group was appropriate and in accordance with IFRS 3: Business Combinations.
COMMITTEES REVIEW Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets During the year, the Audit Committee also considered the judgements made in relation to the valuation methodology adopted by management to support the The Audit Committee reviews the draft financial For the Annual Report, the Remuneration carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether statements and accompanying statements Committee and Nominations Committee there was a risk of material misstatement in the carrying value of these assets and meets with the external auditors to review review the Directors Remuneration Report and and whether any impairment should be recognised.
The Committee considered their report.
The Audit Committee proposes Nominations Committee Report respectively, the assumptions, estimates and judgements made by management to support amendments and makes recommendations propose changes and make recommendations totheBoard and also approves the Audit tothe Board.
the models that underpin the valuation of intangible assets in the balance sheet.
Business plans and cashow forecasts prepared by management supporting the future performance expectations used in the calculation were reviewed.
This was further facilitated by the review of the reporting accountants findings on the Groups BOARD REVIEW working capital report as part of the move to the Premium Listing Segment of the UKLA, where models in respect to market growth, projections and projected cash ows were independently tested.
The impairment review was also an area Board reviews the financial statements, accompanying reports and recommendations from its of focus for the external auditor, who reported their findings to the Committee.
committees and makes changes to the disclosures where appropriate.
The Committee satisfied itself that no material impairments were required to the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets, as outlined in note 8 to the financial statements.
AUDITOR SIGN-OFF External auditors carry out final review and sign-off the audit report Annual Report or review report half year results.
BOARD APPROVAL AND PUBLISH The Board approves the year-end financial statements and disclosures and the half year report andthese are then released to the stock exchange and published on GVCs corporate website.
In respect of the financial statements and accompanying reports for the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company has followed the process detailed above.
In doing so, the Directors confirm that they have reviewed the complete 2016 Annual Report and considered that taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for GVCs shareholders toassess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
