Governance continued 40 EFFECTIVENESS: GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Tenure and succession How does the Board ensure it is effective?
To ensure the independent directors continue to be independent in character and Composition judgement, the UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that Non-executive The Board has a majority of Non-executive Directors.
Drawing on their various Directors should not serve for more than nine years from the date on which they are backgrounds and extensive executive and business experience, the Non-executive first elected by shareholders.
The tenures of the current directors deemed by the Directors engage with the Executive Directors, who manage the day to day business, Board to be independent are as follows: in formulating the direction and strategy of the Company.
The Non-executive Directors oversee the implementation of this strategy and challenge management Director First election Tenure when appropriate.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, a Karl Diacono 2009 8 majority of the Directors, excluding the Chairman, are deemed to be independent, Peter Isola 2016 1 helping to ensure the Company is run in the interests of all shareholders.
The Chairman was deemed to be independent on appointment.
Stephen Morana 2016 1 Will Whitehorn 2017 0 CHAIRMAN LEE FELDMAN Regular meetings Non-independent During 2016 the Board had five scheduled meetings.
Attendance at these meetings Independent Non-executive Executive was as follows: Karl Diacono Norbert Teufelberger Kenneth Alexander Meetings Meetings Peter Isola Paul Miles entitled actually Director to attend attended Stephen Morana Richard Cooper until 28.02.17 Will Whitehorn Kenneth Alexander 5 5 Richard Cooper 5 5 Knowledge and experience Karl Diacono 5 5 The Directors have a wide range of backgrounds and extensive knowledge Lee Feldman 5 5 ofmany sectors: Peter Isola 4 4 Accountancy Stephen Morana 4 4 Electronic payments Norbert Teufelberger 4 4 Entertainment These meetings covered the following areas of business: Finance and investment The legal mechanics of effecting the acquisition of bwin.
Gaming The appointment of two new independent Non-executive Directors.
Healthcare Regular reports from the Executive Directors.
Insurance Regular reports from the senior executive team on operations, business Law and regulation integration, product development, regulatory developments, litigation and investor relations.
Retail Planning the step up to the Premium Listing.
Technology Implementing various corporate governance steps expected of a Premium Transport Listed company.
The Board is also diverse geographically, with nationals from the USA, UK, Austria, Gibraltar and Malta.
This aids the Boards discussions and decision-making process Block listing shares in regard to various share plans.
given our businesses operate in international markets.
For the last six years there has been general encouragement for companies to Reviewing and approving all steps required for the step up to a Premium Listing, appoint more women as directors, in recognition that more than half the worlds including the working capital and FPPP reports and audited financial statements.
population is female and they may encourage an improved Board decision-making process, with more insightful and balanced deliberations.
The GVC Board supports Options for renancing the loan from Cerberus taken up to facilitate the nancing the rationale for seeking greater gender diversity on boards of directors and ofthe acquisition of bwin.
considers this diversity matter during the recruitment process.
It is GVCs aim to Review of the Groups tax strategy and management.
have at least one women serving on the Board in the next 12 months, although theBoard is mindful that gender is one of a handful of key areas of consideration Appointment of a Disclosure Committee to assist with compliance with the and the Board will always focus on a candidates experience, knowledge and skills Companys new Market Abuse Regime obligations.
Approving the 2016 half year results.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
