43 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Are there any other statutory or good bythe European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and practicedisclosures?
explained in the financial statements: and Customer and creditor payment policy provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements The Group is committed to prompt payment of customer cash-out requests and in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular maintains adequate cash reserves to cover customer withdrawals and balances.
transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and Normally payments will be made to customers within three days of receiving a financial performance.
In the case of other creditors, it is the Groups policy to agree terms at the outset of a transaction and ensure compliance with such agreed terms.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are In the event that an invoice is contested then the Group informs the supplier without sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable delay and seeks to settle the dispute quickly.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are Going concern also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
development, performance and position are set out in the Strategy section page9 of this Annual Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cashow, In addition, the Directors at the date of this report consider that the financial liquidity position and borrowings are set out in the aforementioned section.
statements taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide In addition, note 25 to the financial statements on pages 99 to 103 includes the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, theGroups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial business model and strategy.
risk management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities: Financial statements are published on the Companys website in accordance and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
withlegislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination The Group has considerable financial resources together with a large number of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of players and long-term contracts with a number of corporate customers and The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity Directors believe the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully ofthe financial statements contained therein.
in the current despite the current challenging economic outlook.
12 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and At 31 December 2016, the Group was in net current liabilities position due to loans Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: existing at that point.
The Group subsequently has negotiated a long-term borrowing the Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS facility at a signicantly reduced cost to the business.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group: and Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going the business and the financial position of the Group and the Company, together concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Directors report The Directors have elected to prepare the Annual Report and the financial Together with the CEOs review pages 6 to 8, the Operational overview pages statements for the Company and the Group in accordance with International 16 to 20 and Chief Financial Ofcers Review pages 26 to 31 sections of this Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
Annual Report, this corporate governance section pages 34 to 63 constitutes The Directors are responsible under applicable law and regulation for keeping theDirectors Report for the year ended 31 December 2016. proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets and for taking Lee Feldman reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Chairman International Accounting Standard 1 IAS revised requires that financial 23 March 2017 statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent:
