Governance Corporate Governance Statement 34 GOVERNANCE AT WORK The Board looks to encourage a culture of strong governance across the business, and continues to adopt the principles of good governance by adhering to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for creating andpreserving the long-term success and performance of the business.
The key principles of the codeare outlined below: LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS The Board provides leadership either directly or through the operation of The Board sets the strategic objectives and approves and monitors performance its committees.
The Chairman is ultimately responsible for the make-up against budgets and forecasts.
An evaluation process is regularly undertaken to and composition of the Board to best deliver the business strategy.
ensure Board members have the necessary skills in place.
Being effective also means maintaining relationships and continued engagement with shareholders.
ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the risk management The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and maintain a fair and internal controls and has delegated the responsibility to ensure compliance reward structure that attracts the right talent and incentivises Directors to with the new code to the Audit & Risk Committee.
deliver its strategic objectives and maintain stability of management.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 35 WE UNDERTOOK AN EXTENSIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE JOURNEY IN2016.
VC successfully undertook an extensive In 2017, we have appointed two further directors.
Paul Miles was appointed Chief Financial officer on Lee Feldman G We started the year as an AIM-listed company, 28 February following Richard Coopers departure Chairman of the Board before obtaining a Standard Listing on the London from that role after nine years.
In addition, as disclosed Stock Exchanges Main Market on 2 February in previously, the Board has been searching for a 23 March 2017 conjunction with the completion of the acquisition Senior Independent Director to enhance the Boards of bwin.
The Company then went through knowledge and decision-making process and to the process of transferring to a Premium Listing.
comply with the UK Corporate Governance Codes This required a significant amount of work upgrading recommendation.
I am pleased to inform shareholders the Companys corporate governance processes that the Board has today announced the appointment and procedures.
GVC successfully transferred to a of Will Whitehorn as the Senior Independent Director.
Will is a highly experienced business professional and is a significant appointment to the Group.
He is During 2016 GVC appointed three new Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Directors to the Board.
Stephen Morana, who also took of Stagecoach Group plc and is an Independent on the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee, is Non-executive Director of Purplebricks plc.
The search widely recognised for his accounting and e-commerce process for this role is set out in the Nominations expertise, particularly as a specialist in the online Committees Report on pages44 and 45. gaming sector having spent ten years as part of the management team at Betfair plc, serving as Chief Following todays Senior Independent Director Financial officer and also interim CEO in 2012. appointment, the Company is now in compliance Peter Isola is an expert in gaming law and regulation with all but one of the recommendations of the UK with experience advising numerous e-commerce Corporate Governance Code, the remaining exception clients.
Norbert Teufelberger was the former CEO relating to certain contractual termination terms for of bwin and bwin.
party and has nearly 20 years of myself and the CEO which pre-date the Company experience in online gaming operations.
becoming Premium Listed please see page 42.
Both Stephen and Peter are regarded by the Board as independent, thereby ensuring that, excluding the Chairman, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation, theNon-independent Directors are not in a majority.
