41 Appointment of a new Chief Financial officer.
The Company Secretary is available to all Directors to offer guidance and advice on corporate governance, company law and share plan matters.
The Company Reports from the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Secretary presents a report at each Board meeting updating the Directors on Nominations Committees.
share capital and shareholder changes, Group corporate structure changes and corporate governance developments.
GVCs Head of Legal is also available to all Merger and acquisition opportunities.
Directors to provide advice on general legal and regulatory issues.
In addition, a The disposal of non-core assets.
formal procedure has also been adopted allowing Directors to seek independent professional advice where they believe it is necessary in order for them to full their In addition to the scheduled meetings described above, ad hoc Board meetings duties to the Company.
Board committees are also authorised by the Board under werealso convened at short notice in 2016, to deal with the following matters: their terms of reference to retain external advice as required for each committee Agreeing the Nomura bridging loan for repaying the Cerberus loan tocarry out its duties.
In accordance with best practice, the Board conducts an evaluation of the Consideration of potential corporate transaction opportunities.
performance of the Board, its committees, individuals and the Chairman.
For the 2016 evaluation process, the Directors followed the process described in the chart Adopting the Companys distribution policy and the payment of a special dividend.
A third party advisory rm was not engaged on this occasion to facilitate the exercise, but in accordance with the Codes recommendation, the Board will retain Board meetings are usually held in Gibraltar, where the Groups gaming business such a rm to support the annual evaluation process at least once every three years.
The Companys articles of association prohibit any Board or BoardCommittee meeting from being held in the United Kingdom.
A list of evaluation questions is drawn up by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Meetings without Executive Directors present Secretary.
Any questions relating to the performance of the Chairman of the Board are set The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Chairman meets with bytheSID in consultation with the Company Secretary.
the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present at least once a year.
This meeting will happen in connection with the annual Board performance evaluation process, however, it is not unusual for the Chairman to conduct these The questions are circulated to the Directors via a secure website and are answered online.
meetings more frequently, particularly if the Company is contemplating a significant transaction.
The Chairman reports back to the full Board any recommendations arising from these meetings.
The Secretary collates the results and reports the results to the Chairman and the feedback on the Chairmans performance to the SID.
How does the Board decide on making changes toitsmembership?
The Chairman discusses the results of the The SID meets with the Non-executive Directors Board, individual and committee performance to review the results of the evaluation of The Board has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment evaluations with the Board and with individual the Chairmans performance.
The SID then of new Directors by appointing a Nominations Committee to lead the process of Directors where necessary.
Possible options for discusses with the Chairman these results and appointment and make recommendations to the Board.
The Nominations Committee addressing any issues arising from the review any further feedback from the Non-executive also advises the Board on its structure, size, composition and matters of Director are considered and action agreed.
A report from the Nominations Committee onits work appears on pages 44 to 45.
For the purpose of conducting the 2016 review only, because the Company did not have a SID, Stephen Morana, the Audit Committee Chairman, stepped in to full the How do Directors develop in the role and full SIDs role in this evaluation process.
What came out of the first performance A full induction programme is provided to new Directors, which is specically tailored to the needs and experience of the new Director and the committees on evaluationprocesses?
The programme provides corporate governance information provided Matters identied Action taken by the Company Secretary which is both general in nature eg UK Corporate Governance Code, remuneration best practice and specic to the Company More regular access to the senior To begin from the next Board meeting eg the risk register, etc.. New Directors may also meet with the Companys management team external auditors and advisers as part of the induction process.
After the induction Risk mitigation management The Board and Audit Committee to more programme from time to time the Company Secretary noties Directors of courses effectively challenge management on the and seminars conducted by corporate governance bodies and professional advisers mitigating action taken to manage risk that Directors may nd helpful.
Increase knowledge and understanding Greater access to be given to PwC, the Working with the Chairman the Company Secretary ensures good information of executive remuneration practices remuneration consultant, beginning with the anddevelopments design of the new 2018 remuneration policy ows within the Board and its committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is the guardian of all Board procedures and advises the Chairman and other Directors when required.
Agendas and accompanying reports are prepared for each Board or committee meeting and circulated via a secure data-room in advance of each meeting.
Between scheduled meetings, Directors are updated on business developments with email reports, management accounts and regulatory updates and, where necessary, the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of a committee will convene a conference call to discuss and reach agreement on material urgent matters.
