Governance continued 46 ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee also oversees corporate social responsibility Who are the members?
matters and in this respect ensures that the Group has policies and effective controls regarding the following: STEPHEN MORANA CHAIRMAN compliance with the gaming and financial services licences held by the Company or any of its subsidiaries: KARL DIACONO gambling licence probity matters: PETER ISOLA anti-money laundering: Stephen Morana is a qualied chartered accountant and is regarded the fairness and integrity of the Companys gaming and trading systems and as the Audit Committee member with recent and relevant financial the process for managing any challenges to the fairness and or integrity of andindustry experience.
these systems: What does the Audit Committee do?
privacy and data protection: Monitors the integrity of GVCs financial statements and any formal charitable donations and investment in the local community: and announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and the Groups suppliers and service providers.
reviews, and challenges where necessary, the actions and judgements ofmanagement in relation to the half-year and annual financial statements The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available on GVCs corporate before these are submitted to the Board for final approval.
pdf?v 230816 Makes recommendations to the Board concerning any proposed, new or amended accounting policy.
How many times did Audit Committee meet in 2016?
Meets with the external auditors post-audit at the reporting stage to discuss The Audit Committee met three times in 2016 and attendance was as follows: the audit, including problems and reservations arising from the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss in the absence of GVC Director Attendance and total number of management, where appropriate.
meetings to which the Director wasentitled to attend Recommends the audit fee to the Board and sets GVCs policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Stephen Morana 3 3 Karl Diacono 3 3 Considers and make recommendations to the Board about the appointments of the head of the internal audit function and also the external auditors as Peter Isola 3 3 well as the re-appointment of the latter.
The Company Secretary attends all Audit Committee meetings to take the minutes Monitors and reviews the internal audit programme and its effectiveness.
and advise the Directors where required.
The Internal Audit Executive and external audit partners directors also attend every Audit Committee meeting and during the Ensures co-ordination between the internal audit department and the year the Audit Committee does periodically meet with these individuals without any external auditors, and that the internal audit department is adequately GVC management present.
The Chief Executive officer CEO, Chief Financial resourced and has appropriate standing within GVC.
officer CFO, and senior members of the finance function are normally invited to Considers any major audit recommendations and the major findings attend each meeting.
ofinternal investigations and managements response in the absence ofmanagement, where appropriate.
Monitors and reviews GVCs systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
Reviews the individual internal audit reports covering the various areas andactivities of the business.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
