Audit Committee Report Chairmans Introduction Throughout the year, the Audit Committee has continued its work of reviewing the effectiveness of Halfords corporate governance framework with particular emphasis on the quality of financial reporting, internal control, and risk management systems.
I am pleased to present The Committees oversight of risk and internal control has been further strengthened this year through two significant ongoing the report of the Audit initiatives.
Firstly, recognising the usefulness of an earlier presentation Committee for the financial on cybersecurity risk from KPMG, we have initiated a series of management briefings to the Committee.
The briefings explain in year ended 1 April 2016. detail how selected key areas of business risk are managed.
The Committee has already received presentations on retail product quality and safety assurance processes, and on retail erosion management.
Secondly, in response to the requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee receives a specific update from Internal Audit at each meeting to allow it to monitor the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
These updates were provided throughout the year.
This report explains in detail how the Committee undertook its duties.
David Adams Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 June 2016 Fast Fact Bikes in Sir Bradley 8 Wiggins range for kids - launching in July 2016 Fast Fact Womens bikes accounted for 25% of all bike sales at Halfords Fast Fact figures relate to 4th April 2015 - 1st April 2016 54 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information The Audit Committee has reviewed its Terms of Reference and its Membership and Remit of the Audit Committee composition during the year and believes that both are appropriate.
Membership Copies of full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys All the members of the Audit Committee are independent website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Having been the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of House of Fraser Plc, and currently chairing Principal Activities during the year two other listed companies Audit Committees, The Audit Committee met three times during the year with the David Adams is considered by the Board to have recent and following timetable: relevant financial experience and so the requisite experience to chair the Committee.
Each of the other independent NonExecutive Directors has, through their other business activities, June 2015 significant experience in financial matters.
Review of Year End Chief Financial Officers Report The Chairman of the Companys Board, Executive Directors, Recommend the Preliminary Statement to the Board for senior managers and key advisors are invited to attend Approval meetings as appropriate in order to ensure that the Committee Recommend the Annual Report to the Board for Approval maintains a current and well-informed view of events within the business, and to reinforce a strong risk management culture.
Review of External Auditors Report The Audit Committee meets according to the requirements of Review Statement of External Auditors Independence the Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for the independent Review of Internal Audit Full-Year Report, including update Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors on the companys risk management and internal control present and to raise any issues of concern with the Auditor.
There systems have been three such meetings in the period ended Approval of Internal Audit Charter 1 April 2016 and nothing of note was reported.
November 2015 b. Remit Review of Half-Year Chief Financial Officers Report The Audit Committees responsibilities include: Recommend the Interim Statement to the Board for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment Approval of the external Auditor, including on effectiveness, independence, non-audit work undertaken against a formal Review of External Auditors Half-Year Report policy and remuneration: Review of Internal Audit Progress Report including update reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices on the companys risk management and internal control adopted throughout the period: systems reviewing and approving external financial reporting for Approval of External Auditor Non-Audit Fee Policy adoption by the Board: Review of anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment and assisting the Board in achieving its obligations under the approval of Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy UK Corporate Governance Code in areas of risk management Approval of Group Treasury Policy and internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Management presentation on retail product quality and Rules: safety assurance processes ensuring that an effective system of internal financial and Review of Committee Terms of Reference non-financial controls is maintained: March 2016 approving a formal whistleblowing policy whereby staff may, Review of External Auditors Annual Strategy and Fees in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses Review of Internal Audit Progress Report and Annual or any of its employees without fear of reprisal, and includes Strategy including update on the Companys internal arrangements to investigate and respond to any issues raised: control systems approving the Companys systems and controls for the Review of Group Register of Risks and Controls prevention of bribery and corruption, including the receipt of Review of Group Whistleblowing Policy any reports on non-compliance: and Management presentation on retail erosion management approving the Groups Treasury Policy, including foreign currency and interest rate exposure.
com 55 slugline Audit Committee Report continued The Committee also met on 26 May 2016.
Amongst other pieces In addition at its meeting in March 2016, the Committee performed of business, the Committee reviewed the year-end Chief Financial a specific evaluation of the performance of the external Officers and external Auditors reports, and recommended the auditor considering the areas set out above and feedback from Preliminary Statement and Annual Report to the Board for approval.
Following this, the Committee concluded that: The Committee received a presentation from management The overall audit approach, materiality, threshold, and areas of addressing the commercial aspects and financial reporting issues audit focus were appropriate to the business: and associated with supplier rebates.
The audit team possessed the necessary quality, expertise and Significant Issues in Relation to the Financial Statements experience to provide an independent and objective audit.
In order to discharge its responsibility to consider accounting integrity, the Committee carefully considers key judgements applied b Approach to appointment or reappointment in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements which KPMG LLP formerly KPMG Audit plc was appointed as external are set out on pages 78 to 119.
The Committees review included Auditor to the Group in 2009 following a formal tender process.
consideration of the following key accounting judgements: Since that time, KPMG LLP has complied with the partner rotation requirement set out in Ethical Standards for Auditors, with the Impairment of Goodwill associated with Autocentres most recent rotation taking place in 2014.
Following the acquisition of Nationwide in 2010, the Group The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the holds significant goodwill in the Halfords Autocentre business.
Auditor is working well and is satisfied with its independence, There are a number of factors that could impact on the future objectivity and effectiveness and has not considered it necessary profitability of the business e. g. loss of key customer, change to require KPMG LLP to re-tender for external audit work this year.
in market behaviour and there is therefore a risk that the The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board, for approval business may not meet the growth projections necessary to by shareholders at the AGM on 26 July 2016, the reappointment of support the carrying value of the intangible asset see note 11 KPMG LLP as external Auditor.
c Approach to safeguarding objectivity and independence The Audit Committee has received detailed reports from if non-audit services are provided Halfords finance team and external Auditor addressing this issue.
The Audit Committee has established a policy to ensure that Consideration has been given to ensuring that cash flow models, any non-audit services delivered by the external Auditor will not discount rates, sensitivity analysis and centre profitability are all jeopardise objectivity and independence.
The policy is consistent reasonable.
The Committee concluded that it is satisfied with the with Ethical Standards for Auditors.
accounting treatment of impairment of goodwill.
The policy specifies: Valuation of inventory within the retail division The external Auditor can be used to provide non-audit services With the business holding a wide range of stock, it is likely that subject to any non-audit engagement proposal provided by the changing consumer demands will mean that some lines cannot external Auditor being formally approved by the Audit Committee be sold, or will be sold at below the carrying value.
Provisions before contractual arrangements are entered into, except for are made to reflect this.
Given the difficulties in forecasting i.
Half year review: and market trends, there is a risk that inventory provisions made will be inappropriate or incomplete see note 13 of the financial ii.
Internal support services supplied by the auditors in order to statements.
Management has an established methodology for support the Companys own internal audit function in determining assessing inventory provisions.
Range reviews are regularly and executing the Companys annual Internal Audit plan.
undertaken to ensure that all discontinued inventory is Other than for the above, for each separate service proposed identified.
to be provided by the Auditor, the Group Chief Financial Officer The Audit Committee has received detailed reports from will prepare a note either to be tabled and minuted at an Audit Halfords finance team and external Auditor addressing this Committee meeting or to be circulated via email to the Audit issue.
After consideration of the accuracy of the provisioning Committee members and the CEO giving a description of the work model, the completeness and accuracy of range reviews, to be undertaken, the reasons why the Auditor is involved in the and the reflection of these reviews within the provisions, the proposal and how objectivity and independence has, and is seen Committee concluded that it is satisfied with the accounting to be, safeguarded.
treatment of the valuation of inventory.
Consent is required from the Audit Committee Chair on behalf of External Auditors the Audit Committee before the Auditor can be engaged for nona.
Effectiveness of external audit audit services.
The effectiveness of the external audit is considered throughout In addition, the external Auditor follows its own ethical guidelines the year through, amongst other factors, assessment of the and continually reviews is audit team to ensure that its degree of the audit firms challenge of key estimates and independence is not compromised.
judgements made by the business, feedback from any external or internal quality reviews on the audit and the wider quality of An analysis of the fees earned by the external Auditor is disclosed communication with the Committee.
in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
56 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information Fast Fact Halfords helped 185k kids onto their first bike, a 5% increase year-on-year Fast Fact figures relate to 4th April 2015 - 1st April 2016 The Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure was reviewed and Role and Effectiveness of Internal Audit approved by the Audit Committee and was subject to an internal audit The Company has a dedicated in-house Internal Audit team, which review during the year.
The Company Secretary provides the Audit is able to obtain advice from external specialists if necessary.
Committee with a regular summary of whistleblowing contacts and The team principally reviews the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed schedule resolutions.
of independent audits each year.
The Audit Committee determines Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy the nature and scope of the annual audit programme and revises it The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy statement reinforces from time to time according to changing business circumstances and that the Halfords Board is committed to conducting its business requirements.
The Audit Committee also confirms that Internal Audit affairs so as to ensure that it does not engage in or facilitate any has appropriate resources available to it.
The annual audit programme form of corruption.
It is Halfords policy to prohibit all forms of is derived from an audit universe including financial and commercial corruption amongst our employees, suppliers and any associated processes, governance issues, and key corporate risks.
parties acting on our behalf.
The Group has a detailed Anti-Bribery Internal Audit reports on a day-to-day basis to the Groups Chief and Corruption Policy and maintains Gifts and Hospitality Registers.
Financial Officer, but is independent in action and reporting of issues, Anti-bribery expectations are set out in standard purchasing terms with direct line of communication to the Audit Committee Chairman.
Face-to-face and online training has been provided The findings of the independent audits are reported initially to to colleagues to raise the awareness of anti-bribery and corruption executive management and any necessary corrective actions are legislation.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed The Audit Committee has requested that Anti-Bribery and Corruption with, the Audit Committee along with details of progress against safeguards are periodically reviewed by Internal Audit.
Internal Control and Risk Management Whistleblowing Details of the Groups internal control and risk management A Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure enables colleagues to report framework are set out on page 47. concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, without fear of recrimination.
Posters publicising whistleblowing channels are distributed to all stores, Autocentres, distribution centres and the Support Centre.
