STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit Committee monitor announcements relating to the COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Groups financial performance: The Committee currently comprises the five independent non-executive Directors.
Internal Controls The following members served on the monitor the effectiveness of internal Committee during the year: controls and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code: Jane Aikman Chairman Stephen Pettit retired 23 July 2015 review the operation of the Groups risk Daniela Barone Soares management processes and the control Roy Twite environment over financial risks: Tony Rice Carole Cran appointed 1 January 2016 Risk Management review and provide oversight, on behalf of COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance the Board, of the processes by which risks This is the last Report that I will present Director are also in attendance at Committee are managed: to shareholders in my role as Chairman meetings.
Representatives from the external review the process undertaken and stress of the Audit Committee and I am proud of Auditor and the Internal Audit Manager are testing required to approve the Groups the work that the Committee has achieved invited to join the meeting for certain agenda Viability Statement and Going Concern in improving and embedding the control items.
The Committee, and separately the statement: framework throughout Halma.
I am working Committee Chairman, meet with the Internal closely with Carole Cran, who will succeed Audit Manager on a regular basis.
Fraud and Whistleblowing me as Committee Chairman after the 2016 receive reports on the processes in place ACTIVITIES IN 2015 16 Annual General Meeting, and I wish her throughout the Group to prevent and success in building on the solid foundation The Committee spends a significant amount detect fraud and to enable employees that has been laid during my tenure.
of time reviewing the effectiveness of the to raise concerns in confidence: Groups risk management and internal control During the year, the Committee continued receive reports on fraud attempts process which supports its oversight of the tofocus on the effectiveness of the Groups or incidents: integrity of its financial reporting.
Further controls and areas to improve awareness detailon the areas reviewed by Committee Internal Audit andcompliance.
The increased awareness throughout the year are set out in the table agree the Internal Audit work programme ofthe identification and monitoring of risks on page 70. and regularly review reports arising from atall levels, carried out at the Committees internal audits: request, has improved the Committees Allocation of time oversight of risk.
monitor the resourcing and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: The Committee agreed the content of the continue to strengthen the Internal Audit Viability Statement following a thorough function to match the growth and process of review and stress testing the complexity of the Group: assumptions.
The Viability Statement is set out on page 68 above.
monitor the status of actions resulting from internal audits and consider I hope that you find this Report helpful in remedial action for overdue items: understanding the work of the Committee generally and the matters that it has External Audit considered over the past year.
manage the relationship with the Groups external auditor: Financial statements and business reports 43% ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Risk management 11% monitor and review the independence The Committee is appointed by the Internal audit 11% and performance of the external auditor Board and operates under written terms External audit 28% and, at least annually, formally evaluate of reference, which are available on the Other 7% their effectiveness: Groups website.
The primary role and review the policy on non-audit services GOVERNANCE responsibilities of the Committee is to: carried out by the external auditor, taking The Committee meets at least three account of relevant ethical guidance: times per year and routinely meets with Financial Reporting the external Auditor without the executive review significant financial reporting negotiate and agree the external auditors Directors present.
It is chaired by Jane judgements and accounting policies and fee: Aikman, independent non-executive Director, compliance with accounting standards: lead the audit tender process at least who isachartered accountant with recent ensure the integrity of the financial every10 years: and and relevant financial experience.
The statements and their compliance with UK make recommendations to the Board Finance Director works closely with the company law and accounting regulation: for the appointment or reappointment Committee Chairman to facilitate open ensure the Annual Report and Accounts of the external auditor.
communication and regular information flow.
are fair, balanced and understandable and recommend their approval to the Board: Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Audit Manager investigates cases relating Corporate Governance Report continued to financial matters including fraud, the Company Secretary investigates other matters and monitors all open cases throughto their conclusion.
During the year, the Committee carried out areview of the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
A refresh of the whistleblowing service was carried out across the Group in May 2015.
ENGAGEMENT OF THE Audit Committee activities EXTERNAL AUDITOR The external Auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Group and Financial statements and reports Company financial statements.
The audit reviewed the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2015 Half Year Report and includes the review and testing of the data the trading updates issued in July 2015 and February 2016.
As part of these reviews contained in the financial statements to the the Committee received a report from the external Auditor on the auditof the Annual extent necessary for expressing an audit Report and Accounts: opinion on the truth and fairness of the reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls financial statements.
anddisclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts: reviewed the process and stress testing undertaken to support the Groups Viability Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor and Going Concern statements: ofthe Group since 2003 and a review of the considered acquisition valuation and accounting methodology: independence of Deloitte LLP is undertaken reviewed pension fund accounts: each year.
At the year end, the Auditor reviewed treasury policy: formally confirmed its independence and reviewed currency exposure and hedging policies: and thatobjectivity has been maintained.
Committee concluded that the relevant Risk management independence continues to be met.
In considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process toidentify, evaluate addition, the Senior Statutory Auditor and mitigate risks, the Groups changing risk profile and future risk reports: responsible for the Group audit is rotated devoted additional time to adequately address risk management and internal atleast every five years.
A new Senior controlinthe Group: and Statutory Auditor has been appointed considered export controls and other compliance-related matters.
Internal audit Deloitte LLP provides the Committee evaluated the effectiveness and the scope of work to be undertaken by the Internal withrelevant reports, reviews and advice Audit function: throughout the year, as set out in their reviewed management responses to audit reports issued duringthe year: termsof engagement.
reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures: and reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENDERING In accordance with UK Corporate External auditor and non-audit work Governance Code, the Committee considered the timing and process for the external Auditor tender: has primary responsibility for making reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology ofthe audit a recommendation to the Board on the andnon-audit work to be undertaken by the external Auditor: reappointment of the external Auditor and evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor: will lead the process for putting the audit agreed changes to the policy on non-audit services: and contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to theexternal Auditor In accordance with The Statutory Audit fortheaudit of the 2 April 2016 financialstatements.
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive The Committee receives regular updates on WHISTLEBLOWING Tender Processes and Audit Committee changes to financial accounting standards The Committee has responsibility for Responsibilities Order 2014 the 2014 Order, and reporting requirements, regulatory and ensuring that arrangements are in place for Halma is required to re-tender the external governance changes, the evolving landscape employees to raise concerns or suspicions audit contract by June 2023.
As reported around risk, fraud and cyber security.
they may have about possible wrongdoing last year, it is anticipated that the external infinancial reporting or other matters.
tender process will be completed before In its advisory capacity, the Committee An external organisation, Expolink, operates the end of December 2018.
Accordingly, the confirmed to the Board, that based on its a24hour confidential reporting service Committees current intention is to conduct review of the Annual Report and Accounts and forthe Group, which provides employees a competitive tender process in the financial internal controls that support the disclosures, with the choice of making a report via a year 2018 19.
The Committee believes that that the Annual Report and Accounts, multilingual telephone line or by web it is in the best interests of the Companys takenas a whole, are fair, balanced and reporting.
The service allows employees members to conduct a competitive tender understandable, and provide the necessary toremain anonymous subject to local ahead of the 2023 deadline and, due to the information for shareholders to assess the legislation and also provides a case reporting transitional arrangements, the change in Companys position and performance, its number which ensures that there is a Senior Statutory Auditor and Carole Cran business model and strategy.
mechanism for two-way communication being appointed as Committee Chairman between the reporter and the Company, even from July 2016, that concluding a tender by if they have chosen to remain anonymous.
December 2018 is also in the best interests Confidential reports from this service are of the Company.
The Committee confirms provided to the Company Secretary for that the Company was in compliance with investigation and to report any significant the provisions of the 2014 Order during the cases to the Committee.
The Internal financial year ended 2 April 2016.
70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The policy states that the Group will only use The survey completed by the first group is POLICY ON AUDITOR the appointed external auditor for non-audit divided between questions focusing on audit INDEPENDENCE AND SERVICES services in cases where these services do quality and client service.
As this group is Prohibited non-audit services not conflict with the auditors independence.
involved primarily in the execution phase of appraisal or valuation services: the audit, the responses cover practical audit financial information systems design The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP management issues as well as observations and implementation: remains best placed to advise the Group on made on the integrity and quality of audit bookkeeping services: matters related to tax compliance and the field teams.
As the second and third group management functions: structure of the Group.
The Committee interact mainly with the senior audit team and executive recruiting and resource services: accepts that certain work of a non-audit the Senior Statutory Auditor, the questions broker-dealer services: and nature is best undertaken by Deloitte, and are focused more on general audit planning legal services.
appointments are made taking into account and wider areas of the audit relationship.
factors including expertise and fees.
Audit-related services not subject In addition to assessing the effectiveness to separate tender if fees 150,000 The Committee regularly reviews the amount ofthe external Auditor, the Committee audits of businesses acquired or to be and nature of the non-audit work that Deloitte recognises that Group management has sold and due diligence services: performs.
The fee levels for non-audit animportant role to play in the overall opinions audit reports on information services are subject to an annual cap equal effectiveness of the external audit process provided by the Company upon to 70% of the average audit fees charged and the Auditor is therefore asked to request from a third party: over a three-year period.
conduct its own survey of both subsidiary advice on accounting policies: and head office companies with which electronic data processing audits: and At each meeting, the Committee receives Deloitte interacts.
This survey addresses tax services including local tax asummary of all fees, audit and non-audit, items suchas the timeliness, quality and compliance.
payable to the external Auditor.
reliability ofdata provided to the Auditor.
Permitted non-audit services, The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP for Taken together, the Committee believes subject to approval with requirement theyear ended 2 April 2016 were 957,000 that sufficient and appropriate information to tender if fees 150,000 2015: 803,000 and non-audit service is obtained to form an overall judgement due diligence services relating to fees were 290,000 2015: 172,000.
The on the effectiveness of the external audit acquisitions with fees in excess of principal non-audit service is tax advisory process.
The external audit effectiveness 150,000: related.
A summary of fees paid to the process findings from last years review public reporting on investment circulars: external Auditor is set out in note 6 to were incorporated into the audit processes liquidation services in respect of theAccounts on page 125. forthisyear, to maintain the process of redundant subsidiaries or associate continuous improvement.
companies: and The external Auditor has confirmed its tax-advisory fees in excess of 150,000 independence as Auditor of the Company, Taking into consideration the Auditors where the firms existing knowledge of ina letter addressed to the Directors.
confirmation that they remain independent the Group structure is preferred.
and the review of the effectiveness of the EXTERNAL AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS external audit, the Committee unanimously The effectiveness of the external audit recommended to the Board that a resolution AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE process is assessed by the Committee, for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as The Groups Policy on Auditor Independence which meets regularly throughout the year theCompanys independent Auditor be and Services provided by the External with the Senior Statutory Auditor and senior proposed to shareholders at the Annual Auditor sets out restrictions on the audit managers.
Key to the overall General Meeting in July 2016.
The Board categories of non-audit services which effectiveness of the process is the open hasaccepted and endorsed this theexternal auditor is allowed to provide approach adopted by the Group and the recommendation.
tothe Group, in order to safeguard auditor Auditor under which each party raises objectivity and independence.
A summary potential accounting and financial reporting RISK MANAGEMENT AND ofthe services provided by the auditor issues as and when they arise, rather than INTERNAL CONTROLS whichare permitted and prohibited under limiting this exchange to the period in which Through monitoring of the effectiveness of thepolicy, is set out above.
formal audit and review engagements take itsinternal controls and risk management place.
This approach is supported by a This policy is regularly reviewed and was processes, the Committee is able to formal annual survey process involving most recently reviewed and updated in maintaina good understanding of business subsidiary and Group management as January 2016.
Following that review, the performance and key areas of judgement well as Committee members and attendees.
threshold at which a tender process is anddecision-making within the Group.
required to determine whether the auditor Surveys are tailored and issued to three Details of risk management and internal isthe most suitable supplier of specific audit distinct groups of respondents: controls are set out on pages 28 and 29. related or non-audit services was increased from 100,000, which was set in 2005, to Subsidiary Finance Directors, including 150,000 reflecting the current size of the Group Finance: Group.
In addition, the level at which the Sector Chief Executives and Sector Committee are notified of all non-audit Finance Directors: and services carried out by the external auditor increased from fees between 50,000 and Committee members and attendees.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 the evidence supporting the going concern Corporate Governance Report continued basis of accounts preparation, the viability statement and the risk management and internal control disclosure requirements: the relative value of projects in development and completed projects comprising the capitalised development costs balance and the coverage of these values by expected future cash flows to test the assertion of management that no projects were at risk of impairment: and accounting assumptions and disclosures SIGNIFICANT ISSUES IN The Committees process for challenging of the defined benefit pension plans.
RELATION TOFINANCIAL theassumptions of management and FAIR, BALANCED AND REPORTING MATTERS IN 2016 addressing the risks identified includes UNDERSTANDABLE REPORT During the year, the Committee considered thefollowing activities: ANDACCOUNTS significant risks and issues in relation to the considering the appropriateness of One of the key governance requirements Groups financial statements and disclosures reviews conducted of acquisition purchase isfor the report and accounts to be fair, relating to: agreements against the related accounting balanced and understandable.
Ensuring the assessment of the carrying value of entries and fair value calculations for the that this standard is met requires continuous goodwill due to the significance of the acquired opening balances.
This involved assessment of the financial reporting issues amounts recorded on the Consolidated challenging, where required, assumptions affecting the Group on a year-round basis in Balance Sheet and the judgements and key judgements underpinning the addition to a number of focused exercises involved in assessing goodwill valuations, and benchmarking acquisitions: that take place during the Annual Report forimpairment: andAccounts production process.
assessing treatments of contingent the risk that acquisitions are not accounted consideration payment arrangements These focused exercises can be summarised for correctly in line with IFRS 3 Business against the requirements of IFRS 3 as follows: combinations including the recording of andIFRS 13: fair value adjustments and the identification focusing on, monitoring regularly and a qualitative review of disclosures and a and valuation of acquired intangible assets: constructively challenging, the review of internal consistency throughout the valuation of any contingent reasonableness of the assumptions the Annual Report and Accounts.
This consideration arising on acquisitions usedin impairment calculations by review assesses the Annual Report and incurrent and prior periods: management: challenging the Accounts against objective criteria drawn appropriateness of judgements and up for each component of the requirement the judgements involved in valuing defined forecasts used including discount rates, individual criteria that indicate fairness, benefit pension plans including the growth rates, the level of aggregation balance and understandability as discount rate, the mortality assumption ofindividual cash generating units and wellascriteria that overlap two or and the inflation rate: methodology applied, and any other morecomponents : the risk around capturing the capitalised associated disclosures in note 11 to a risk comparison review, which assesses development costs in relation to qualifying theAccounts: the consistency of the presentation of risks products as well as the subsequent assessing capitalisation of development and significant judgements throughout the impairment review based on predicted costs in line with the accounting policy main areas of risk disclosure in the Annual product launch and performance: and andstandards: Report and Accounts: ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts assessing the assumptions in determining a formal review of all Board and Committee are fair, balanced and understandable.
the pension obligations, particularly given meeting minutes by the Company market volatility and determining whether These issues were discussed with Secretary to ensure that all significant the key assumptions were reasonable.
management at various stages during issues are appropriately reflected and given These assumptions were also theyear and during the preparation and due prominence in narrative reporting: and benchmarked against other listed finalisation of the financial statements.
preparation and issue to the Audit companies and variances highlighted After reviewing the presentations and reports Committee of the key working papers forconsideration: and from management the Committee is satisfied and results for each of the significant that the financial statements appropriately considering the appropriateness and issues and judgements considered by address the critical judgements and key reasonableness of stated judgements the Audit Committee in the period.
estimates, both in respect of the amounts andconclusions and that reporting reported and the disclosures made.
The Directors statement on a fair, balanced Committee is also satisfied that the significant and understandable Annual Report and assumptions used for determining the As part of the above process the Committee Accounts is set out on page 68. value of assets and liabilities have been specifically considered thefollowing: appropriately scrutinised, challenged and On behalf of the Audit Committee the treatment and valuation of the aresufficiently robust.
The Committee has contingent consideration payable in discussed these issues with the Auditor relationto Value Added Solutions LLC during the audit planning process and at Jane Aikman and Visiometrics, S. L. : thefinalisation of the year end audit and is Chairman satisfied that its conclusions are in line review of the fair value of acquired 14 June 2016 withthose drawn by the Auditor in relation intangible assets: totheseissues.
composition of the cash generating unitsand related calculations: 72 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
