Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of governance, values and behaviours are consistently Dennis Millard Chairman applied throughout the Group.
Chairmans Introduction My primary role is to lead the Board and ensure that it works effectively and collaboratively to create sustainable, long-term shareholder value.
50 50 Good corporate governance is a key element of our business success.
The Board is therefore committed The Halfords Board to ensuring that high standards of governance, values and behaviours are consistently applied throughout represented equally the Group.
These elements are critical to business integrity and maintaining the trust of all stakeholders in Halfords.
by female and male As reported last year, Jill McDonald was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 11 May 2015.
In October members 2015 the Board welcomed the new Chief Financial Officer, Jonny Mason, following the resignation of Andrew Findlay.
Jonny joined the Company from Scandi Standard AB, a Scandinavian company, where he was CFO.
Prior to that he was CFO at Odeon and UCI Cinemas and Finance Director of Sainsburys Supermarkets.
He brings to the Board a broad range of financial experience across consumer facing and retail businesses.
Fast Fact The following Corporate Governance Report contains a summary of the Companys governance arrangements and the regulatory assurances required under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
Halfords is a I would encourage you to attend this years AGM where you can meet me and my Board colleagues.
Dennis Millard Top 100 Chairman 1 June 2016 Apprenticeship Statement of Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code Employer Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
The Board considers that throughout the period ended 1 April 2016, the Company has complied, without exception, with the provisions of the Code.
This report outlines how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Fast Fact figures relate to 4th April 2015 Code during the period under review.
- 1st April 2016 40 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information Board Composition and Succession THE BOARD As at the date of this report, the Board of Directors was made up of six members, comprising the NonKey matters reserved Recommendation and declaration Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and of dividends three Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of for Board approval the Board is as set out on page 38 and the biographies Approval of major capital Group strategy and risk of individual Directors, including any other business expenditure projects management commitments, are available on page 36 and also at www.
Approval of material contracts, Approval of the Groups Strategy halfordscompany.
and Business Plan Board membership and Each of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Approval of changes to capital committees Chairman is considered independent of management structure Appointment of Directors and free of any relationship that could materially interfere Approval of acquisitions or disposals with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Approval of the fees of the Approval of any decisions to cease The Chairman was considered independent upon his Non-Executive Directors to operate all or any material part of appointment.
The Board considers that each NonSetting of Board Committees the Groups business.
Executive Director brings their own senior level of Terms of Reference experience, gained within their field.
Approval of extension of activities Corporate governance into new businesses or geographical Succession planning for the Board is on-going and Undertaking formal performance areas the recent appointments of Jill McDonald and Jonny reviews of the Board, Committees Mason are noted.
Succession planning is also viewed Financial and internal controls and individual Directors at executive management level on an on-going basis.
Oversight of risk management and Determining the independence of internal control framework Board Responsibilities Directors Approval of budgets The Board is committed to ensuring that it provides Receiving reports on Group policies, leadership to the business as a whole, having regard Approval of financial statements such as health and safety, risk to the interests and views of its shareholders and and results announcements management strategy, the environment other stakeholders.
It is also responsible for setting and charitable and political donations Approval of shareholder the Groups strategy, values and standards.
Details communications, circulars and of the Groups business model and strategy can be Read more about the remit of each Notices of Meetings found on pages 10 to 20.
Committee on page 44 Approval of the Auditors The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer remuneration and terms of See Committee Terms are separate and clearly defined, with the division of engagement of Reference at www.
responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by the halfordscompany.
The definitions of the roles are available at: governance our-committees www.
How We Do Business is the internal name of The Directors together act in the best interests of the the formal delegated authorities document Company via the Board and its Committees, devoting approved by the Board.
It describes how ExECUTIvE sufficient time and consideration as necessary day-to-day decisions are delegated to the DIRECTORS to fulfil their duties.
Each Director brings different AND SENIOR Executive Directors, the Senior Management MANAGEMENT skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, Team and others within the business.
with the Non-Executive Directors additionally Each potential activity is set out by reference bringing independent thought and judgement.
This from whom approval must be sought and combination seeks to ensure that no individual or the process and documentation required to group unduly restricts or controls decision-making.
Where an activity is not expressly described within How We Do Business, approval must be sought from the Senior Management Team, who will apply the principles of How We Do Business to the decision.
The implementation of the document THE BUSINESS is constantly monitored, with updates proposed to the Board to reflect changing practices or structures.
Briefing sessions were held for all relevant Support Centre and Operating colleagues upon launch and are refreshed whenever the document is updated.
com 41 slugline DELEGATED AUTHORITIES Corporate Governance Report continued Board Responsibilities The key responsibilities of Board members are set out below: Role Main Responsibilities Chairman of the Board Leadership of the Board including its operation and governance Builds an effective and complementary Board Sets the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions Facilitates and encourages active engagement in meetings, promoting effective relationships and open communication Ensures effective communications with shareholders and other stakeholders Acts as an adviser to the CEO Group Chief Executive Develops the Group objectives and strategy for Board approval Creates and recommends to the Board an annual budget and three year financial plan Delivers the annual budget and plan and other objectives and executes the agreed Group strategy Identifies and executes new business opportunities and potential acquisitions or disposals Manages the Groups risk in line with the Board approved risk profile Senior Independent Supports the Chairman in his role Director Holds meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman at least once a year to appraise the Chairmans performance Acts as an intermediary for the other Directors or as a sounding board for the Chairman if required Available to other Directors and shareholders with concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal channels Non-Executive Evaluate and appraise the performance of Executive Directors and Senior Management against agreed targets Directors, including Participate in the development of the strategy of the Group the Chairman Monitor the financial information, risk management and controls processes of the Group to make sure that they are sufficiently robust Meet regularly with senior management Periodically visit Retail stores, Autocentres and distribution centres Meet together regularly without the Executive Directors present Formulate Executive Director remuneration and succession planning Company Secretary Works closely with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer and Board Committee Chairmen in setting the rolling calendar of agenda items for the meetings of the Board and its Committees Ensures accurate, timely and appropriate information flows within the Board, the Committees and between the Directors and senior management Provides advice on Board matters, legal and regulatory issues, corporate governance, Listing Rules compliance for example against the Listing Rules, and best practice A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is in place and regularly reviewed.
com investors governance  To discharge these responsibilities effectively, the Board has additionally implemented a system of delegated authorities, which is described on page 41.
This enables the effective day-to-day operation of the business and ensures that significant matters are brought to the attention of management and the Board as appropriate.
It is through this system that the Board is able to provide oversight and direction to the Executive Directors, the Senior Management Team and the wider business.
Matters Reserved for the Board include: Authority: Strategy and Management: Structure and Capital: Investor Relations: Audit, Financial Reporting and Controls: Nominations to the Board: Executive Remuneration and Significant Contracts.
42 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information Board Meetings and Attendance Remuneration Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Board Member Scheduled: 12 Scheduled: 3 Scheduled: 8 Scheduled: 3 Executive Directors Jill McDonald 10 10 n a n a 3 3 Jonny Mason 5 5 n a n a n a Matt Davies 1 1 n a n a 0 0 7 7 Andrew Findlay n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Dennis Millard 12 12 n a 8 8 3 3 David Adams 12 12 3 3 8 8 3 3 Claudia Arney 12 12 3 3 8 8 3 3 11 12 3 3 7 8 3 3 Helen Jones Number of meetings attended by the individual Number of meetings available to the individual The table above shows the attendance of Directors at the meetings Following each meeting of a Committee, the Committee Chairman of the Board and of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration reports to the Board.
Whilst not entitled to attend, other Directors, Committees during the year ended 1 April 2016.
Where a Director professional advisers and members of senior management attend did not attend meetings owing to prior commitments or other when invited to do so.
The Auditor attends Audit Committee meetings unavoidable circumstances, they provided input to the Chairman so by invitation.
No person is present at Nomination Committee or that their views were known.
There was one Board meeting during the Remuneration Committee during discussions pertinent to them.
period where a CEO was not in post.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to each Committee.
Other members of the Senior Management Team and advisors A Disclosure Committee, made up of a minimum of two Directors, attended Board meetings by invitation as appropriate throughout the approves the final wording of market announcements prior to release.
The Board also held a two-day Strategy meeting during There were five Disclosure Committees during the period.
The day-to-day investment decisions of the Group are approved by At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer delivers a high an Investment Committee, chaired by the CFO.
Similarly the treasury level update on business, the Board considers specific reports, needs of the Group are managed by the Treasury Committee, chaired reviews business and financial performance, key initiatives, risks and by the CFO, the other members are senior members of the finance governance.
In addition, throughout the year the Senior Management and treasury teams.
Team and other colleagues deliver presentations to the Board on The Board may establish other ad hoc committees of the Board to proposed initiatives and progress on projects.
consider specific issues from time to time.
No such committees were formed during the year.
Board Committees The Boards principal Committees are the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
In December 2015, the Board established a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, comprising of directors and senior management and chaired by a Non-Executive Director.
Each Committee has its terms of reference approved and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The terms of reference for the Committees are available on www.
On the following pages each Committee Chairman reports how the Committee he she chairs discharged its responsibilities in FY16 and the material matters that were considered.
com 43 slugline Corporate Governance Report continued Halfords Board The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group, setting the strategic direction and ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
See page 41 for examples of Matters Reserved for the Board.
A complete list is available on the companys website www.
com Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Key Objectives: Key Objectives: Key Objectives: To ensure that the Board has the To provide effective governance To ensure that a Board policy exists skills, knowledge and experience over the Groups financial reporting for the remuneration of the CEO, the to be effective in discharging its processes including the internal audit Chairman, other Executive Directors responsibilities and to have oversight function and external Auditor and and members of the executive of all governance matters to maintain oversight of the Groups management.
systems of internal control and risk Main Responsibilities Main Responsibilities management activities Making appropriate recommendations The Remunerations Committees to maintain the balance of skills and Main Responsibilities responsibilities include: experience of the Board by considering: The Audit Committees responsibilities recommending to the Board the total include: the size, structure and composition of individual remuneration package of the Board: making recommendations to the Executive Directors and members of Board on the appointment removal the executive management: senior management succession plans: of the external Auditor, the terms of and recommending the design of the engagement and fees: company share incentive plans to retirements and appointments of reviewing and monitoring the the Board, approving any awards additional and replacement Directors.
integrity of the Companys financial to Executive Directors and other statements, including its annual and executive managers under those More information on Diversity in interim reports and preliminary results plans and defining any performance the Group can be found on pages 46 and 51 announcements and any other formal conditions attached to those awards: announcement relating to its financial Read more within the Nomination determining the Chairmans fee, performance, and then recommending Committee Report on page 48 following a proposal from the CEO: the same to the Board: and assisting the Board in achieving its maintaining an active dialogue with obligations under the Code in areas of institutional investors and shareholder risk management and internal control: representatives and Read more within the focusing particularly on compliance Remuneration Committee Report with legal requirements, accounting on page 58 standards and the Listing Rules.
Read more within the Audit Committee Report on page 54 Chair: Members: Chair: Members: Chair: Members: Dennis Millard David Adams David Adams Claudia Arney Claudia Arney David Adams Claudia Arney Helen Jones Dennis Millard Helen Jones Helen Jones Jill McDonald The Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary 44 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information considered independent on his appointment.
In compliance with the Concerns requirements of the Code for at least half of the Board, excluding the The Chairman seeks to resolve any concerns raised by the Board, Chairman, to be independent, the Company confirms that 60% of its whether raised in a Board meeting or in another forum.
Where raised Board are independent.
and unresolved in a Board meeting, the unresolved business can be recorded on behalf of a Director in the minutes of the relevant The independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of meeting.
A resigning Non-Executive Director would also be able to experience and expertise to the Groups affairs and carry significant raise any concerns in a written letter to the Chairman, who would weight in the Boards decisions.
The independent Non-Executive bring such concerns to the attention of the Board.
No such concerns Directors are encouraged to challenge management and help have been raised throughout the period.
Effectiveness Independence The Board considers David Adams, Claudia Arney and Helen Jones to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The Chairman, Dennis Millard, was Skills and Experience of the Board Delivering the journey The below graphic illustrates the number of Directors on the Board who have the relevant skills and experience.
Leadership 6 Corporate 5 Strategy 6 Banking 4 Cross-functional 4 Governance Finance M & A 6 4 4 Supply Chain 4 Digital 4 Brand building Retail 6 6 Brand development Customer service 6 6 Marketing 5 Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
Represents the Board at the close of the period.
com 45 slugline s g n i t e e M A i m s s t i s i v e t i S A s s i Corporate Governance Report continued 12 October 2015 as Chief Financial Officer.
Jonny was formerly CFO Balance of Non-Executive Directors: of Scandi Standard AB, a Scandinavian company, and was previously Executive Directors CFO of Odeon and UCI Cinemas and Finance Director of Sainsburys Supermarkets.
Jonny brings a broad range of financial experience Chairman 01 across consumer facing and retail businesses.
Succession planning is Executive Directors 02 not, however, confined to the Board itself and the Board pays a close Non-Executive Directors 03 interest in identifying and cultivating leaders of the future from within the business.
On 18 January 2016, Tim OGorman was appointed as Company Secretary following the resignation of Justin Richards on 31 December 2015.
Directors Induction All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their individual requirements, to include briefings on the activities of the Group and visits to operational sites.
They also meet Male:Female Length of tenure all of the Companys other Directors and Senior Executives.
This 03 years: 3 facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of 37 years: 3 3:3 the business performance.
Both Jill McDonald and Jonny Mason undertook a full induction programme prepared by the Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
Upon joining they were Diversity both provided with background materials covering the operational The Board has a Diversity Policy and in applying this to the Board and organisational structure of the business, as well as the strategic also considers that it is the background and experience brought to aims and key initiatives of the Company.
the Board by each individual that best secures and demonstrates its diversity and commitment to its Diversity Policy.
The principle Training and Development that candidates are considered on merit and against objective All current Directors have various opportunities for on-going criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, development and support via: including gender is established in the Terms of Reference of the a programme of Support Centre, distribution centre, Retail store Nomination Committee.
and Autocentre visits: No fixed quota is applied to decisions regarding recruitment, rather reviews with the Chairman to identify any training and development the Nomination Committee considers capability and capacity to needs: commit the necessary time to the role in its recommendations to the advice on governance, relevant legislative changes affecting the Board.
The intention is the appointment of the most suitably qualified business or their duties as Directors from the Company Secretary: candidate to complement and balance the current skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, seeking to appoint those who will access to independent professional advice at the Companys be best able to help lead the Company in its long-term strategy.
At expense: and Halfords 50% of the Board is female.
The chart below demonstrate membership of the Deloitte Academy, a training and guidance the gender split at Board level, within senior management and across resource for boards and directors.
BOARD LEVEL 50% Female 50% Male SENIOR MANAGEMENT LEVEL 31% Female 69% Male ALL COLLEAGUES 22% Female 78% Male Directors Induction The Board is well placed by the mixture of skills, experience and knowledge of its Directors to act in the best interests of the Company Training and its shareholders.
Appointments to the Board As reported last year, Jill McDonald was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 11 May 2015.
On 1 October 2015, Andrew Findlay, Group Chief Financial Officer resigned after four and a half years on the Board.
As reported in the Nomination Committees report, a thorough search was conducted to identify suitable candidates, both internally and externally to succeed him in this role.
Upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, Jonny Mason joined the Board on 46 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline s t a n c s e g n e i r B S t r u c t u r s e e v i t a i t i n I strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards policy on internal Evaluation control is implemented by management through a clearly defined The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of operating structure with lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and that this process is facilitated externally at least every third year.
This year the An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the evaluation process was carried out internally, having been externally significant risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness facilitated last year by Linstock.
of related controls has been established by the Board to ensure an This years evaluation required each Director to respond to a acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
The process has been in place throughout the period ended 1 April 2016, and up to the questionnaire devised by the Company Secretary and agreed with the Chairman.
The process considered the Boards composition, date of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
strengths and weaknesses, its range and balance of skills, Our process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant experience, independence and knowledge of the Company, its risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness of related diversity including gender diversity, how the Board works together as controls routinely identifies areas for improvement, but the Board has a unit, risk management, succession planning and any training issues.
neither identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses that it has determined to be material or significant.
Following this review, the Chairman has considered the results of the performance evaluation and has taken steps to address any The Board considered its appetite for risk in relation to the top 8 risks, weaknesses.
The Board will continue to take proactive steps to determining that the risks and mitigating actions were appropriate to address recommended improvements.
the level of risk that was both acceptable to, and incumbent within, a listed business.
More information on the Companys key risks and The two most significant actions to be taken as a result of the uncertainties is shown on pages 30 to 33. assessment are set out below: additional time with the other Non-Executive Directors and the Relations with Shareholders Chairman: and The Board is committed to effective communications between the Company and its shareholders and, accordingly, has a strong Investor additional Company specific training.
Relations programme that seeks to actively engage with shareholders.
Re-election This programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim In compliance with the Code and the Companys Articles of results.
These presentations, along with the Annual Report and Association, all Directors on the Board as at 6 June 2016, will seek Accounts, are the primary means of communication during the year with re-election at the Companys AGM.
Jonny Mason will seek election all of the Companys shareholders.
Additionally, the Chairman, the Chief for the first time.
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have met with analysts Directors and their Other Interests and institutional shareholders during the period to keep them informed Each Director is required to notify the Company of any situation in of significant developments and help maintain a balanced understanding which he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that of their issues and concerns.
Their views and feedback, as well as market conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company perceptions gathered, are regularly communicated to the Board via a a situational conflict.
None was notified during the period.
monthly report by the Investor Relations Officer.
The Company Secretary also brings to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the Company raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
Secretary should any possible situational conflict arise, so that prior consideration can be given by the Board as to whether or not such The primary method of communication with shareholders is by conflict will be approved.
electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally friendly.
Information available on the Companys website includes current Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests and historic copies of the Annual Report and Accounts, full and half-year of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of financial statements, market announcements, corporate governance the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are information, the Terms of Reference for the Audit, Nomination and shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 72.
Remuneration Committees and the Matters Reserved for the Board.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the opportunity Overall responsibility for the system of internal control and reviewing to communicate directly with the Board and their participation is its effectiveness rests with the Board.
This involves ensuring that there welcomed.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit is a process to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks that Committees will be present at the AGM and will be in a position to may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
answer questions relevant to the work of those Committees.
It is The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each systems of internal control during the year, under the auspices of the substantial issue at the AGM.
The Chairman will advise shareholders Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting By order of the Board affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the Tim OGorman Group are being managed.
For further information on the Companys Company Secretary compliance with the Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee 1 June 2016 and Auditor please refer to pages 54 to 57.
The risk management and internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance stock code: HFd halfords.
