INTERNAL CONTROLS Audit Committee Report The Board is responsible for the Companys The Audit Committee consists of Mr. Keith systems of risk management and internal conCorbin Chairman, Mr. Andrew Moore and trol.
The Audit Committee reviews the effecMr.
Mr Jean-Bernard Schmidt tiveness of such systems, on at least an annual was a member of the Committee until basis, and reports its findings to the Board.
In the year under review Audit Committee reviewed the Boards processthe Audit Committee examined the effectiveness es for evaluating risk to ensure that the systems of the Companys internal control systems, covered all the potential risks facing the Comthe annual and interim reports and financial pany and confirmed to the Board that the risk statements, the auditors remuneration review was both thorough and rigorous and the and engagement, as well as the auditors Companys risk management and internal conindependence and any non-audit services trol systems were effective.
The Board confirms provided by them.
that there is an ongoing process for identifying, The Audit Committee ensured that the Companys evaluating, monitoring and managing the signifcontracts of engagement with the Investment icant risks faced by the Company.
This process Manager, Secretary, and other service providers has been in place for the year under review and were operating satisfactorily so as to ensure up to the date of approval of this Annual Report the safe and accurate management and and Audited Consolidated Financial Statements, administration of the Companys affairs and and is reviewed by the Board.
business and are competitive and reasonable The internal control systems are designed to for the shareholders.
meet the Companys particular needs and the Additionally, the Audit Committee is responsible risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the for making appropriate recommendations to internal control systems are designed to manthe Board and ensuring that the Company age rather than eliminate the risk of failure to complies to the best of its ability with applicable achieve business objectives and by their nature laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet can only provide reasonable and not absolute of generally-accepted codes of conduct.
assurance against misstatement and loss.
HarbourVest the Investment Manager of the The Audit Committee receives information Companys investments underlying Harbourfrom the Secretarys compliance department Vest funds has received its most recent report and the external auditor.
on controls placed in operation, a Type II SOC I In the financial year ended 31 January 2016, Report - Private Equity Fund Administration the Audit Committee met four times.
Report on Controls Placed in Operation and Below is a summary of the director attendance Tests of Operating Effectiveness for the period at the committee meetings held in the financial from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 year, compared against those for which they from its auditors.
This report has been provided were eligible: to the Audit Committee.
The Company does not have an internal audit Audit Committee Meetings department.
All of the Companys management Mr. Keith Corbin 4 4 and administration functions are delegated Mr. Jean-Bernard Schmidt 2 4 to independent third parties or the Investment Mr. Andrew Moore 4 4 Manager and it is therefore felt there is no Mr. Alan Hodson 3 4 need for the Company to have an internal The terms of reference of the Audit Committee audit facility.
However, this matter will be are available on the Companys website and reviewed annually.
from the Company Secretary on request.
