HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENT The Directors confirm that the Group Code have been applied is set out in this STATEMENT OF complied with all of the provisions of the Corporate Governance statement and in the COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK Code throughout the year ended 30 June Directors Remuneration Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2016 and confirm that the Board believes CODE the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Companys auditor, PwC, is required for 2016 taken as a whole, are fair, balanced, to review whether the above statement understandable and provide the information reflects the Companys compliance with the The Code sets out the standards of good necessary for shareholders to assess position provisions of the Code specified for its review practice in relation to how a company should and our performance, business model and by the Listing Rules and to report if it does be directed and governed.
not reflect such compliance: no such report published by the Financial Reporting Council has been made.
FRC and further information can be found Further explanation of how the main on its website at frc.
principles and supporting principles of the OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AS AT 30 JUNE 2016 Independent External Auditors Appoint the auditors Shareholders Elect the board Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and Four independent Non-Executive Directors Executive Committee Board Committees Executive Committees Audit Committee Board Risk Executive Risk Investment Committee Committee Committee Senior Management Nomination Remuneration Treasury CASS Oversight Team Committee Committee Committee Committee The Group operates within a clear governance delegated to the Board Committees to assist Governance framework, but are not formally framework.
The Groups internal control and the Board in carrying out its functions and appointed committees of the Board.
These risk management framework is discussed to ensure independent oversight of internal committees feed back to the main Board and in the Managing our risks section on page control and risk management.
Other nonBoard Committees via their Chairman or an 33.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are board committees form part of the Corporate Executive Director where appropriate.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 53 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LEADERSHIP BOARD STRUCTURE The Non-Executive Directors are independent ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is made up of the Chairman, of management and are considered by the Executive Directors, including the Chief Board to be free from any business or other The Board is collectively responsible for enExecutive Officer, and independent Nonrelationships, which could compromise their suring leadership through effective oversight Executive Directors.
The roles of the independence.
Their role is to effectively advise and constructively challenge and review.
The Board has overall responsibilChairman and Chief Executive are clearly management, along with monitoring ity for the management and performance of defined, separate and approved by the Board.
managements success in delivering the the Group.
It sets the strategic direction of the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and Group, monitors performance, determines the control framework set by the Board.
They are appropriate risk appetite, and ensures that CHAIRMAN also responsible for determining appropriate sufficient resources in talent and capital are in levels of remuneration for the Executive place to achieve the objectives and ensures The Chairman is responsible for the Directors.
solid succession planning for senior manoperation, leadership and governance of agement.
It ensures that risk, regulatory and the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and compliance management within the Group setting its agenda.
In conjunction with the SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR is effective.
The Board reviews performance, Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the including that of the senior management and Chairman plans agenda items and timings for The Senior Independent Non-Executive senior executives.
The Board is also responBoard meetings.
The Chairman ensures that Directors role is to provide a sounding board sible for engaging with shareholders.
It is the the membership of the Board is appropriate for the Chairman and support him in the decision-making body for all other matters to the needs of the business and that Board delivery of his objectives.
He serves as a deemed material to the Group in strategic, Committees carry out their duties, including trusted intermediary for the other Directors financial and reputational terms.
reporting back to the Board.
The Chairman is when necessary and is also available to also responsible for ensuring there is effective shareholders if they have concerns which There is a documented schedule of matters communication with shareholders and other communication via the normal channels of which are reserved for Board decision and stakeholders, and that the rest of the Board is Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other approval.
These matters are significant to aware of and maintains an understanding of Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or the Group as a whole due to their strategic, their views.
The Chairman works closely with when shareholders prefer to speak directly financial or reputational implications, and the Chief Executive Officer to ensure that the to him.
He is responsible for evaluating the include, but are not limited to, the agreement strategies and actions agreed by the Board performance of the Chairman on behalf of the of strategies, recommendation of dividends, are effectively implemented.
approval of acquisitions and major capital expenditure.
In addition, it is only the Board which can appoint and remove Directors and CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPANY SECRETARY our Company Secretary.
The Board also has overall responsibility for the Groups system The Chief Executive has executive The Company Secretary supports and of internal controls and risk management responsibilities for the operations, results works closely with the Chairman, the Chief as explained in the Managing Our Risks and day to day management of the Group.
Executive Officer and the Board Committee section.
He also recommends strategic developments Chairmen in setting agenda items for to the Board for consideration.
He is then meetings of the Board and its committees.
Except for the schedule of matters reserved responsible for the delivery of the strategy The Company Secretary is responsible to for decision by the Board, the Board has and leads the executive management the Board for ensuring Board procedures are delegated the day-to-day management of team.
The Board has delegated these followed, applicable rules and regulations are the Group to the Chief Executive who is responsibilities to him, and he is accountable complied with and that the Board is advised supported by the Executive Committee and to the Board.
on governance and relevant regulatory senior management.
The Chief Executive and matters.
In addition, the Company Secretary Executive Directors of the Group are responsupports the Chairman in the design and sible to the Board for developing strategy and CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER the profitability and overall performance of delivery of Non-Executive Director Induction the Group.
All Directors have access to the The Chief Financial Officer supports the Chief services of the Company Secretary.
Executive Officer in implementing the Groups strategy and in the operational performance of the business.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ATTENDANCE AT THE BOARD MEETINGS HOW THE BOARD OPERATES The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director during the year is set out below.
The Board meets at least four times each financial year and met nine times in the last financial year.
The Board also meets with Meetings eligible Meetings the Executive Directors at a regular off-site to attend attended Strategy Day to review strategic options open to the Group in the context of the economic, Chairman regulatory and competitive environment and Mike Evans 9 9 to set the strategic objectives.
There were two such meetings in the year.
Between Board Independent Non-Executive Directors meetings, Directors are also provided with monthly information packs which include Chris Barling 9 8 detailed commentary and analysis.
To ensure that Directors are as fully informed as possible, Shirley Garrood 9 9 minutes are circulated from each Committee, Stephen Robertson 9 7 including the Executive Committee, and each Board meeting includes a report from the Jayne Styles 6 5 Committee Chairmen as appropriate.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet in Dharmash Mistry 2 2 the absence of the Executive Directors at least once a year.
There were two such meetings in Executive Directors the year.
Ian Gorham 9 9 Each Director committed an appropriate amount Christopher Hill 4 4 of time to their duties during the financial year, and the Non-Executive Directors met or exceeded the time commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Board meeting agendas during the year included business across the key areas n 22% Strategy & business initiatives of strategy, governance, risk and financial performance.
In addition to regular reviews n 16% Regulation of performance, the Board discussed the n 17% Reports from the Committees strategic direction of the Company: a number of business indicatives: regulatory impact and n 12% Finance, including CASS and changes affecting the business: competition Treasury and the business outlook.
n 11% Competition and business outlook BOARD COMMITTEES n 10% Board matters, including dividends and annual reporting The Board is authorised to manage the n 5% People business of the Company in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The n 4% Investor relations Articles of Association may be amended n 4% Board effectiveness by special resolution of shareholders.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to Committees to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 55 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Responsible for: Overseeing the integrity of the Groups Responsible for: The Groups overall risk appetite, risk financial reporting.
Reviews and recommends to the Board: The effectiviness Reviews and recommends to the Board: On the current of the Groups internal controls and internal audit function.
risk exposures of the company.
Advises on the amount of The performance and independence of the external auditors surplus regulatory capital that should be held commensurate as well as being responsible for their appointment, with the Groups risk profile and regulatory obligations and re-appointment and removal.
effectiveness of the risk management systems.
BOARD COMMITTEES NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Responsible for: The structure, size and composition of the Responsible for: Setting the remuneration policy including Board, including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
pension rights and any compensation payments for all executive directors.
Reviews and recommends to the Board: Concerning the composition and skills of the Board including proposed Reviews and recommends to the Board: The level and appointees.
Leads the process for Board appointments, structure of remuneration for senior management of the Group, re-election and succession of the directors and the taking into account relevant legal and regulatory requirements, Chairman.
Reviews the leadership and development needs the provisions and recommendations of the Code, FCA of the organisation.
Remuneration Codes, AIFMD, CRD IV and associated guidance.
independent oversight of internal control website www.
matters which are reserved for decision by and risk management.
The four principal A summary of the terms of reference for the full Board only.
In particular, the Executive Board Committees Audit, Remuneration, each committee is included in the committee Committee is responsible to the Chief Risk and Nomination play an essential summaries below.
A report from each Executive for developing and monitoring every role in supporting the Board in fulfilling committee on their activities for the year aspect of the Groups business on a continuing its responsibilities.
The Chairman of each follows this section.
basis, for developing and implementing Committee reports to the Board after business strategy as agreed by the Board and ensuring that day-to-day operations are each meeting.
The minutes of each Board conducted in accordance with the relevant Committee meeting are circulated to the OTHER COMMITTEES regulatory and statutory requirements.
Executive Committee meets at least quarterly These committees form part of the Corporate but more frequently when required, and met The Board Committees all have formal terms Governance framework, but are not formally five times during the current financial year.
The of reference that have been approved by the appointed Non-Executive committees of attendance by each member is set out in the Board, and performance of the Committees the Board.
The main Committees are the table on page 56. is assessed annually by the Board.
Each Executive Committee, the Investment Committees terms of reference sets out Committee, Executive Risk Committee, the The Executive Committee is chaired by the specific matters for which delegated CASS Oversight Committee and the Treasury the Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in his authority has been given by the Board.
Committee: absence by Christopher Hill.
During the year These terms of reference are reviewed the committee comprised the following annually and the terms of reference of the Executive Committee members: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Risk The Board has delegated full authority to Committee are available on the Groups the Executive Committee subject to a list of HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The Executive Movements in the year Meetings Meetings Committee eligible to attended attend Ian Gorham Chief Executive Officer 6 6 Christopher Hill Chief Financial Officer Appointed 4th February 2016 2 2 Ian Hunter Commercial Director 6 6 Vikki Williams Chief Operating Officer Resigned 3rd February 2016 4 4 David Davies Chief Information Officer 6 5 Mark Dampier Research Director Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 3 Lee Gardhouse Chief Investment Officer Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 5 Stuart Louden Group Director of Savings Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 6 Rob Byett Group Director of Risk and Compliance Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 5 Chris Worle Digital Strategy Director Appointed to the Executive Committee 1st July 2015 6 6 Nick Marson Operations Director Resigned 31st October 2015 1 1 Mike Evans, Heather Cooper Chief People Officer and Judy Matthews General Counsel and Company Secretary are invited to attend the Executive Committee.
Biographies of the above are available on our website: www.
Financial Conduct Authority FCAs client Investment Committee Executive Risk Committee assets operational oversight function.
The The Investment Committee is responsible for The Executive Risk Committee is an committee meets monthly and receives monitoring the investments held within the executive committee seeking to ensure reports from a number of operational and HL Multi-Manager funds.
It is also responsible risks are identified, assessed, managed control functions, enabling it to monitor the for ensuring that there are no conflicts of and reported on, it is also responsible for effectiveness of our processes and controls.
interest between the HL Multi-Manager overseeing compliance with the capital funds and clients investing with the Group requirements under the ICAAP regime.
The Treasury Committee on an execution only basis.
The Investment Committee meets monthly and is chaired by The Treasury Committee is chaired by the Committee meets at least four times a year the Group Director of Risk and Compliance.
Its role is to define and met five times during this year.
From 1 The Committee covers all areas of risk and oversee the management of client July 2015, the activities of the Investment management and agrees the position against and Hargreaves Lansdowns own cash Committee have been formally reported to the Risk Appetite based on the information balances within the regulatory framework the PLC Board by the committee Chairman, provided in the risk dashboard.
Throughout and companys risk appetite.
The Committee and the committee has been chaired by the year papers are requested on specific meets at least quarterly, with detailed an independent Non-Executive Director risks and topics.
monthly reporting enabling clear and effective Jayne Styles since 23rd October 2015. oversight of all facets of cash activities, Since the end of the financial year the CASS Oversight Committee including liquidity, counterparty exposure and Board has decided that the Investment The CASS Oversight Committee is chaired performance.
Committee will become a full committee by the Chief Financial Officer, who is responsible for overseeing our processes of the Board alongside the Audit, and controls over segregating client monies Remuneration, Risk and Nomination and safeguarding custody assets.
The Committees and its terms of reference committees role is to support him as the have been updated to reflect this.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 57 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Details on our Board members, including EFFECTIVENESS other Directorships, are on page 50 to 51.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they may have interests BOARD COMPOSITION that conflict with those of the Group, unless DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
As at 30 June 2016 there were seven Directors Directors are required to disclose both the on the Board: the Chairman, four independent The Group is fully compliant with the Code, nature and extent of any potential conflict or Non-Executive Directors, and two Executive which requires that at least half of the Board, actual conflicts with the interests of the Group.
The size and composition of the excluding the Chairman, should comprise NonBoard is regularly reviewed by the Board and Executive Directors who are determined by In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Nominations Committee to ensure that the Board to be independent.
The Code sets the Companys articles of association allow the there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills out the circumstances that should be relevant Board to authorise potential conflicts that may and experience.
to the Board in determining whether each arise, and to impose such conditions or limitaNon-Executive Director is independent and tions as it sees fit.
During the year, any potenthe Board has given due regard to provision tial conflicts were considered and assessed by INDUSTRY BACKGROUND AND B.
The Board has considered the Board and approved where appropriate.
EXPERIENCE factors such as the length of tenure and relationships or circumstances which are likely There is an appropriate combination of to affect or appear to affect the Directors SUCCESSION PLANNING AND Executive Directors and Non-Executive judgement in determining whether they APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD Directors such that no individual or small remain independent.
This review is conducted group of individuals can dominate the Boards annually.
The Board uses succession planning to ensure decision making.
that Executives with the necessary skills, The Board has concluded that Stephen knowledge and expertise are in place to deliver There were the following changes in Board Robertson, Christopher Barling, Shirley Garrood and Jayne Styles remained the Groups strategy, and that it has the right composition during the year: independent in character and judgement balance of individuals to be able to discharge Dharmash Mistry resigned from the Board throughout the financial year and are free from their responsibilities.
The Board regularly as Non-Executive Director on 31 August any business or other relationships which reviews its composition to enable it to 2015, could materially affect the exercise of their maintain its balance of skills and experience.
Jayne Styles joined the Board as Nonjudgement.
Mike Evans was independent on Any searches for Board candidates, and Executive Director on 23 October 2015 appointment as Chairman.
Christopher Barling appointments made, are based upon merit Christopher Hill joined the Board as Chief is currently the Senior Independent Nonagainst objective criteria.
Financial Officer on 4 February 2016 Executive Director.
Simon Cleveland, a partner in Deloitte LLP, The Nomination Committee has specific was contracted as Interim CFO prior to the responsibility for the appointment of Nonappointment of Christopher Hill.
Simon Executive and Executive Directors and it Cleveland did not serve on the Board of recommends new appointments to the Directors.
Experience Number of Directors Executive and Non-Executive and Non-Executive Chairman Company knowledge 7 Industry knowledge 7 Audit and Risk management 5 Investment management 4 Strategy and Business development 5 Operational management 5 Technology and Digital focus 4 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Board.
It regularly reviews the structure, opportunities are provided through internal size and composition required of the Board meetings, presentations and briefings by COMPOSITION OF THE EXECUTIVE and makes recommendations to the Board external advisors.
AND INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE as appropriate.
More information on the DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD work of the Committee can be found in the Nomination Committee report on pages 84 INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD to 85.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties effectively.
As explained on page 53, the Company Secretary works closely INDUCTION with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Board Committee Chairmen to ensure Our Chairman, with support from the that appropriate and timely information flows Company Secretary, is responsible for within and to the Board and its committees, preparing and implementing a personalised enabling the Board to exercise its judgement induction programme for all new Directors, and make fully informed decisions when to include guidance as to their duties, discharging its duties.
responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company.
We believe that the best way The Company Secretary supports the n 1 Independent Nonto learn about a business is to spend time Chairman in setting the Board agenda, and Executive Chairman within it, and we encourage new Directors papers are distributed to all Directors in n 2 Executive Directors to spend time with our senior managers and advance of Board meetings via a secure executives in a number of business areas and electronic system.
Directors receive financial n 4 Independent Nonto receive demonstrations of key operations information on the Group on a monthly basis Executive Directors and systems where relevant.
and receive briefings from the Chief Executive Officer in between meetings as required.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS ONGOING PROFESSIONAL LENGTH OF TENURE OF INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT The Code requires that all Directors of DIRECTORS & CHAIRMAN FTSE 350 companies should be subject to Every Director has access to appropriate annual election by shareholders.
Under the training throughout their appointment existing Articles of Association all Directors as Director and we regularly assess the have to submit themselves for re-election requirement for Director training as part of annually if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be each Directors annual appraisal.
All Directors wish to be re-elected and the Board confirms that all individual Our overall objective is to maintain and performance reviews demonstrated that the enhance professional standards for all our Directors continue to demonstrate effective employees.
We believe that these standards performance and commitment to their roles.
are particularly important for all staff who fall under the scope of the FCA Training and n 2 0-3 years Competence rules.
All staff under the scope BOARD EVALUATION of these rules are required to perform certain n 2 3-6 years training annually.
n 0 6-9 years The Code and the Financial Reporting n 2 0-3 years Councils guidance on Board effectiveness Given the rapidly changing environment n 1 9- n 2 3-6 years recommend that the annual performance in which the Group operates, all Directors review of the Board should be externally are given regular updates on changes and n 0 6-9 years facilitated every three years.
Independent developments in the business.
The Board n 1 9-12 years Audit Limited were engaged by the Board is regularly updated on relevant legislative, to perform this external review in 2015 and, regulatory or governance changes.
Training HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 59 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS to meet shareholders at our AGM and following this, the Board has made good they value the opportunity of welcoming progress against its agreed actions.
The Board recognises the importance of individual shareholders and other investors maintaining good communication with to communicate directly and address their There has been an increase in the frequency the Companys shareholders and has questions.
of Board meetings and the time allotted for a programme of communication with the formal Board cycle, the introduction of a shareholders based on the financial reporting The Company sends the Annual Report rolling twelve month agenda, and an increase calendar which includes the interim and and notice of the AGM to shareholders, in the engagement of the Non-Executive annual reports, trading updates, the Annual or makes them available on the Groups Directors with management outside of Board General Meeting AGM and the Investor website, at least 20 days before the date of meetings.
A mid-year internal review carried Relations section of the corporate website the meeting.
The Notice of AGM sets out a out by Internal Audit supported this view that at www.
Our Annual Report is an clear explanation of each separate resolution good progress is being made.
important medium for communicating with on each discrete subject.
Resolutions are shareholders, setting out detailed reviews passed on a show of hands, and proxy The Chairman carried out this years review of the business and its future developments votes for, against and withheld for each of the Boards effectiveness and presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief resolution are displayed at the meeting.
his draft report to the Board in June 2016.
Executive Officers review and the Strategic Where the resolutions were to appoint or After discussion, the finalised report was Report.
re-appoint Directors, the votes were shown approved by the Board in August 2016.
The with and without the votes of the controlling review was performed by way of one-toIn addition to this, the Chief Executive and shareholder Peter Hargreaves.
There is a one discussions with each Director and the Chief Financial Officer meet with institutional Relationship Agreement in place between Company Secretary.
The key theme emerging investors after results announcements, upon Peter Hargreaves and the Company to ensure from the review was that whilst good request or on an ad hoc basis during the year.
that the independence provisions as set progress had continued to be made against They, together with the Company Secretary out in the Listing Rules are complied with.
the agreed actions from the previous year, and Head of Investor Relations, also provide The terms of the agreement have been fully there remained work to be done to ensure a point of contact for investors who wish to complied with during the year.
Following that the time spent by the Board in session raise questions, queries or concerns.
During the AGM, the results of voting are published was of the highest quality.
The strategic plan the year, the Chairman met with a number of through a Regulatory Information Service and approved by the Board in August 2016 is the our larger shareholders.
Christopher Barling, on our website.
backbone around which performance can our Senior Independent Non-Executive be measured and agendas framed.
It was Director, is also available to meet key also agreed that after each Board meeting, investors.
OTHER INFORMATION the Non-Executive Directors would hold a short review session to introduce a culture of Following dialogue with individual Certain additional information in relation to continuous improvement.
Finally, it was noted institutional shareholders, the Chairman, the Companys share capital, the powers of that the induction process for new Directors Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Directors and amendments to the Articles of required refreshing.
Officer all ensure that the Board is fully Association that is required to be disclosed briefed on shareholders views such that any pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the Individual appraisal of each Executive issues or concerns are fully understood and Directors Report on pages 88 to 91.
Directors performance is undertaken by the considered.
Analyst and broker briefings are Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors, regularly provided to the Board.
In addition, led by the Senior Independent Director, carry the Groups brokers sought feedback from out an appraisal of the performance of the investors following the 2015 final and 2016 Chairman.
The Chief Executives performance interim results, and this feedback was was evaluated by the Chairman with input reported to the Board.
from the rest of the Board.
The performance of the Non-Executive Directors was appraised by the Chairman on a one-to-one basis.
The appraisals concluded that the Chairman and AGM all Directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to communicate with shareholders and we welcome and encourage their participation at the meeting.
All Directors make themselves available
