HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK COMMITTEE REPORT uncertainty and deemed low probability Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW may not have been factored adequately into review elsewhere within the Group and The members of the Risk Committee at 30 June On behalf of the Board Risk Committee I am continuously monitor the adequacy and 2016 and attendance at the five Committees pleased to present the Committees report for effectiveness of the Company and Groups held during the 12 month period are shown in 2016.
Over the period we have had a number internal controls understanding how these the table below.
of challenging and valuable discussions in the affect the risk profile of the business.
Committee: the impacts of the EU referendum, The Committee membership constitutes the annual review and approval of the Risk The Risk Committee reports its findings to independent non-executive directors and a Appetite statements, the Hargreaves Lansdown the Board, identifies matters for which action non-executive Chairman.
The biographies of Change Programme, the continual evolution of or improvement is needed, and recommends Committee members can be found on page 50 our fraud and cyber control environment and appropriate steps.
However, the Board retains of the Annual Report.
the rolling consideration of the risk profile.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and Risk Committee approved and recommended approving the overall risk appetite of the On an on-going basis, membership of the the Hargreaves Lansdown Internal Capital business.
Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP for the the Committee and any recommendations for Board approval on 24th February 2016.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee will be new appointments are made to the Nominaavailable at the Annual General Meeting to tion Committee for onward recommendation answer any questions about the work of the to the Board.
Appointments are for a period ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Committee.
of three years and are extendable for further periods of up to three years provided the diThe Board Risk Committee is a forward rector still meets the criteria for membership looking committee of the Board of Hargreaves BOARD RISK COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP of the Committee.
Lansdown plc seeking to anticipate potential AND ATTENDANCE issues by assessing known or foreseeable risks and thereby enabling Hargreaves Lansdown The Risk Committee meets at least four times MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR plc and its subsidiaries to take action to avoid each year but more frequently when required, or mitigate the impact of those issues.
and met five times during this financial year.
In discharging its responsibilities the Risk The attendance by each director is set out Committee concentrated on the following areas: The responsibilities of the Risk Committee are in the table below.
The Director of Risk and set out in its Terms of Reference, which are Compliance, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Information 1.
Development and enhancement of the designed to assist the Board in discharging its Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Commercial Hargreaves Lansdown Risk framework responsibilities: Director Chief Executive and Head of Internal During the period the Risk Committee has advising the Board on the Groups overall Audit are routinely invited to attend meetings, overseen a review and enhancement of risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk although the Committee reserves the right to the Hargreaves Lansdown Risk framework.
strategy, taking into account the current request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Each element of the model has been and prospective macroeconomic and assessed, challenged and where appropriate financial environment: In between the formal schedule of meetings, the improvements identified and delivered.
overseeing and advising the Board on the Committee Chairman keeps in regular contact current risk exposures of the Company with the Chief Executive, Director of Risk and As a result of this review key areas have and future risk strategy: Compliance, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk been further developed and approved by the advising the Board on the amount of surplus regulatory capital that should be held commensurate with the Groups risk Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended profile and regulatory obligations: Chairman overseeing the effectiveness of the risk Mike Evans 5 5 management procedures, including AIFMD and the principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Group and the steps being Members taken to mitigate them: Shirley Garrood 5 5 reviewing and recommending to the Board Stephen Robertson 5 5 the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Chris Barling 5 5 Assessment Process ICAAP : Jayne Styles joined Committee 3 3 identifying and assessing future potential as member Oct 15 plus one as an observer risks which, by virtue of their unfamiliarity, HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 87 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Committee, in particular the Risk Appetite Process ICAAP model and the structure within which the BOARD RISK COMMITTEE The Committee approved and recommended risk registers are managed and have been ALLOCATION OF TIME for Board approval the Hargreaves Lansdown developed.
The Risk Committee approved the ICAAP on 24 February 2016.
Understanding refreshed Group Risk Appetite Statements in of the ICAAP and using it as an element of January 2016 and a fresh Risk Universe was The chart below provides an illustration risk management challenge to the business is approved in April 2016. of the approximate percentage of time integral to the Committee, with specific agenda spent by the Committee on various items dedicated to the constituent elements 2.
Risk Management MI and risk profile matters during 2015 16. including reverse stress testing, stress and discussions scenarios and wind down.
The Committee has received reports from the Risk department at each Committee 6.
Project risks meeting as well as ad hoc reports from other The Risk Committee has maintained areas of the business on request.
Regular oversight of the Groups change programme topics of discussion have included dealing throughout the period, with updates provided statistics, conduct risk through the conduct to the Committee by the Change team for risk key risk indicators, incident reports with consideration and challenge.
The Committee associated learnings and the Departmental received sufficient assurance to be confident risks.
The Committee has challenged the that the change agenda was being managed business where trends and data suggest further within agreed appetite and capital adequacy action is required.
the management of the risk profile is given sufficient consideration and that necessary 7.
Risk Framework & Governance action has been taken with appropriate n 14% Risk Framework The Committee reviewed a report from governance and oversight.
n 12% Business Model Risks the Chief Risk Officer regarding the design n 14% Emerging Risks and effectiveness of the risk management 3.
Emerging risks n 10% Fraud & Cyber Risk framework, including the introduction of a new Emerging risk has been an agenda item at each Executive Risk Committee.
The Executive Risk n 9% Capital Adequacy Risk Committee during the period.
Papers have Committee is chaired by the Group Director of been submitted by the Executive covering n 7% Project Risks Risk & Compliance.
Its role is to oversee the a variety of emerging risks, these matters n 5% AML MLRO Reports day to day risk management across the Group have been discussed and challenged and the n 7% Remuneration as set out on page 56.
It meets monthly with Committee has provided considered guidance n 22% Other attendance from members of the Executive on a variety of external emerging risks.
Topics Committee supported by Senior Management which have been discussed by the Committee and Subject Matter Experts.
The Board Risk include a variety of systemic, regulatory, Committee recommended the report to the political, technological and internal change risks.
Audit Committee as the basis for its approval measures have all increased the effectiveness of the businesses management of risk and the of Risk Management.
Fraud & Cyber risk effectiveness of the control environment.
Risk Committee has been in regular contact The Risk Committee is aware of the industry with the Head of Internal Audit throughout the exposure to both fraud and cyber risk, and 8.
Having conducted a review of the Risk this is reflected in the frequency with which The Committee provided support and input to department the Committee is happy with both it is discussed at the Committee.
During the the Remuneration Committee by reviewing a its resources and its future development plans.
period a new Chief Information Security Officer report from the Chief Risk Officer covering the At its meeting in June 2016, the Committee was recruited and the Fraud team became appropriateness of the remuneration schemes received and approved the Annual Report on part of the Compliance and Risk department.
The Committee acknowledged and supported upon the Groups risk profile.
the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups the approval by the Executive Committee of risk management process.
Risk Effectiveness focused on the concept of Protect, Detect, During the year, the Committee has Signed on behalf of the Risk Committee Respond and Recover and as such covers overseen a range of improvements in both lifecycle information, physical and personnel the capacity of the Risk Team, including the Mike Evans security, fraud monitoring as well as elements appointment of a new Chief Risk Officer, and Chairman of the Risk Committee of service continuity disaster recovery.
the completeness of the framework.
