HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Shirley Garrood, Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Committee, gives her review of the Committees activities during the financial year.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW During the year, the Committee has maintained its focus on monitoring the integrity of the financial reporting process and provided support to the Board in discharging its duties regarding the Groups financial reporting requirements.
Whilst ultimate responsibility for the oversight of the Groups financial reporting rests with the Board, the Committee has reviewed the results and financial announcements and passed its comments and recommendations to the Board.
The Committee has examined the interim review and the Annual Report and Financial process.
During the year the Audit Committee The Committee considered the design Statements and is satisfied that the latter are selected a new Senior Engagement Partner, as and effectiveness of a number of key IT, fair, balanced and understandable.
The year the previous partner was leaving PwC.
As part organisational and Client Assets Sourcebook ended 30 June 2016 is the first year for which of this process the Committee, Chief Financial CASS controls as part of fulfilling its the Group must comply with the Financial Officer CFO and PwC worked together to responsibility to oversee the Groups system Reporting Councils FRC requirements on ensure a smooth transition.
This year also sees the Group adopt FRS101 for the financial The Committee has continued to receive The Terms of Reference for the Audit statements of its subsidiary companies.
The and review reports from the Internal Audit Committee have been reviewed and Committee has discussed the impact of these function, with time being devoted to updated to clarify its responsibilities changes and approved the way in which they discussion of findings, recommended actions following the introduction of the Board Risk have been dealt with.
and progress in completing those actions.
Committee in the previous financial year.
The The Internal Audit function will be subject responsibilities of the Audit Committee have The quality of the external auditors work, to an External Quality Assessment EQA in been summarised below and the complete their effectiveness and their independence August and September 2016 to provide the Terms of Reference may be found at www.
have been reviewed by the Committee as part Committee with an independent assessment hl.
of its responsibility for oversight of the audit of their effectiveness.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE All members of the Committee are independent.
The biographies The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Chief Operating Officer COO of Committee members can be found on page 50.
The members of part year only, CFO, Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Director the Audit Committee as at 30 June 2016 were as follows: of Risk and Compliance are routinely invited to, and attend, the majority of meetings, although the Committee reserves the right to Shirley Garrood Chairman Chartered Accountant : request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The external auditor also Appointed 25 October 2013 attended all meetings.
Christopher Barling: Appointed 26 August 2010 Stephen Robertson: Appointed 3 October 2011 The Audit Committee meets at least four times each year but more Jayne Styles: Appointed 23 October 2015 frequently when required, and met five times during this financial year.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE professional and regulatory requirements: Chairman currently fulfils this requirement.
making recommendations to the During the year Jayne Styles was appointed The responsibilities of the Audit Committee Board, for a resolution to be put to the to the Committee, replacing Dharmash Mistry, are set out in its Terms of Reference, shareholders for their approval in general who resigned on 31 August 2015. which are designed to assist the Board in meetings in relation to the appointment discharging its responsibilities for: or removal of the external auditor and the The Group provides an induction programme approval of the remuneration and terms of for new Audit Committee members and onmonitoring the financial reporting process engagement of the external auditor: going training to enable all of the Committee including the integrity of our annual and monitoring and reviewing the members to carry out their duties.
New interim reports, preliminary results and effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit Committee members also meet some of the any other formal announcements relating function: and Groups staff, as part of their induction and to financial performance: overseeing the Groups procedures all Committee members are encouraged to reviewing the continuing appropriateness for public interest disclosure engage with staff throughout the year.
Onof the Groups accounting policies: whistleblowing.
going training includes individual attendance reviewing the clarity of disclosures, at formal conferences, internal briefings and ensuring the Group has made appropriate The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be briefings by external accountancy firms.
estimates and judgements in preparing available at the Annual General Meeting to all material information presented in the answer any questions about the work of the Annual Report: Committee.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL ensuring that the integrity of our Annual YEAR Report and Financial Statements, taken as In between the formal schedule of meetings, a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable the Committee Chairman keeps in regular In discharging its responsibilities the Audit and provides shareholders with the contact with the CEO, CFO, Head of Internal Committee concentrated on five key areas: information necessary to assess the Audit, Group Director of Risk and Compliance, Groups position and performance, Chief Risk Officer and the Senior Engagement Financial Reporting business model and strategy: Partner of the external auditor.
External Audit reviewing the Groups viability statement Internal Audit and making recommendations to the On an on-going basis, membership of the IT and Other Internal Controls Board: Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of Audit Committee effectiveness reviewing the Groups internal financial the Committee and any recommendations controls and the Groups internal control for new appointments are made to The Audit Committee has passed systems: the Nomination Committee for onward responsibility for the review of risk reviewing the statements to be included recommendation to the Board.
Appointments management systems to the Risk Committee in the Annual Report and Financial are for a period of three years and are following a review of the Terms of Reference Statements concerning internal controls: extendable by no more than two additional of both committees.
The Committee reviewing and monitoring the external three-year periods.
The UK Corporate continues to review key controls where their auditors independence and objectivity Governance Code requires the inclusion of at failure could have an impact on the integrity and the effectiveness of the audit process, least one member with recent and relevant of financial record-keeping, reporting and taking into consideration relevant UK financial experience and our Committee disclosure.
Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended Chairman Shirley Garrood 5 5 Members Chris Barling 5 5 Stephen Robertson 5 5 Jayne Styles joined Committee as a member Oct 15 3 plus one as an observer 3 Dharmash Mistry resigned, last meeting Aug 15 1 1 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 checking internal consistency, consistency derived from the external audit approach such FINANCIAL REPORTING with other statements, consistency that revenue streams were recalculated on with internal accounting records and 100% of our most significant revenue streams, arithmetical accuracy: with sample based testing on the remainder.
With support and input from the external The Audit Committee and the Board Internal Audit have also conducted a review of auditor, the Committee, on behalf of the Board, review the draft consolidated financial fee charging during the year.
has examined the Annual Report and Financial statements.
The Audit Committee Statements, Interim Report and Financial receives reports from management Capitalisation of intangible assets: The Statements, and the trading updates together and the external auditors on significant Group is making a significant investment with the related disclosures, application and judgements, changes in accounting in the development of the HL Savings consistency of accounting policies and the policies, changes in accounting estimates proposition.
Given the expected long-term financial reporting process.
This examination and other pertinent matters relating to benefit to the Group, the Committee has has included the review and approval the consolidated financial statements.
discussed the appropriate accounting of the Annual Report, and consideration This enables appropriate challenge to take treatment for capitalising the development of the Income Statement, Statement of place: and costs incurred.
The Committee has reviewed Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial The financial statements of all material and approved the policy for capitalising Position, Statement of Changes in Equity, business units are subject to external intangible assets.
1.1 million of development Going Concern statement, Viability Statement audit.
costs incurred for HL Savings since 1 July and the Statement of Cash Flows, with an 2015 and 0.4 million of costs relating to the emphasis on ensuring that these are fair, The Group uses the same firm of auditors to on-boarding of a book of client assets have balanced and understandable.
The integrity of the financial statements is Viability statement: The update to the underpinned by the control environment.
In SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS AND FRCs Corporate Governance Code regarding this regard, the Committee has considered FINANCIAL REPORTING FOR 2016 viability statements applies to accounting risk and control reports from the Head of periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer, and As part of the review of the Annual Report, The year ended 30 June 2016 is the first year the Group Director of Risk and Compliance the Audit Committee concluded that there are in which these revisions apply to HL.
and satisfied itself that the integrity of no significant financial judgements and that the control environment supporting the the key area of discussion for the Committee The Committee has reviewed and discussed financial reporting and disclosure process is in the financial statements is revenue as it is the content of the Viability Statement as appropriate.
shown in the Directors report and made recommendations to the Board.
In making Key controls over the preparation of the For the year ended 30 June 2016 the these recommendations the Committee consolidated financial statements include: Committee has given particular consideration considered the timeframe for the viability The risk function and management to the disclosure and accounting policy for assessment, the principal risks to be conduct periodic checks on internal the following areas: addressed in the analysis, the nature and financial controls: extent of supporting information and the Management regularly monitors and Revenue: Given the nature of HLs business, key assumptions underpinning the forecasts.
considers developments in accounting the revenue stream is non-complex, being Reference was also made to work already regulations and best practice in financial mainly high volume, low value transactions performed for the ICAAP as reviewed by the reporting, and where appropriate, reflects which turn into cash quickly, therefore the Risk Committee.
developments in the consolidated degree of judgement required over this financial statements.
Appropriate briefings significant area is limited.
Whilst considering Adoption of FRS101 Reduced Disclosure and or training are provided to key finance revenue, the Committee received information Framework: In 2012 and 2013, the personnel on relevant developments in from the CFO, the finance team and the FRC fundamentally revised UK financial accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee reviewed reporting standards by replacing almost all Audit Committee is also kept appraised of and discussed management information existing standards with three new Financial such developments: during the year including absolute levels of Reporting Standards FRS - FRS100, Regular reviews of financial performance revenue and variances in revenue between FRS101 and FRS102.
As a result companies by senior management: 2015 and 2016.
Particular emphasis has been will move away from UK GAAP towards The Groups consolidation, which placed on understanding the continued effect implementation, in part or in full, of IFRS.
consolidates the results of each business of low interest rates and the impact of the Companies are required to select the most unit and makes appropriate adjustments, Retail Distribution Review RDRs sunset suitable standard and implement the is subject to multiple levels of review by clause on commission receipts.
relevant changes: HL has selected FRS101.
the Group Finance function: Information is also provided to the Committee FRS101 came into effect for reporting periods The draft consolidated financial on the performance of cash reconciliations, beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
It statements are reviewed by an individual stock reconciliations and client money introduced a reduced disclosure framework independent from those individuals reconciliations, which all underpin the revenue that enables subsidiaries and their parents to who were responsible for preparing the calculation.
Increased confidence has been use the recognition and measurement bases financial statements.
The review includes HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 63 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 of IFRS without making the level of disclosure There are no contractual or similar obligations EXTERNAL AUDIT required by full IFRS.
restricting the Groups choice of external auditor and the external auditor has The financial year ended 30 June 2016 is confirmed to the Committee that they remain The Committee is responsible for the the first period for which the subsidiary independent.
development, implementation and monitoring companies will report under the new of the Groups policy on external audit.
The opening balances and There has been a change of Senior policy assigns oversight responsibility for prior year comparatives of the subsidiary Engagement Partner during the year.
monitoring the independence, objectivity companies have been restated along with The Committee discussed the required and compliance with ethical and regulatory provision of a note to the accounts explaining competencies, agreed an interview process requirements to the Audit Committee, and the effect of the transition.
The Committee and then selected the new Partner.
The new day to day responsibility to the CFO.
The discussed and approved the implementation Senior Engagement Partner was in place for policy states that the external auditor is of FRS 101 for the Group subsidiaries.
jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit the Committees discussion, it was recognised Committee and that the Audit Committee is that a restatement was required to correct The Committee met with the external auditor the primary contact.
an error in the accounting at parent company privately this year in order to discuss any level and its subsidiaries relating to employee matters directly with the Senior Engagement The Groups policy on external audit is share based remuneration schemes.
The Partner in the absence of management.
regularly reviewed to ensure that the accounting at Group level was and is correct.
independence and objectivity of our external PwC have acted as auditors to the Group auditors is maintained.
In line with the EU audit categories of non-audit services which the FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE regulation requirements, Hargreaves external auditor will and will not be allowed Lansdown will be required to review PwC as to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis The Company has put in place arrangements statutory auditor by 2023.
This regulation levels and Audit Committee Chairman to ensure that the Annual Report, requires the Company to undertake a formal approval.
The policy establishes guidelines taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and tender process at least every ten years.
In for the recruitment of employees or former understandable and provides shareholders addition, the Senior Engagement Partner employees of the external auditors and for with the information necessary to assess is required to be replaced every five years the recruitment of our employees by them.
the Companys position and performance, in accordance with the regulation and was The policy further states that our external business model and strategy.
The Committee replaced this year as described above.
auditor may only be used for non-audit examined the 2016 Annual Report and work where there are specific circumstances Financial Statements and was specifically The Company has complied with the which mean they are the only firm able to tasked by the Board to advise it on provisions of the Competition Markets provide a good service at an acceptable whether the report is fair, balanced and Authority Order 2014 throughout the year price.
The policy may be found at www.
under review and as at the date of this report.
The Committee did this by satisfying itself The Committee remains satisfied with the that there is a robust process of challenge, performance and effectiveness of PwC and During the year, the Committee reviewed including challenge by the Committee itself.
that they continue to remain independent and and approved a recommendation from The Committees own challenge process objective, as demonstrated by consideration management on the Companys audit and included questioning the Chief Executive on of the quality, experience, continuity and non-audit fees.
There were 153,000 of the overall messages and tone of his review training of the audit team.
The Committee non-audit fees during 2016 2015: 110,000. statement, examining and challenging reports has therefore recommended to the Board 100,000 of this amount related to the from both management and the external that a resolution is put to shareholders FCA-mandated audit of subsidiaries regulated auditor relating to the Annual Report, and recommending their reappointment together under the CASS rules.
39,000 related to the reviewing consistency with internal reports with their terms of engagement and profit-verification work to enable payment presented to the Board by management, remuneration at the Annual General Meeting of dividends in line with the established the CFO, Head of Internal Audit, Group of the Company.
This will continue to be timetable and 14,000 related to the interim Director of Risk and Compliance and Chief assessed on an annual basis.
Fees for the audit for 2016 were Risk Officer during the year.
After challenge, 131,000 2015: 110,000. debate and consideration of all relevant The external auditor will be asked to attend information, the Committee concluded that it the AGM and will be available to answer Following discussions between the could recommend to the Board that the 2016 shareholders questions about the audit and Committee, the CFO and the external auditor, Annual Report and Financial Statements is their report found on page 93. on ways of improving the efficiency of the fair, balanced and understandable.
audit after the second year of PWCs tenure, a number of changes were agreed.
In particular, the external auditor will focus on completing the audit of the Group and significant balances in subsidiaries before beginning on the audit of the subsidiaries.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Topics addressed this year included: INTERNAL AUDIT AUDIT COMMITTEE CASS governance, enhancements to CASS ALLOCATION OF TIME management information and embedding The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling CASS development in the project its responsibilities through its oversight of management process: the adequacy of resourcing and plans of the The chart below provides an illustration Review and discussion of the CASS audit Internal Audit department.
Internal Audit of the approximate percentage of time for the year ended 31 May 2016: presents its plans for audit, using a risk based spent by the Committee on various Capacity and scalability of IT systems: approach, to the Committee twice a year for matters during 2015 16.
Continuing enhancements to the core IT prioritisation and approval.
The Internal Audit operating platform: charter can be found on our website at www.
IT security testing, including social hl.
engineering, phishing and Denial of Service attacks both DOS & DDOS : Having conducted a review of the Internal Transfers of books of client assets from Audit department the Committee is happy collective investment providers to HL: with both its resources and plans.
The Introduction of a high level controls Institute of Internal Auditors recommends dashboard, providing an at-a-glance that an external review of the Internal Audit view of managements assessment of function is carried out no less than every the status of key controls overlaid with five years.
Our Internal Audit function had Internal Audits assessment: a satisfactory external review carried out Progress towards aligning individual in May 2012.
An external review of Internal performance objectives with those of the Audit took place in August and September organisation: 2016, Protiviti were appointed to conduct the A review of the organisations culture: and work.
n 29% Financial Reporting The Chairman of the Committee was in n 9% External Audit regular contact with the Head of Internal n 16% Internal Audit Audit throughout the year.
n 30% IT & Other Internal Controls AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee met with the Head of Internal EFFECTIVENESS n 16% Other Audit privately this year in order to discuss any matters directly in the absence of management.
Following last years independent review of the effectiveness of the Committee, the year, the Committee chose to review its following action was taken: effectiveness this year by means of a IT & OTHER INTERNAL self-assessment questionnaire.
The results An additional meeting was added to the showed that the Committee believes it is Committees programme.
CONTROLS operating effectively and working as should Drafts of the Annual Financial Statements be expected.
and the Annual Report were provided to the Committee at an earlier stage The Committee received a report from the to ensure there is sufficient time for Risk Committee with its conclusions on the ALLOCATION OF TIME members of the Committee to review, design and effectiveness of the Groups challenge and provide input.
The Committee The chart above shows how the Committee At the Committees request, Internal considered this alongside a report from the spent its time in the year to 30 June 2016.
Audit conducted a review of the culture Head of Internal Audit on the effectiveness of the organisation to ensure compliance of internal controls and demonstrating Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee.
with the FRCs requirement that it be management responsiveness in addressing considered by the Board.
The results of issues identified.
Shirley Garrood this work have been reviewed, discussed Chairman of the Audit Committee by the Committee and referred to the The Committee receives reports at each 6 September 2016 Board meeting from Compliance and Risk, as well as The Committee has continued to oversee Internal Audit.
The Committee challenged the and provide challenge to the evolution of key executives on the content and veracity of the organisations control framework.
those reports and the Committee has been satisfied that appropriate arrangements, Following an independent review last actions or mitigating controls are in place.
