HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Committees Meetings eligible Meetings attended report for 2016.
Over the period we have to attend completed the appointment process for our Chairman new Chief Financial Officer CFO, Christopher Mike Evans 3 3 Hill, and our latest Non-Executive Director, Jayne Styles.
We reviewed the size and Members composition of the Board and we have improved the quality of our succession Chris Barling 3 3 planning and endorsed the leadership and Shirley Garrood 3 3 development plans.
Stephen Robertson 3 3 Jayne Styles joined Committee as member Oct 15 1 1 Dharmash Mistry resigned, last meeting Aug 15 0 0 ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, with due regard to skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, making recommendations to the Board as to any changes.
The Committee leads the process for Board appointments, re-election and succession of Directors and the Chairman.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board concerning the composition and skills of the Board including proposed appointees to the Board and the membership of the Committees.
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by existing Board members, by an external search company, or via searches performed by the Company itself.
Consideration will be given to ensure appointees have enough organisation to allow it to compete effectively DIVERSITY time available to devote to the role and in its market.
that the balance of skills, knowledge and When assessing new appointments to our experience on the Board will be maintained.
Board, we review carefully the combined When the Committee has found a suitable NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP skills and experience of the existing Board candidate, the Chairman of the Committee AND ATTENDANCE members to determine what characteristics will make a proposal to the whole Board and we are looking for from a new Director.
the appointment is the responsibility of the The Nomination Committee meets at least Each member of the Hargreaves Lansdown whole Board following recommendation from twice a year but more frequently when Board must have the skills, experience and the Committee.
required, and met four times during this character that will enable each Director to financial year.
The Committee is chaired by contribute both individually, and as part of The Committee is responsible for the Mike Evans and its other members at 30 the team, to the effectiveness of the Board succession planning for the whole Board and senior executives, taking into account the June 2016 were Christopher Barling, Shirley and the success of the Company.
We believe challenges and opportunities facing the Group Garrood, Stephen Robertson and Jayne that diversity amongst Board members and the future skills and expertise needed Styles.
The Chief Executive and the Chief is of great value but that diversity is a far on the Board.
It is also required to review the People Officer are routinely invited to attend wider subject than just gender.
We will give leadership and development needs of the meetings as required.
careful consideration to issues of overall HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 85 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 for the senior team.
In the same meeting, Board balance and diversity in making new the Committee discussed the possible appointments to the Board.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE options for succession planning for the ALLOCATION OF TIME Chairman.
Subsequent to their discussions, As at 30 June 2016, the Board numbers the Committee commissioned external seven in total, of which two are executive consultants to undertake psychometric and five independent including the The chart below provides an illustration profiles of potential candidates for Chairman.
Female Directors constitute of the approximate percentage of time appointment to the Executive Committee and 29% of the Board and 0% of the Executive spent by the Committee on various for Chief Executive succession.
Subject to the requirements set matters during 2015 16. out above, Hargreaves Lansdown will aim Signed on behalf of the Nomination to maintain female representation on the Committee.
Board at least at the current level and give due consideration to increasing the level if Mike Evans appropriate candidates are available when Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board vacancies arise.
We are committed to 6 September 2016 maintaining a diverse workforce at all levels across the Company and more information on how we do this can be found in the Our People section on page 44.
A copy of our full statement on Board Diversity can be found on www.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE n 37% Succession planning FINANCIAL YEAR n 33% Leadership and developement During the year the Committee completed the n 12% Board needs approval and appointment process of our new CFO Christopher Hill, the search for which n 12% Non-Exec recruitment was led by Oryx Executive Search, a search n 3% Exec recruitment company which has no other connection with the Company.
The Committee also completed n 3% Diversity the approval and appointment process of our latest Non-Executive Director, Jayne Styles, and recommended her appointment as Chair of the Investment Committee.
This search was internally led, utilising the Groups extensive links with the investment community to generate potential candidates.
Following the externally facilitated Board Effectiveness review in 2015, in July 2015 the Committee considered in depth the structure, size, composition and diversity of the Board and identified several specific areas for consideration when the need arises to broaden the non-executive side of the Board.
In May 2016, the Committee received and discussed in depth a detailed review of succession planning for the Executive Directors and senior management within the Group.
It also received and endorsed the leadership and development curriculum
