Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee during the year comprised the following Independent Non-Executive Directors meeting the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in that all Committee members are Independent Non-Executive Directors with relevant sector and financial experience and the Committee as a whole shall have competence relevant tothe sector in which the Company operates: Chairman Members Thomas Colraine Teresa Robson-Capps Ian Cormack Thomas Colraine Pierre Lefevre Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 Malcolm Le May 1 M alcolm Le May stepped down as a Committee member upon theappointment of Teresa Robson-Capps in July 2016.
Dear Shareholders During the year, following the appointment of Teresa I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Robson-Capps as a Director, the Committee approved Committee the Committee for the financial hermembership of the Audit Committee: at the same year ended 31 December 2016. time Malcolm Le May agreed to step down as a Committee member.
Each member of the Committee has significant experience working with listed entities on matters relating The Committee supports the Board by reviewing the integrity to financial probity and internal control.
Biographies of ofthe financial information, robustness of internal controls, the Directors are set out on pages 46 to 48.
The Company the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and takes and standards, the effectiveness of external and internal theminutes of all meetings.
audit and providing clear, complete, fair, balanced and understandable financial reports to shareholders.
The Although not Committee members, the external Auditor, Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, KPMG LLP KPMG, the internal Auditor, Grant Thornton UK making any necessary recommendations for action or LLP Grant Thornton, the Chief Executive Officer and the improvements.
The Committees Terms of Reference can Chief Financial Officer are notified of all meetings and may befound on the Companys website www.
At each meeting, the Committee has company-information corporate-governance.
the opportunity to talk to the external and internal Auditors without the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer being present.
As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted in October this year, the Audit Committee was also subject to an appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered the effectiveness of processes and procedures established by the Committee to fulfil its duties, the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and financial and regulatory risk management systems as well as monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external Auditors.
The performance of Committee members and the Committee Chairman were also reviewed.
The Committee has agreed a number of actions for the coming year in relation to the aforementioned areas.
