A number of sophisticated identification Compliance Our internal control and validation methodologies and The Compliance functions within the framework databases are employed to help trading entities monitor compliance prevent potentially fraudulent activity with the various regulatory and legal at various points in the application, The three lines of defence obligations of the Group, specifically sale and claims process.
Atthe point those of the FCA in the UK and the FSC of quote, risk scoring and referencing in Gibraltar.
This monitoring helps to The Board tools including data enrichment are provide input into training, marketing used to identify and reduce exposure and other documents as part of the to potentially fraudulent applications.
continuous improvement approach to At the point of sale, risk scoring is again regulatory obligations.
Audit or Risk committees undertaken to identify any quotation irregularities which are potentially quote The Group continues to ensure its manipulation frauds.
During the claims Compliance oversight function remains process, relational databases, external effective in monitoring and reporting as 3 Independent Assurance referencing and investigations are used to whether that regulatory adherence to identify potentially fraudulent claims.
and customer conduct obligations are The strength of the Insight team being met.
The Compliance function is recognised in the industry and it 2 Oversight functions provides advisory guidance to the has been the recipient of anumber business as well as providing second ofindustry awards.
1 Business operational Fraud The Group has a market leading counterfraud capability, which to date has Risk management does not end with generated significant cost savings and the reporting of risk events, it is an which supports demand for participation ongoing and iterative process whereby by its insurer panel and reinsurance the organisational risk profiles of the partners.
The Groups counter-fraud Company and its trading subsidiaries are operations team, Insight, operates as an continually reviewed by Risk Committees integrated, comprehensive risk selection and Boards alike.
Insight includes a dedicated team that includes Internal audit new business review agents, analysts, intelligence operatives, claims handlers, The remit of the internal audit function former police officers and field based is covered in the Audit Committee investigators.
The Retail business was report on pages 62 to 66. a founding member of the Insurance Fraud Bureaus Application Fraud Steering Committee and has a very strong relationship with the Insurance Fraud Enforcement Department.
41 Managing our risks continued How we protect our business continued To ensure that a consistent and robust Policies and procedures Brexit risk approach to governance is maintained To ensure stakeholders are treated The implications of Brexit have been throughout the Group, a number of equally and compliance with legislation, assessed as having low impact on the policies are approved by the Groups regulation and best practice guidance Group.
The UK leaving the EU is not likely Board and are adopted in full by the is maintained to high standards, to impact the need for UK motorists and trading subsidiaries.
guidance and direction is provided households to obtain insurance and is to all colleagues through policies therefore unlikely to significantly affect To be better placed to demonstrate and andprocedures.
evidence compliance with the Solvency II regime, the systems of governance, Policies that are critical to the Groups The ongoing uncertainty as to timing internal controls and risk and compliance overall control and governance and terms of the UKs exit from the policies in the Underwriting subsidiary structures are reserved for formal EU may lead to further increased have been enhanced.
These volatility in the financial markets and policies typically cover legal and therefore could impact on the fair Risk assessment regulatory requirements or culture and value of the Groups investments.
They also help to communicate The Directors have carried out a robust Thisrisk is mitigated by the conservative assessment of the principal risks facing and embed Board approved risk investment portfolio, which was appetite.
The three lines of defence the Group, including those that would demonstrated by the portfolios threaten its business model, future model ensures that the standards and resilience to the market volatility seen appetites, as defined by these policies, performance, solvency or liquidity.
immediately after the referendum result function as intended and provide announcement, and minimal exposure expected outcomes.
Under the three The Group considers its material risks to foreign exchange movements.
as follows: lines of defence model, assurance testing and evidence gathering on It is not expected that there will 1.
Commercial performance risk aspects of how the business is managed be anyimmediate or short term includes reinsurance risk, market risk, is undertaken by the Group internal regulatorychange in Gibraltar or the pricing risk and reserving risk : The auditor who reports to the Board UK as a result of the UK leaving the EU.
risk of loss resulting from failure to via the Audit Committee.
Day to day At present the Group has no reason to meet the Groups strategic objectives responsibility for implementing policies anticipate any change to the regulatory anddeliver the Three Year Plan.
and procedures is the remit of senior environment, or solvency regimes, 2.
L iquidity risk: The risk of loss resulting management whose operational within which it operates, although it decisions take into account risk, against from an inability to meet financial monitors developments to ensure that commitments as they falldue.
risk appetite, and how this can be any potential risks are identified early controlled effectively.
Board approved andmitigated as necessary.
O perational risk: The risk of loss polices are reviewed and approved at resulting from inadequate or failed least once a year.
Overall, the UK leaving the EU is not internal processes, people or systems expected to significantly impact on and external events.
