Corporate governance continued Corporate governance report continued The Chairman met the independence criteria as set out Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in B.
The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code and the assessment of its compliance A.
4 The role of Non-Executive Directors withthe Code is set out below.
The Chairman actively invites the Non-Executive Directors views.
They provide constructive challenge to management A.
Leadership and help develop proposals on strategy.
1 The role of the Board The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group within The Board has appointed Thomas Colraine as Senior a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups shareholders, to attend sufficient meetings to listen to strategic aims and ensures that the necessary resources the views of major shareholders and tohelp to develop are in place to achieve those aims.
There is a clear schedule  of the issuesandconcerns.
of matters reserved for the Board, together with delegated authorities.
The Board met 12 times during the year: a The Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors summary of the matters considered by the Board during 2016 without the Executive Directors present during the year.
The biographies of the members of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director also met with Board are provided on pages 46 to 48 where the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to Senior Independent Director and Committee members are appraise the Chairmans performance and on such other identified.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance occasions as were deemed appropriate.
cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Minutes of every Board and Committee meeting are taken A.
2 Division of responsibilities by the Company Secretary and are approved as a true and The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and accurate account by the respective Board or Committee at SeniorIndependent Non-Executive Director are clearly thesubsequent meeting.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not to be exercised by the same individual.
Effectiveness responsibilities between the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer B.
1 The composition of the Board andSenior Independent Non-Executive Director are set When making appointments to the Board, the Board and outinwriting and approved by the Board.
the Nomination Committee consider the wide range of skills, knowledge and experience required to maintain an effective The Chairman, Mike Fairey, is responsible for the leadership Board.
The Board believes that it and its Committees have the andeffectiveness of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer, appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and Gary Hoffman, is responsible for leading the day to day knowledge of the Company and the industry within which it management of the Group in line with the strategy set by operates to enable them to discharge their respective duties the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and responsibilities effectively.
Thomas Colraine, is available to shareholders if they have concerns and will attend sufficient meetings with, and listen The Board has an appropriate combination of Executive and to the views of, major shareholders to help to develop a Non-Executive Directors.
In particular it has an appropriate balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of number of Independent Non-Executive Directors such that no majorshareholders: he also acts as a sounding board individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards fortheChairman.
At the beginning of the year the Company did not fully comply with the provisions of theCode in that half A.
3 The role of the Chairman of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was not composed of The Chairman sets the agendas for the Board meetings Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Duringthe year the inconjunction with the Company Secretary and promotes Board appointed two further Independent Non-Executive open and constructive debate between Directors and Directors in July and is now fully compliant with the Code Non-Executive Directors during meetings.
58 Those members of the Board who the Company deems B.
3 Commitment tobeindependent are identified on pages 46 to 48.
When appointed, Directors are informed of the time commitment expected from them and this is stipulated in B.
2 Board appointments their contract of employment or letter of appointment as The Board is responsible for the appointment of all Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of The appointment of Non-Executive Directors is led by Non-Executive Directors are made available for inspection the Nomination Committee.
The work of the Nomination atthe Groups Head Office.
Committee during the year is provided on page 67 to 68.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms Neither of the Executive Directors holds any Non-Executive subject to re-election and to statutory provisions relating Directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship to the removal of a Director.
Any term beyond six years for ofsuch a company.
a Non-Executive Director will be subject to a particularly rigorous review taking into account the need for progressive B.
4 Development refreshing of the Board.
All Directors have full unfettered access to senior management.
Newly appointed Board members are provided with a full The Board recognises it should be representative of its induction programme.
Following this induction, meetings are workforce as well as the world within which the Group arranged with senior managers to provide ongoing education operates.
The Board appreciates the benefits of diversity and information about the business throughout the year.
andwill continue to seek appropriate, well qualified candidates irrespective of race, gender, disability, religion An annual effectiveness evaluation was undertaken by the orbelief, sexual orientation or age.
Board in the year under review: the outcome was an agreed action plan for the Board and its Committees for the year Shareholders Hastings A, L. P. Hastings B, L. P. Goldman, ahead.
The training and development needs of each Director Sachs & Co. Goldman Sachs and the Founder Shareholders will be assessed and appropriate support provided.
Founders continue to have significant direct and indirect via Hastings Investco Limited investment in the Company.
5 Information and support Pursuant to a Relationship Agreement, Goldman Sachs and The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, the Founders are each able to appoint two Directors to the ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely Board while they or persons connected to them continue information.
The Company Secretary is responsible for to hold a direct or indirect interest in 20% or more of the advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance Companys shares and one Director while they or persons matters.
All Directors have access to independent professional connected to them continue to hold a direct or indirect advice at Company expense to assist in discharging their interest in at least 5% but less than 20% of the Companys responsibilities as Directors.
These appointees are Sumit Rajpal and Michele Titi-Cappelli Goldman Sachs and Richard Brewster and B.
6 Board evaluation Edward Fitzmaurice Founders.
The Board, its Committees and Directors undertook an evaluation of their performance during the year.
The evaluation Shareholder Rand Merchant Investment Holdings Limited was led by the Company Secretary utilising an external, web and its wholly owned subsidiary, Main Street 1353 Proprietary based appraisal system to provide a confidential assessment.
Limited together RMI, now have a direct or indirect The Board, its Committees and peer reviews of the Company investment in the Company.
Pursuant to a Relationship Secretary, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors Agreement, RMI will be able to appoint one Director and one were also conducted.
A scoring mechanism was used to provide observer to the Board while they or persons connected to recipients with context for the results.
Anonymised responses them continue to hold a direct or indirect interest of between were provided where appropriate.
The Board reviewed the 15 per cent and 29.9 per cent in the issued Ordinary Share evaluation in the Board meeting held in November this year capital of the Company.
and has agreed actions to enhance Board and Committee operations, Director professional development and training aswell as stakeholder engagement.
59 Corporate governance continued Corporate governance report continued It is expected that the review to be undertaken in 2018, being D. Remuneration the third year to be evaluated, will be externally facilitated.
D. 1 Setting levels of remuneration The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration B.
7 Re-election of Directors to attract, retain and motivate the Board but also structures All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the executive remuneration so as to link rewards to corporate first AGM after their appointment.
All Directors are subject andindividual performance.
No Non-Executive Director has been awarded share options C. Accountability or other performance related incentives during the period.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting The Board is responsible for preparing fair, balanced Executive Director notice periods are set at one year or less.
andunderstandable financial information and is assisted by the Audit Committee to ensure this is achieved.
TheStrategic D. 2 Development of executive remuneration policy and packages Report is set out on pages 1 to 52 inclusive and this provides The Board acknowledges that the Group does not fully comply information about the performance of the Group, the business with the requirements of the Code in that not all members of model, the strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating to the Remuneration Committee are Independent Non-Executive the Groups business.
However, it believes that the independence ofthe Remuneration Committee is not compromised as it has an C. 2 Risk management and internal control systems Independent Chairman and a majority of Independent NonThe Board assesses the nature and extent of the significant Executive Directors.
As such it is consistent with the principles of risks the Company faces and maintains sound risk management the Code and contributes towards good corporate governance.
The Board Risk Committee and Audit Committee met at least four times in the year under The activities and composition of the Remuneration review.
Further information on risk management and internal Committee and its approach to setting the remuneration control systems is set out in the Companys Viability Statement policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38, the Risk Committee report on pages 69 to 70 and setout on pages 75 to 85. the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 66.
E. Relations with shareholders The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys E. 1 Shareholder contact risk management and internal controls during 2016, including The Board values opportunities to meet with shareholders financial, operational and compliance controls.
TheBoard and is kept informed of shareholder views.
confirms there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, The Board exercises due care and diligence to ensure that which has been in place throughout the year.
information, including that which is potentially price sensitive or inside information is released to all shareholders at the C. 3 The role of the Audit Committee same time in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory The Audit Committee assists the Board with its responsibilities requirements.
for: ensuring fair, balanced and understandable financial information is prepared: risk management: internal control: E. 2 Annual General Meeting AGM andits relationship with the Auditors.
Its activities are set out in The Board welcomes the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 66.
That report also shareholders at the AGM.
provides details on the length of tenure and re-appointment ofthe Auditors, and when a tender was last conducted.
The Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 66 provides details on the length of tenure and re-appointment of the Auditors, when the tender was last conducted as well as advance notice of the Companys re-tendering plans.
