Nomination Committee Composition of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprised the following Directors during the year: Chairman Members Mike Fairey Richard Brewster Thomas Colraine Ian Cormack Gary Hoffman Sumit Rajpal Biographies of the Committee members are set out on Mike Fairey pages 46 to 48.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available online at www.
Dear Shareholders Meetings I am pleased to present the report on the work The Committee met three times during the year during which it: of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Nomination Committee considered the composition of the Board and necessary steps to achieve compliance with the independence met three times in the period under review.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode : It is proposed that the Committee will meet at least twice agreed to appoint two further Independent Non-Executive a year and at other times as required.
Directors to achieve Code compliance and sought to focus on both appointments being female to also address The Committee is a formal sub-Committee of the Board with its own defined Terms of Reference.
The principal purpose of diversity imbalance: the Nomination Committee is to review the composition and oversaw the process for recruitment of two female evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of Independent Non-Executive Directors and endorsed the Board.
It also leads the process for the appointment of appointment of recommended candidates: new Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors to the approved changes of membership to Board Committees Board and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters as skill mix and diversity.
It oversees the inlight ofnew appointments: succession planning process for Executive Directors and oversaw the process for appointment of new Independent Senior Executives.
Non-Executive Directors to the Groups subsidiary, Hastings Insurance Services Limited: oversaw the process for appointment of a successor tothe Managing Director of Advantage Insurance Company Limited who stepped down due to retirement: considered and endorsed succession plans for Executive Directors and other Senior Executives: endorsed recommendations for new appointments and changes to the Senior Executive team, as recommended bythe Chief Executive Officer: and conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness.
67 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee continued A Relationship Agreement exists between the Company and committed to ensure that the Board is representative in terms certain shareholders whereby these shareholders can appoint of diversity and candidates from a wide range of disciplines up to four Directors to the Board as long as they maintain a and experience were considered.
The Committee abides by the certain shareholding in the Company.
A Relationship Agreement Companys policy to ensure that the best candidate is selected also exists between the Company and other shareholders to join the Board and the Board does not intend to adopt a whereby these shareholders can appoint one Director to the quota system with prescriptive, quantitative targets.
Board as long as they maintain a certain shareholding in the Company.
Further information about these agreements can A long list of candidates was created in conjunction with befound on page 59. anexternal executive search consultancy Russell Reynolds who were able to validate and verify independence and The Committee is aware that the size of the Board as a whole capability.
The Committee selected a shortlist of candidates for should also be considered when considering the Boards interview and made two recommendations for appointment composition so as not be so large as to be unwieldy.
Taking into consideration the views of the Board at the start of the year was not Code compliant and Committee and independent referencing, the Board appointed comprised of 11 Directors, two Executive Directors, four Teresa Robson-Capps and Alison Burns as Independent NonNon-Independent Non-Executive Directors, four Independent Executive Directors in July 2016.
Following these appointments, Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
the Board has an appropriate number ofIndependent NonThe Committee reviewed the composition of the Board during Executive Directors such that no individual or small group the year and it proposed that two further appointments of ofindividuals can dominate the Boards decision taking.
Independent Non-Executive Directors be considered.
As per its Terms of Reference, the Committee can obtain The Remuneration Committee is not fully Code compliant in information from independent executive search consultants that the Committee is not wholly comprised of Independent to support succession planning activity.
During the period Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee reviewed the under review, the Committee engaged executive search composition of the Remuneration Committee during the year agents, Russell Reynolds, to carry out a review of sector and recommended to the Board that the independence of specific external senior capability.
Russell Reynolds does the Remuneration Committee is not compromised as it has nothave any other relationship with the Company.
an Independent Chairman and a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Hastings is intent on becoming fully As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted in compliant in terms of the composition of the Remuneration October this year, the Nomination Committee was also subject Committee by the end of 2017. to an appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how it discharged its responsibilities in maintaining a formal, rigorous Role and responsibilities of the Committee and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board and its Committees, as well as the performance As stated, the Board was aware that at the beginning of the of the Committee members and the Committee Chairman.
year it was not fully compliant with the Code in that less than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was comprised Priorities for 2017 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board agreed that the appointment of two Independent Non-Executive Directors In the coming year the Nomination Committee will focus should be made to ensure the Company fully complied with onBoard composition and succession planning for Directors the Code.
and Senior Executive management within the Company and the Groups trading entities.
When proposing appointments of Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers the independence, skills, knowledge On behalf of the Nomination Committee and experience that a candidate possesses compared to the skill sets and experience of the Board as it currently stands.
Selection of candidates also takes into consideration the Mike Fairey breadth of knowledge that the Board has and that it is required Chairman to provide a well balanced environment which encourages scrutiny and appropriate challenge.
The Committee is also 1 March 2017 68
