Corporate governance continued Corporate governance report The role of the Board Board activity during 2016 The Board is the main decision making body of the Company.
At each meeting the Board received updates from the Chief It provides leadership within a framework of prudent and Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and from the effective controls enabling risk to be assessed and managed.
respective Chairmen following meetings of Board Committees.
It also carries ultimate responsibility for the effective direction These updates included the financial and operational and control of the Group and is accountable to shareholders performance of the Group and business and market for financial and operational performance.
developments of which the Board should be aware.
The Boards activities during the year included: monitoring During the year the Board: financial performance against strategic initiatives and reviewed the operational and financial performance financial targets set at the beginning of the year: monitoring oftheGroup: the effectiveness of internal control, internal audit and risk management systems: monitoring the statutory audit of the received updates from the main trading subsidiaries: Annual Report and Financial Statements: and reviewing and was provided with in depth reviews of various Group monitoring the independence of the external Auditor and the operations: level of non-audit work performed by the Auditor.
received updates on the implementation of the new During the year under review the Board formally met 12 times Guidewire Broker and Claims platform: to review Group operational and financial performance and reviewed and approved governance procedures and to approve the Annual Results for 2015, Trading Statements, compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP awards and Director andthe Market Abuse Regulation: appointments.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board decision is subject to annual review and approval.
reviewed the output of the formal Board Evaluation Matters include the formulation and development of strategy, and agreed an appropriate action plan: major acquisitions or disposals, significant bank borrowings, received updates from its Committees: Board level appointments, the approval of financial reports and price sensitive statements and overall business risk approved documentation for the AGM: assessment.
approved the grant of LTIP awards: Clear responsibilities are allocated to the Non-Executive received updates on Investor Relations: Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior approved Group policies: Independent Director.
These responsibilities are set out in writing and are available from the Company Secretary approved the appointment of new Directors: or at www.
com company-information approved the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the corporate-governance.
Board and the Terms of Reference of its Committees: The respective Boards of Directors of the Groups regulated approved the 2016 Annual Report: entities are responsible to the UKs Financial Conduct Authority approved Trading Statements: and FCA and the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission FSC for ensuring compliance with each entitys regulatory obligations approved the Groups strategy.
and that dealings with the FCA and FSC are handled in aconstructive, co-operative and transparent manner.
