Risk Committee Composition of the Risk Committee The Risk Committee comprised the following Directors during the year: Chairman Members Pierre Lefevre Alison Burns Teresa Robson-Capps 1 Ian Cormack Michele Titi-Cappelli Malcolm Le May 1 I an Cormack stepped down as a Committee member upon the appointment of Alison Burns and Teresa Robson-Capps in July 2016.
Pierre Lefevre Chairman of the Risk Committee During the year, following the appointment of Teresa RobsonCapps and Alison Burns as Company Directors, the Board approved the revised membership of the Risk Committee: Dear Shareholders at the same time Ian Cormack stood down as a Committee member.
Biographies of the Committee members are set out I am pleased to present the report of the on pages 46 to 48.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary Risk Committee for the financial year ended to the Committee and takes the minutes of meetings.
Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available online at www.
com The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk company-information corporate-governance.
management framework and delegates the oversight of this to the Risk Committee.
The Committee is a formal Meetings sub-Committee of the Board with its own specific Terms of The Committee met four times during the year, during which it: Reference.
The principal purpose of the Risk Committee is to reviewed, assessed and approved the Risk Management advise the Board on risk management matters, recommend Framework: the Group framework of risk limits and risk appetite to the Board for approval, and oversee the risk management reviewed, assessed and approved the Risk Management arrangements of the Company and its regulated trading Policy: subsidiaries.
reviewed, assessed and approved the Risk Appetite Statements: The Committee meets at least four times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
defined and assessed all Group risks and examined anumber of critical risks in detail: reviewed and challenged the Group and the regulated subsidiaries RiskReports: reviewed and approved the statements in the Annual Report related to Risk Management: examined in detail critical risks and risk events: and conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness.
69 Corporate governance continued Risk Committee continued As Chairman of the Risk Committee I supervised the Role and responsibilities of the Committee appointment of a Group Chief Risk Officer which was completed The Risk Committee ensures that the Groups material risks in December this year.
This role will provide dedicated support have been identified and that appropriate arrangements as the Committee defines its longer term vision and strategy are in place to assess, mitigate, monitor and report on forenterprise wide risk and compliance management, along those risks effectively.
The Committee also ensures these with the shorter term priorities of the Group.
practices are consistently applied in each of the regulated trading subsidiaries as delegated to the respective company Internal control and risk management Boards.
The Risk Committees within these trading entities are composed of Independent Non-Executive Directors The description of the Groups internal control and risk management is covered in the Managing Our Risks report and executive management who oversee and report on the effectiveness of the Risk Management Framework for their onpages 38 to 45. respective entities.
Conduct risk in the Groups UK regulated subsidiary, and regulatory compliance and customer outcome Priorities for 2017 matters are separately considered by Retails Customer and In the coming year the Risk Committee will focus on: Financial Conduct Committee.
All Committee Chairs report continued development of Group Risk strategies, in formally to the respective entity Boards and regularly meet particular related to Capital Adequacy, Conduct Risk, with the Chairman of the Group Risk Committee who is also Information and Cyber Security, Data Protection, Health and chair of Underwritings Risk Committee.
Safety andResilience and Recovery Capabilities: This cohesive and integrated approach to Risk Management increasing assurance in the implementation of the Group leverages the Risk Committees at subsidiary level and provides wide Risk Management and Compliance strategies: effective assessment of the Groups enterprise wide risk profile.
further embedding Risk Management and Compliance to support the Group strategic and commercial priorities: and As part of an evaluation of Board effectiveness conducted in October 2016, the Risk Committee was also subject to an developing pre-emptive actions in relation to forthcoming appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how regulatory obligations of the Group.
it discharged its responsibilities for: recommending the Groups framework of risk limits and risk appetite on behalf On behalf of the Risk Committee of the Board, overseeing the risk management arrangements of the Company and Group generally: ensuring that the Groups material risks have been identified: that appropriate Pierre Lefevre arrangements are in place to manage and mitigate those risks Chairman effectively: and ensuring that responsibility for managing and monitoring risk in each of the regulated subsidiaries 1 March 2017 has been effectively delegated to the respective Boards of Directors.
The performance of the Committee members and the Committee Chairman was also reviewed.
The Committee hasagreed a number of actions for the coming year.
