Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 50 LEADERSHIP BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1.
Paul Venables 54 6 Non-Executive Chairman Group Finance Director 9 3 4 8 10 5 7 Appointed: 1 October 2010 and as Appointed: 2 May 2006 Chairman on 10 November 2010 Skills and experience: A Chartered 2 1 Committees: Nomination Chairman Accountant and also US-qualified, Paul Skills and experience: A post-graduate started his career at Deloitte & Touche where of Glasgow University and a Chartered he was a Senior Manager in its USA practice.
Accountant, Alans early career was with This was followed by a 13-year career at Exel Arthur Andersen and Price Waterhouse.
plc where he held a number of senior finance This was followed by senior management roles and operational roles including Deputy with Rockwell International plc, Raychem Ltd Group Finance Director and was a member and Courtaulds plc, after which he became of the Executive Board of Exel plc and Finance Director of Rugby Group plc and Chairman of their Acquisitions and Project then Smiths Group plc.
Alan is a former Review Board.
Following the acquisition of Non-Executive Director of Johnson Matthey Exel plc by Deutsche Post, Paul worked in its plc, former Chairman of Polypipe Group plc DHL Logistics division before joining Hays.
and a past President of the Institute of Paul was, until July 2015, Senior Independent Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
Principal external appointments: Chairman of Bodycote plc: Non-Executive Director of 4.
Paul Harrison 52 Alstom SA: Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman designate of Oxford Instruments plc.
Appointed: 8 May 2007 and Senior Independent Director on 9 November 2011 A strong team 2.
Alistair Cox 55 Committees: Remuneration Chairman, Chief Executive Audit and Nomination with a broad and Appointed: 1 September 2007 Skills and experience: Paul trained as a Skills and experience: A Chartered Engineer Chartered Accountant with Price complementary mix with an MBA from Stanford University, Waterhouse.
He joined The Sage Group plc Alistairs early career was in various field as Financial Controller in 1997 and was of skills and engineering, management and research Group Finance Director from 2000 to 2013. science roles with British Aerospace and then In September 2013, Paul joined WANdisco experience Schlumberger.
Following his MBA, Alistair plc as Chief Financial Officer.
worked for McKinsey & Company before Principal external appointments: Paul is joining Blue Circle Industries, where he was also a Non-Executive Director of Ascential plc.
the Group Strategy Director and then the Regional Director for Asia.
Prior to joining Hays, Alistair was Chief Executive of Xansa Executive Board member plc.
Alistair was, until November 2015, a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of 3i Group plc.
Non-Executive Director OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 51 8.
Victoria Jarman 44 Board diversity Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director 1.
Appointed: 1 October 2011 Appointed: 1 January 2012 Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination Committees: Audit, Nomination and and Remuneration Remuneration Skills and experience: An engineering Skills and experience: A post-graduate graduate of the University of Leicester and of Oxford University with a diploma in a Chartered Accountant, Victoria started her corporate finance from the London Business 2. career with KPMG before moving to Lazard School, Pippa started her career with Bain & Corporate Finance, where she was Chief Company.
She subsequently became Chief Operating Officer of Lazards London and Financial Officer of Courtauld Textiles plc Middle East operations and a member of its and then Chief Executive Officer of FT European Management Committee.
Victoria Knowledge, the corporate training division 1.
Male 67% was, until July 2016, a Non-Executive of Pearson plc.
Female 33% Director of fide La Rue plc.
directorships have been with Ladbrokes plc, Principal external appointments: Victoria Hilton International plc and Arcadia plc.
is a Non-Executive Director of Equiniti Group Principal external appointments: Pippa is Board tenure plc where she is the Chairman of the Audit presently the Chief Operating Officer of the Committee and a member of the Risk Co-op Group and Chairman of AlixPartners 1.
Committee, and a non-executive adviser UK Turnaround and Restructuring.
to Knight Franks group executive board.
Torsten Kreindl 53 Independent Non-Executive Director 2.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 24 February 2015 Appointed: 1 June 2013 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration Skills and experience: Peter has a Law 3.
Skills and experience: A graduate from degree from Cambridge University and is Johannes Kepler University in Linz, Austria a Chartered Accountant.
0-3 years 22% with a PhD in industrial engineering and Group Finance Director of Daily Mail & 2.
Torsten has held senior General Trust plc, a role he performed for 3.
5 years 45% executive positions for Booz Allen Hamilton 19 years, making him one of the longest and Deutsche Telekom AG and was, until April serving CFOs in the FTSE.
2016, a member of the Swisscom AG board.
Principal external appointments: Since 2011 Board experience Principal external appointments: He is a Peter has been a Non-Executive Director of partner in Grazia Equity, a Munich-based Perform Group, a leading digital sports media 1. capital firm.
company: he is also a Trustee of the Royal 4.
Academy and a member of the Industrial Advisory Board of GVQ Asset Management, 7.
MT Rainey 60 a UK equity management company.
Doug Evans 53 Committees: Audit, Nomination and 3.
Company Secretary and General Counsel Remuneration Appointed: 4 February 2013 Skills and experience: An experienced Skills and experience: A law graduate from media and marketing professional, MT Rhodes University who began his career with Rainey has worked extensively in the UK Webber Wentzel in South Africa, specialising and the US.
Finance 22% in corporate and commercial law before agency Rainey Kelly Campbell Roalfe, which 2.
Engineering and technology 45% moving in-house.
Doug has previously held she grew to a top 20 agency before it was 3.
Media and marketing 22% the posts of Company Secretary & Corporate sold to Y&R, a subsidiary of WPP plc, and 4.
Operations 11% Legal Director at Exel plc and Group General where MT was CEO then Chair until 2005.
In Counsel at Royal Mail Limited.
Prior to joining addition she was Chair of the leading digital Hays, Doug was an Executive Director, strategy agency Th nk Ltd from 2008-2015.
Board composition Company Secretary & General Counsel Previous non-executive directorships held by 1.
MT include WH Smith plc and STV Group plc.
MT has Masters degrees from Aston University and Glasgow University.
Principal external appointments: MT is a 3.
Non-Executive Director of Pinewood Group plc and Channel 4 Television.
Executive 22% Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 52 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED The role of the Hays plc Board The terms and conditions of appointment The Hays Board The Board is collectively responsible to the of non-executive directors, including the Composition of the Board Companys shareholders for the long-term expected time commitment, are available The Board is currently made up of two success of the Company.
It sets the Companys for inspection at the Companys registered executive directors and seven non-executive strategic objectives and determines the risk office, and a pro forma letter of appointment directors, including the Chairman.
Their appetite and control framework within which is also available on the Companys website.
biographies, including prior experience, those objectives are achieved.
The Board are set out on pages 50 and 51. provides effective oversight of the Company During the year, the Board considered the and its businesses within a robust governance independence of each of the non-executive Board changes during the year structure that helps achieve the long-term directors, save for the Chairman who was Richard Smelt retired from the Board at success of the Company and deliver deemed independent by the Board at the the conclusion of our 2015 Annual General sustainable shareholder value.
In doing so, it Meeting AGM : MT Rainey was appointed concluded that each non-executive director to the Board in December 2015.
The Board also provides leadership of the remained independent of management Company and direction for management, and free from any relationship that could Election and re-election of directors at the ensuring that the necessary resources interfere with the exercise of their 2016 AGM are in place for the Company to meet independent judgment.
In making the In accordance with the Companys Articles its objectives and it keeps under review assessment, the Board recognised that of Association and the principles of the Code, managements performance in regard 15 November 2016 will represent nine years all Directors of the Company will offer to achieving those objectives.
since Paul Harrison was first elected by themselves for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Having received advice from shareholders: notwithstanding the length of the Nomination Committee, the Board is Our aim is to be the worlds pre-eminent his tenure, the Board believe Paul Harrison satisfied that each director is qualified for specialist recruitment business.
In pursuit of continues to demonstrate independence of election or re-election by virtue of their skills, that aim, our employees across the globe work thought and judgment and as such the Board experience and commitment to the Board.
towards achieving our Strategic Priorities, set will continue to deem him independent for out on page 20.
The Board closely monitors the purposes of the Code.
All of Hays Operational governance management and its delivery of a sustainable directors are expected to act in the best The Management Board and profitable business, ensuring it continues interests of the Company.
Responsibility for the day-to-day to operate within the appropriate risk-reward management of our business and operations culture.
The Board has established a core set Chairman and Chief Executive rests with the Chief Executive, who operates of values, which it adheres to and promotes The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive through the Management Board the throughout the Group.
These values, which are separate, with a clear division of principal executive committee within Hays.
underpin our skills, behaviours and way of responsibilities between them which is set out In performing this role, the Management Board doing business, are being ambitious, being in writing: the responsibility for this separation also has responsibility for monitoring detailed passionate about people, being expert at what of duties rests formally with the Board.
performance of all aspects of our business.
we do and being inquisitive about the world of work.
These values serve to engender an As Chairman, Alan Thomson presides The Management Board, which meets monthly, entrepreneurial culture within Hays, which over the Board and is responsible for its is chaired by the Chief Executive and also is critical to our continued success without leadership and overall effectiveness.
In doing comprises the Group Finance Director, the promoting excessive risk-taking.
so, he fosters and helps to maintain an effective Company Secretary & General Counsel, the working relationship between the executive Chief Marketing Officer, the Group Technology Role of the Non-Executive Directors and non-executive directors.
Director and the Managing Directors of the Hays non-executive directors have a broad Groups three main operating divisions and is and complementary mix of business skills, As Chief Executive, Alistair Cox has attended by the Group Head of People and knowledge and experience acquired across responsibility for the day-to-day Culture.
Each Management Board member sectors and geographies.
This allows them management of the Companys business has a clearly defined remit, business objectives to provide strong, independent and external and the implementation and delivery of and financial budget within which they operate.
perspectives to Board discussions, which the Board strategy.
Our organisational structure is built around complement the skills and experience of three regions globally: UK & Ireland: the executive directors.
In turn, this leads This separation of roles enhances the Continental Europe & Rest of World: and Asia to a diversity of views being aired at Board independent oversight of executive Pacific.
Regional Managing Directors operate meetings, robust and constructive debate management by the Board and more their business through regional boards, which and optimal decision-making.
At the same closely aligns the Board with shareholders.
comprise key business and functional managers time, it also reduces the likelihood of any one It also means that no one individual within with specific responsibilities within those perspective prevailing unduly.
the Company has unfettered powers of regions.
Each business is given operational decision making.
autonomy, as far as possible, within a wellA key role performed by the non-executive established internal control framework which directors is the scrutiny of executive consists of, among other things, a Group-wide management in meeting agreed objectives and set of policies and procedures, operational monitoring the reporting of performance.
They delegated authorities and policies on antialso ensure that financial controls and systems bribery and corruption, competition compliance, of risk management are both rigorous and conduct and ethics, and whistleblowing.
appropriate for the needs of the business.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 53 Senior Independent Director Key roles and responsibilities The Board appointed Paul Harrison to the position of Senior Independent Director on 9 November 2011.
In performing this role Alan Thomson Alistair Cox Paul provides shareholders with someone Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive to whom they can turn if ever they have Leadership and the effective Day-to-day management of the concerns which they cannot address through operation of the Board Groups business the normal channels, for example with the Chairing the Board and Nomination Formulating strategic business Chairman or executive directors.
Similarly, Committee objectives for Board approval and as Senior Independent Director Paul is Setting the agenda, style and tone implementing approved strategic available as an intermediary between his of Board discussions including objectives and policies fellow directors and the Chairman.
While promoting openness, debate and Managing and optimising the operational there were no requests from directors or effective individual contribution and financial performance of the business shareholders for access to the Senior Ensuring that all directors receive in conjunction with the Group Finance Independent Director during the year, clear and accurate information on Director the role serves as an important check a timely basis Fostering a good working relationship and balance in Hays governance process.
Ensuring the effectiveness of the with the Chairman In the fulfilment of his role Paul ensures he Board through induction, ongoing Chairing the Management Board and maintains a thorough understanding of the training and regular evaluations developing senior talent within the views of the Companys shareholders.
Effective communications with business for succession planning shareholders Key roles and responsibilities of these positions, and that of the Company Paul Harrison Doug Evans Secretary, are provided opposite.
Senior Independent Director Company Secretary and General Counsel Acting as a sounding board for Acting as Secretary to the Board, its Matters reserved for the Board the Chairman Committees and the Management Board A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Serving as an alternative contact and Providing legal and governance Boards decision and approval is available on intermediary for other directors and support to the Board as a whole and our website, haysplc.
These largely relate shareholders directors individually to matters of governance and business where Leading the Chairmans annual Ensuring that the Group complies with independence from executive management performance appraisal and ultimate all relevant legal, regulatory and is important, and include the following: succession governance requirements Approving financial results and other financial, corporate and governance matters: Approving Group strategy: Approving appointments to the Board: Approving and recommending dividends as appropriate and deciding dividend policy: Reviewing material litigation: Approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: Board commitment While the Company does not have a similar Approving material contracts: The Board has established a policy permitting policy for non-executive directors, their key Reviewing annually the effectiveness of its executive directors to hold only one external external commitments are reviewed each year internal control and the nature and extent non-executive directorship, subject to any to ensure that they too have sufficient time of significant risks identified by possible conflict of interest.
This ensures that commitment for the fulfilment of their Board management and associated mitigation executive directors retain sufficient time for responsibilities.
Key external commitments of strategies: and and focus on the Companys business, whilst the Board are included within their biographies Approving the annual budget.
allowing them to gain external Board exposure on pages 50 and 51. as part of their leadership development.
No changes to the schedule of matters were Executive directors are permitted to retain The Board considered the commitments made during the year.
Board decisions are any fees paid for such services.
Details of the of the Chairman and is satisfied that he has usually by consensus at Board meetings.
On annual rate of fees payable to each of the sufficient time to devote to his Board occasion, decisions may be taken by a majority executive directors for their tenure during the responsibilities with Hays.
In the case of an equality of year ended 31 March 2016 the year-end date votes, Hays Articles of Association provide the of the relevant companies are shown below: Chairman with a second or casting vote.
External Director Fee appointment Alistair Cox 80,000 3i Group plc Paul Venables 53,000 Wincanton plc Stepped down as a non-executive director on 10 November 2015.
Stepped down as a non-executive director on 16 July 2015.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 54 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Information and support Board focus during 2016 What the Board has done in the year The Board meets regularly throughout the year and agrees a forward calendar of matters that it wishes to discuss at 3.
Implementing governance and ethics Percentage of time spent by the Board each meeting.
Standing items, including and monitoring risk operational, functional and financial reviews Performed the annual review of the 1. and Committee updates are considered effectiveness of internal control and at each scheduled Board meeting, with the nature and extent of risks identified 4. unplanned items such as commercial or together with mitigation plans property-related decisions being considered Reviewed regular reports on legal and as and when required.
The Chairman, in compliance matters from the Company conjunction with the Chief Executive and Secretary Company Secretary, plans the agenda Received formal training updates for each Board meeting and ensures that 2. on corporate reporting, legal and supporting papers are clear, accurate, timely regulatory matters and of sufficient quality to enable the Board 3.
Reviewed Board and Committee to discharge its duties.
effectiveness Reviewed and approved minor changes All Board directors have access to the 1.
Developing a successful strategy 30% to the terms of reference of the Board Company Secretary, who advises them on 2.
Ensuring appropriate financial management 30% Committees Board and governance matters.
Implementing governance and ethics and Reviewed the Directors Conflicts monitoring risk 25% the support of the Company Secretary, there of Interest procedures 4.
Stakeholder engagement 15% is a procedure in place for any director to Reviewed the Companys compliance take independent professional advice at the with the Code Companys expense in the furtherance of Received updates and reviewed their duties, where considered necessary.
procedures in connection with the 1.
Developing a successful strategy implementation of the Market Abuse Attended a Group strategy day, with Our culture Regulation members of the Management Board and Hays is a people business and people are at other senior executives, to consider key the core of what we do.
Stakeholder engagement strategic priorities and challenges faced a meritocratic and entrepreneurial culture, Considered the results from TALKback, across the business which is reflected in our four brand values of: the Groups employee engagement Approved the Group strategy and Expert survey reviewed associated performance Ambitious Considered and approved invitations Visited operations in Australia, Japan Passionate about People: and under the Companys all-employee and the UK, receiving presentations Inquisitive share plans from senior management on business Received regular updates on views performance, the state of the market, To support this culture we maintain an open and feedback from investors strategy, succession planning and style of communication, which is designed Considered the Companys investor opportunities to both identify issues early, and also to relations strategy Reviewed strategy plans and received recognise potential opportunities, so that in Considered and reviewed the leadership reports on the operational performance both cases appropriate action can be taken and development strategy for the Groups regions in terms of reducing any negative impact on Reviewed the Groups succession plans Received reports on technology the business whilst ensuring opportunities and assessed risks and options and innovation and related industry are exploited.
developments Reviewed Group risk These characteristics and brand values are core to our Group culture and are supported 2.
Ensuring appropriate financial via the following mediums and underpinned management by the Hays Group Policies and Procedures: Received and considered regular reports Corporate communications on the Groups financial performance Global intranet Approved financial announcements for Hiring, induction, training and promotion publication criteria Approved the annual budget Approved dividend policy, payments and recommendations as appropriate, including consideration of a special dividend Reviewed and approved the Groups refinancing of its new revolving credit facility Met with the Companys financial adviser and corporate brokers Considered ad hoc property and finance-related transactions OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 55 Board attendance The Board met a total of seven times during the year.
In addition, the Board attended an annual Strategy Review meeting with the Management Board being present.
Six Board meetings were held in the UK and one in Sydney, Australia.
Board and Committee attendance for scheduled meetings during the year are shown below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board and Committee attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Alan Thomson 7 of 7 4 of 4 Alistair Cox 7 of 7 1 Paul Venables 6 of 7 Paul Harrison 7 of 7 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 Victoria Jarman 7 of 7 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 Torsten Kreindl 7 of 7 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 2 MT Rainey 3 of 3 2 of 2 1 of 1 2 of 2 3 Richard Smelt 3 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 2 2 of 2 4 Pippa Wicks 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 4 4 of 4 Peter Williams 7 of 7 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 1 Unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
3 Retired from the Board on 11 November 2015.
Unable to attend one Board and Nomination Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
4 Unable to attend two Nomination Committee meetings due to prior commitments.
Director and membership includes judgment on the part of directors and Risk management and internal control representation across the global network executive management.
Internal controls are The Board has overall responsibility for the and comprises operational, IT and finance designed to manage rather than eliminate Groups internal control systems and for functions.
Meetings are held three times a the risk of failure to achieve business reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been year, with activities and recommendations objectives, and can provide only reasonable designed to assist the Board in making reported to the Management Board.
The and not absolute assurance against material better, more risk-informed, strategic Hays plc Board also has oversight of the misstatement or loss.
decisions with a view to creating and Committee and its activities.
In practice, In accordance with its regulatory obligations, the Board delegates the task of implementing The Board reviews the Group strategy the Board, with the assistance of the Audit its policy on risk and control to management.
and approves a budget for the organisation Committee, carried out an annual assessment Further support and assistance is provided each year, to ensure that the performance of the effectiveness of the Groups risk by an independent Internal Audit function, of the business is in line with the plan and management and internal control system details of which are provided in the Audit financial and operating reporting procedures during the reporting period.
Comprehensive annual budgets course of its review, the Board did not and forecasts are approved by the identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses The Management Board oversees an Management Board and business divisions.
that it determined to be significant and enterprise risk management system which Monthly progress and variances are reported it therefore concluded that they are allows for a holistic, top-down and bottomup view of key risks facing the business.
to the Management Board and subsequently operating effectively.
These are recorded in a Group risk register, to the Board at each meeting as part of the which is reviewed at least annually by the control process.
Conflicts of interest Management Board and submitted to the Procedures are in place for the disclosure Board thereafter to enable it to carry out Complementing these financial controls is by directors of any interest that conflicts, its risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise a set of Group-wide policies and procedures or possibly may conflict, with the Companys involves a current and forward look at addressing non-quantifiable risks.
These interests and for the appropriate authorisation various risks affecting the business and include the Groups Code of Conduct and to be sought if a conflict arises, in accordance prioritising them according to risk magnitude Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, with the Companys Articles of Association.
Risks covered include and whistleblowing arrangements.
The In deciding whether to authorise a conflict operational, business and compliance risks Board regularly receives management and or potential conflict of interest only those as well as financial risks.
Each risk is assigned Committee reports which also form part of directors that have no interest in the matter an owner with current and future risk the internal control system.
under consideration will be able to take the mitigation procedures detailed, with the relevant decision: in taking such a decision continuing monitoring of these undertaken The Groups internal control procedures are the directors must act in a way they consider, on an ongoing basis.
The principal risks subject to regular review and provide an in good faith, will be most likely to promote currently facing the business are detailed ongoing process for identifying, evaluating the success of the Company and may impose in the Strategic Report.
This is in such limits or conditions as they think fit.
The accordance with the Guidance on Risk Board has reviewed the procedures in place The Group Risk Committee assists the Management and Internal Control and and considers that they continue to operate Management Board in providing strategic Related Financial and Business Reporting effectively.
There were no actual or potential leadership, direction, reporting and oversight September 2014.
The Board recognises conflicts of interest which were required to of the Groups risk framework.
The that such a system has its limitations in that be authorised by the Board during the year Committee is chaired by the Group Finance risk management requires independent under review or to the date of this report.
