4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:21 Page 76 Section 9: Audit Committee Report The following pages set out the Committees report on its activities n reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
In August 2015, policies: and I replaced Mr J Hallam as chair of the Audit Committee who, after n ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal ten years of service to the Company, will retire from the Board in control systems.
The Audit Committee has been in operation throughout the year and operates within clearly defined terms of The external auditor and the third party valuation expert are invited reference which are available to view in the Investor Relations to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which the Annual section of the Companys website.
It met four times in the year to Report and Interim Report are considered and at which they have 31 March 2016.
It comprises all the Directors except for Mr G the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without Picken and, as of 1 August 2015 and 1 March 2016, Mr J Hallam representatives of the Investment Adviser being present.
The Audit and Mr I Russell, respectively.
Committee has direct access to the external auditor and to key senior staff of the Investment Adviser and it reports its findings and The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate include reviewing the Annual Report and Interim Report, the responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
valuation of the Groups investment portfolio, the system of internal controls, and the terms of appointment of the external auditor Significant Issues Considered together with their remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through After discussions with both the Investment Adviser and the external which the external auditor reports to the Board of Directors and auditor, the Audit Committee determined that the key risks of meets at least twice yearly.
The objectivity of the external auditor is material misstatement of the Groups financial statements related reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms to the valuation of investments, in particular the key forecast under which the external auditor is appointed to perform non-audit assumptions and valuation discount rates.
services and the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
Valuation of Investments We have reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness As outlined in Note 12 to the financial statements the total carrying of the Companys independent auditor and recommended to the value of financial assets at fair value at 31 March 2016 was Board that KPMG Channel Islands Limited be reappointed in 1,932.9m.
Market quotations are not available for these financial respect of the coming financial year.
assets such that their valuation is undertaken using a discounted cash flow methodology.
This requires a series of material I or another member of the Audit Committee will continue to be judgements to be made as further explained in Note 3 and Note 4 available at each AGM to respond to any questions from to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee discussed the valuation process and methodology with the Investment Adviser in July 2015 and November 2015 as part of the review of the Interim Report and again in February 2016 and May 2016 as part of the review of the Annual Report.
The Investment Adviser carries out a valuation semiSarah Evans annually and provides a detailed valuation report to the Company.
Audit Committee Chairman The Audit Committee also receives a report and opinion on the half-year and year-end valuation from a third party valuation expert.
17 May 2016 The Audit Committee met with the external auditor at the time at which the Audit Committee reviewed and agreed the auditors Group audit plan in February 2016 and also at the conclusion of the The main duties of the Audit Committee are: audit of the financial statements in May 2016 and in particular discussed the audit approach to the valuation.
n giving full consideration and recommending to the Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual financial Valuation of Investments key forecast assumptions statements and reviewing the external auditors report thereon: The Audit Committee considered in detail those economic n reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence assumptions that are subject to judgement and that have a material and objectivity of the external auditor: impact on the valuation.
The key assumptions are considered to be n reviewing the valuation of the Groups investments prepared by future inflation rates, deposit interest rates and tax rates.
These the Investment Adviser, receiving an independent review of the assumptions are set out and explained in Section 2.5 Valuation of valuation from a third party expert and making a recommendation the Portfolio and Note 4 of the financial statements.
to the Board on the valuation of the Groups investments: n reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Advisers report, in audit, audit related and non-audit fees payable to the external conjunction with a report and opinion on the valuation from a third auditor and the terms of their engagement: party valuation expert.
The Investment Adviser confirmed to the Audit Committee that the valuation assumptions were consistent n reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the with those used for acquisitions and the third party valuation expert following financial year, including a review of appropriateness of confirmed that the valuation assumptions were within a range of proposed materiality levels: acceptable outcomes.
76 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:21 Page 77 The Investment Adviser provided sensitivities showing the impact of Advisory and or consulting services generally only covers reviews of changing these assumptions and these have been considered by interim financial statements, tax compliance and capital raising the Audit Committee and the auditor.
The auditor considered the work.
Any non-audit services conducted by the auditor outside of judgements on these assumptions using their own expertise and these areas which are above 20,000 in aggregate in any year experience and comparisons to observable market data.
On the require the consent of the Audit Committee before being initiated.
basis of their audit work no adjustments were proposed.
The auditor may not undertake any work for the Company in respect of the following matters: preparation of the financial The Audit Committee concluded that the Investment Advisers statements: valuations used in financial statements: provision of valuation process was robust, that a consistent valuation investment advice: taking management decisions: and advocacy methodology had been applied throughout the year and that the work in adversarial situations.
key forecast assumptions applied were appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its Valuation of Investments Discount rates effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor, The discount rates used to determine the valuation are selected with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
Total fees paid and recommended by the Investment Adviser.
The discount rate is amounted to 0.7m for the year ended 31 March 2016 2015: applied to the expected future cash flows for each investments 0.7m of which 0.2m related to audit and audit related services financial forecasts which are derived using the assumptions to the Group and intermediate holding entities, 0.4m related to the explained above to arrive at a valuation discounted cash flow audit of the Groups project subsidiaries which are paid to the UK valuation.
The resulting valuation is sensitive to the discount rate associate of KPMG Channel Islands Limited and other audit selected.
The Investment Adviser is experienced and active in the related services, and 0.1m was in respect of taxation advisory and area of valuing these investments and adopts discount rates non-audit services.
reflecting their current and extensive experience of the market.
The Investment Adviser sets out the discount rate assumptions and Notwithstanding such non-audit services, the Audit Committee the sensitivity of the valuation of the investments to this discount considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the rate in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio and Note 4 of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not financial statements.
a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
In particular the Audit Committee considered in detail the two reductions of 0.2% 0.4% in total in the average discount rate To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external applied at 31 March 2016 compared with that applied respectively auditor, the Audit Committee considered: in the 30 September 2015 and 31 March 2015 valuations.
The Investment Adviser explained this was principally as a consequence n changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the current year: of increased competition in the secondary market for social and n a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements transportation infrastructure assets, which had been seen during to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and bidding and general market activity.
This was also corroborated by n the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor the third party valuation expert.
The Audit Committee challenged the Investment Adviser on their To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit material judgements and also compared this to feedback from the Committee reviewed: third party valuation expert.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the range of discount rates was appropriate for the valuation n the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and carried out by the Investment Adviser.
variations from it: n reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the The auditor explained the results of their audit and that on the basis course of the audit: of their audit work there were no adjustments proposed that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
n feedback from the Investment Adviser evaluating the performance of the audit team: and Assessment of the auditor n the Financial Reporting Councils annual report on audit The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee quality inspections.
which also reviews the terms under which the auditor may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee is satisfied with KPMGs effectiveness and reviews the scope and results of the audit, its effectiveness and the independence as auditor having considered the degree of diligence independence and objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard and professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
to any non-audit work that the auditor may undertake.
In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the auditor, the The external audit was most recently tendered for the years Audit Committee ensures that any other advisory and or consulting commencing after 31 March 2015.
As reported in the Annual Report services provided by the auditor do not conflict with their statutory for the year ended 31 March 2015, KPMG was re-appointed as audit responsibilities.
auditor at the completion of the tender process and currently it is expected that the audit will be tendered within the next nine years.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 77 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:22 Page 78 78 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 A249 Road, UK 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:22 Page 79 Independent Auditors Report Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Directors and Advisers HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 79
