4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:19 Page 60 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement Introduction The AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate As a member of the AIC, the Company has been reporting against governance culture that meets the requirements of the UK Listing the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and the Authority as well as other relevant bodies such as the Guernsey accompanying AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Financial Services Commission the Commission and the Companies the AIC Guide.
Association of Investment Companies AIC of which the Company is a member.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
All Directors contribute to the Board discussions and explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in debates.
The Board believes in providing as much transparency for the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out investors and other stakeholders as is reasonably possible within the additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of boundaries of client and commercial confidentiality.
specific relevance to the Company.
Guernsey Regulatory Environment The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC The Commission has issued the GFSC Finance Sector Code of Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, Corporate Governance Guernsey Code.
The Guernsey Code will provide better information to shareholders.
comprises principles and guidance, and provides a formal expression of good corporate practice against which shareholders, The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC boards and the Commission can better assess the governance Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance exercised over companies in Guernseys finance sector.
Code, except as set out below.
The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale and The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing approaches the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration, to meeting the Guernsey Code.
Companies which report against and the need for an internal audit function.
the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code are also deemed to meet this code.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK The Directors have determined that the Company will continue as Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externallymanaged investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys AIFM Directive day-to-day management and administrative functions are The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive seeks to outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no regulate alternative investment fund managers AIFM and imposes executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company obligations on Managers who manage alternative investment funds has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
AIF in the EU or who market shares in such funds to EU investors.
The Company is categorised as a self-managed non EEA AIF for the The remainder of this Corporate Governance Statement addresses purposes of the AIFM Directive.
In order to maintain compliance with each of the 21 principles of the AIC Code in turn under the three the AIFM Directive, the Company needs to comply with various main areas of The Board: Board Meetings and Relationship with the organisational, operational and transparency obligations, including Manager: and Shareholder Communications.
the pre-investment disclosure information required by Article 23 of AIFM Directive.
The Chairman should be independent.
Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments The Chairman as from 1 March 2016 was Mr I Russell, who met the On 1 January 2014, certain changes to the FCA rules relating to independence criteria upon appointment and has continued to restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective meet this condition throughout his term of service.
As per the AICs investment schemes and close substitutes came into effect.
recommendations the chairman has no relationships that may create a conflict of interest with shareholders.
As previously announced, the Board confirms that it conducts the Companys affairs such that the Company would qualify for Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with approval as an investment trust if it were resident in the United guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Kingdom.
It is the Boards intention that the Company will continue Director SID, Mr F Nelson, who was appointed as SID on 1 March to conduct its affairs in such a manner and that Independent 2016.
In his role as the SID, Mr F Nelson takes the lead in the annual Financial Advisers should therefore be able to recommend its evaluation of the Chairman at which the Chairmans performance Ordinary Shares to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the and continuing independence is discussed.
FCAs rules relating to non-mainstream investment products.
