4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:20 Page 72 Section 8: Risk Committee Report I have chaired the Risk Committee which has been in operation Statement of the Chairman of the Risk Committee throughout the year, since 1 August 2015, when I took over the The Company has put a risk management framework in place chairmanship from Ian Russell.
It operates within clearly defined covering all aspects of the Groups business.
As the Company is an terms of reference which are available to view in the Investor Investment Company it outsources key services to the Investment Relations section of the Companys website.
It comprises all the Adviser and other service providers.
It therefore places reliance on Directors and it met four times in the year to 31 March 2016, these service providers own systems and controls, details of which coinciding with the quarterly Board meetings.
the Board has received and reviews annually.
The duties of the Risk Committee in discharging its responsibilities The risk management framework utilises three lines of defence, comprise defining a risk appetite for the Group and a robust being cascading approaches by which the interests of the assessment and monitoring of all matters relating to the risks to Company and its shareholders are effectively safeguarded and which the Group is exposed and their management and mitigation, protected.
The first line is the development of systems essentially in particular, in respect of risk exposure and controls, stress and the day-to-day management of risk through effective controls as scenario planning, regulatory compliance, project company documented in, e. g. the Companys and the Investment Advisers controls, tax policies and matters and the three lines of defence.
The second line is that of oversight, namely the challenge mechanism that is provided by the Risk I, or another member of the Risk Committee, will be available at Committee which reviews, challenges and monitors to ensure that the AGM to respond to any questions from shareholders policies are up-to-date and delegated authorities are respected regarding our activities.
complied with, and responds to new strategic priorities and emerging or changing risks.
The third and final defence is third party assurance which is utilised on an as-needed basis to provide an independent challenge to the risk management framework of the Company, an audit of key controls and guidance as to best practice, with the results reported to the Audit Committee.
Susie Farnon Risk Committee Chairman Under direction from the Board the identification, assessment and management of risk are integral elements of the Investment 17 May 2016 Advisers and the Operators work in both the management of the existing portfolio and in seeking new investment opportunities.
This is the so-called first line of defence, described above.
Main Duties and General Approach The Risk Committee reviews the key risks affecting the Company at The main duties of the Risk Committee are: each quarterly meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix developed and monitored in conjunction with the Investment n ensuring that the Company implements an effective risk Adviser.
This review, which forms part of the second line of defence, governance structure and control framework which envelops includes consideration of any new circumstances which could arise key risk areas with appropriate reporting: creating additional risks for the Group.
For each identified risk, a mitigation strategy is, where appropriate, developed and n considering on an annual basis and recommending for approval by implemented, together with appropriate monitoring by the the Board the Groups risk appetite, taking account of the current Investment Adviser and other key service providers as appropriate.
and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment: n reviewing, challenging and approving, at least on an annual Significant Activities in the Year basis, risk limits and tolerances, inter alia by asset type, by The Company has a risk policy principle to ensure that all significant geography sovereign risk, by counterparty exposure, for risks are identified, assessed, and their likelihood and impact interest rate exposure, for currency exposure, and for borrowing effectively mitigated within acceptable levels.
Part of the at the Group level: Companys risk management processes includes a risk appetite n confirming ongoing regulatory compliance where appropriate, statement, which is a standing agenda item at each meeting.
The e. g. FATCA: statement is designed to articulate the risks that the Company is n overseeing the Group risk profile, challenging the assessment prepared to accept to generate the targeted returns for and measurement of key risks whilst monitoring the actions shareholders, as set in the Companys Objectives see Section taken to manage them: 2.1 Approach and Objectives.
Further, it is designed to reflect the Companys investment mandate, as per the Acquisition Strategy n reviewing and recommending scenario assumptions for and Investment Policy see Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment inclusion in business planning Corporate Plan and receive the Policy, under the heading New Investment for details, the current results of stress and scenario analysis to determine whether economic and business environment in which the Group operates, proposed mitigation is sufficient to manage the business risk the Companys strategic objectives see Section 2.2 Strategy and profile within the Boards appetite: Investment Policy and business plans: and investors expectations.
n making recommendations to the Board having taken advice from the Investment Adviser, on material changes to investment The Committee considered and noted compliance with the and strategy, treasury policy and operational risk policy.
Approved Delegation Parameters ADPs, which are a component of the Companys risk management processes.
The ADPs, which 72 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:20 Page 73 necessarily operate within the limits of the Investment Policy, are necessary.
This was initiated to ensure a minimum appropriate designated thresholds pre-agreed with the Risk Committee and standard level of controls across the Groups portfolio of approved by the Board which retains ultimate responsibility for Risk investments.
This work stream is now substantially complete and Management from time to time, in view of the Companys risk the Committee has received a final report.
In accordance with appetite, within which the Investment Adviser may make specific, Companys third line of defence, the Committee may consider unilateral investment and asset management decisions.
They engaging a third party to carry out some assurance work to test this provide the Board with comfort on the delegation of the investment control environment further in due course.
management functions as they are designed to optimise risk and return by empowering the Investment Adviser for the more The Committee also discussed the risk of cyber-attacks at its conventional investment operations of the Group, whilst reserving meetings.
Comfort was taken that the Companys key service Board approval for other matters exceeding the ADP limits.
providers had appropriate IT systems and policies in place.
It was noted that the Investment Adviser had confirmed that its IT An ongoing programme of various potential stress scenarios for the systems, particularly its firewalls, had been subject to annual Company, and the related analyses, was presented to the penetration testing by a specialist third party.
Committee during the year by the Investment Adviser.
This programme was also refreshed and enhanced.
As stated by the risk The focus of the cyber-threat analysis covered the project appetite statement, the principal aim is to ensure that, in the relevant companies in which the Group invests and whether any of the stress scenario, the Company retains the ability to generate sufficient buildings such as schools and hospitals had building management cash flow to cover targeted dividends and grow the NAV per share.
systems BMS connected to the internet.
If these systems are connected to allow for remote monitoring and resetting, these In particular, during the year, the Committee received analysis and systems are at risk of attack.
At the request of the Committee, the considered the hypothetical implications of: Investment Adviser retained the services of a specialist third party to perform independent assurance work to determine if these BMS n the voluntary termination of one of the Groups projects: systems were at risk, and to make recommendations for a management framework to mitigate such risks.
n a change to Gilt rates: n increased project costs arising for higher lifecycle expenditure, As a consequence of these work streams, a Group cyber-threat insurance premiums or management costs: policy was developed in the year and is in the process of being n the insolvency of any one of the facilities management contractors: passed to all project companies for adoption.
n the insolvency of a construction contractor relevant for those investments under construction : The Company has received notification from the Financial Conduct n the impact of a bank, which holds funds on deposit for a Authority in the UK and from the Central Bank of Ireland, that it was number of project companies, becoming insolvent: registered as a self-managed non-EEA Alternative Investment Fund AIF, and would be able to market into the UK and the Republic of n the impact of increased frictional cost should a number of Ireland, respectively, for new issues of shares.
The Company has projects have to deal with whole unavailability triggered by also successfully applied for a marketing licence for Sweden, so events like fire-stopping that the industry has seen in the UK that it is now able to market itself in that territory.
during the year: n the impact of adverse foreign exchange movements: and The Committee considers, at each meeting, various regulatory n the Groups current tax environment, including the compliance reports from the Investment Adviser and from the recommendations from the OECDs base erosion and profit Administrator.
No significant action points or notable comments shifting project BEPS, and how jurisdictions in which the Group arose in respect of these regular reviews.
has an interest will now implement these recommendations.
The Committee is committed to the continued development of The Committee, recognising the impact the BEPS project could stress scenario testing and the use of other risk management tools have on the Groups future cash flows, agreed that the Investment to supplement its current practices and the adoption of best Adviser should engage, on behalf of the Company, in the practice.
Further assurance work will also be considered as and consultation exercise undertaken by the OECD and the UK when it is appropriate to do so.
Government and update the Committee on the progress of implementing the BEPS initiatives.
As part of this continued development the Committee engaged specialists in risk management and reporting from a risk At each meeting, the Investment Adviser provided the Committee management specialist to advise the Committee on whether its with a project and risk review.
The content included, inter alia, an working practices and the information it received was appropriate for analysis of counterparty exposure and portfolio concentration, a the size, complexity and type of investments the Group was making.
summary of pertinent fund matters and the Companys financial risk management policies and status, together with commentary on The risk management specialist reported to the Committee that it was specific project issues warranting discussion with the Board.
supportive of the framework in place and work done to date.
It noted however that perhaps there was too much detail so that the key risks During the year the Investment Adviser provided the Committee and mitigants were not as prominent as they should be, and made a with progress updates on how it was assessing the control number of sensible recommendations.
The Committee has a plan to environments maintained by project companies and helping those effect these with the Investment Adviser during the course of 2016. companies to develop their controls where it was considered HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 73 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:21 Page 74 74 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:21 Page 75 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 75 Helicopter Training Facility, UK Section 9: Audit Committee Report
