Governance Report 59 Nomination Committee Report Bill Whiteley Chairman, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee composition The Committee will consider candidates on merit and against During the year the Committee comprised myself as the Groups objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on Chairman, the Non-executive Directors Clive Snowdon resigned the Board, including gender, taking care that appointees have enough 17 May 2016, Jock Lennox, Annette Kelleher, and Mark Reckitt time available to devote to the position.
appointed 1 June 2016, and the Group Chief Executive, Derek Muir.
All Non-executive Directors, as well as the Chairman and the Group The Committee met twice in the financial period under review with all Finance Director, were selected through externally facilitated eligible members of the Committee being present on each occasion.
All Non-executive Directors are independent, as is the Chairman succession Chairman on appointment although not counted as such under the During the year I indicated my intention to stand down as Chairman Code following appointment.
The Board believes this has created of the Company at the next AGM in May 2017.
The Company an effective group of Executive and Non-executive Directors able to immediately engaged Korn Ferry to compile a shortlist of potential provide the required range of skills, knowledge and experience see candidates along with an internal candidate that had expressed an page 54 to ensure development of the Group, implementation of interest in the position.
Annette Kelleher was delegated by the Board its strategy and sound governance.
The Committee will continue to to commence a process of selection.
On completion of this process, monitor any need to make any further changes to the composition of Annette Kelleher recommended to the Nomination Committee, that the Board, in the context of the Companys strategy.
Jock Lennox, the Companys current Senior Independent Director be Following an initial three-year term, the terms of Non-executive appointed Chairman of the Company on my retirement.
Following a Directors are reviewed annually, in line with their annual retirement at meeting of the Nomination Committee, this recommendation was the AGM.
The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors forwarded to the Board, who approved the appointment of Jock are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and the Lennox to Chairman, as from the conclusion of the Companys AGM AGM.
The Company has commenced a search, via Korn Ferry for a new Non-executive Senior Independent Director.
Length of service at Date of appointment 31 December 2016 Other principal activities During the year, and the period up to the date of this report, the Bill Whiteley 1 January 2010 7 years Committee also considered: Jock Lennox 12 May 2009 7 years 7 months Board succession and diversity - recognising the desire to Annette Kelleher 1 December 2014 2 years 1 month maintain the right balance of expertise both at Executive Director and Non-executive Director level, the Committee Mark Reckitt 1 June 2016 7 months discussed and planned for any other forthcoming changes over the next two years.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment set out the time commitments normally required.
Such time commitments can involve Non-Executive appointments and changes in roles and peaks of activity at particular times and all Directors are expected to responsibilities on the Board.
be flexible in managing these.
Any significant changes to their other Board evaluation - a summary of the process and key matters commitments are notified to the Board before they arise.
The Board arising from the 2015 and 2016 Board evaluation, led by the remains satisfied as to the time availability and commitment of the Chairman and internally facilitated by the Company Secretary, is Non-executive Directors.
More information on the Nomination Committees terms of reference The appointment of Mark Reckitt as a Non-executive Director can be found on the Companys website.
see page 55 and subsequently as Chairman of the Audit On behalf of the Board Committee.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist the Board in the key areas of Board composition, performance, succession planning and Bill Whiteley recruitment.
Having the appropriate range of high calibre Directors on Chairman, Nomination Committee our Board is key to determining and achieving the Groups strategic objectives and ensuring that success is sustained over the long-term.
