Corporate governance continued Governance report Reasons for the decision Explanations under the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is focused on the commercial success of Hikma and believes that continuing the combined position of Chairman and Chief Executive is the best way to achieve Governance principles this objective for Hikma because: The Board is committed to the standards of corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code Chairmans role: The Chairman position is highly visible the UKCode adopted in September 2014 and the inside and outside Hikma, acting as an ambassador Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services Authority.
The with business partners and adviser to the divisions.
report on pages 62 to 135 describes how the Board has It is essential the Chairman intimately understands applied the Main Principles of the UK Code and Markets MENA culture and has strong relationships in the Law throughout the year ended 31 December 2016. region, can speak Arabic and has extensive The UK Code is available at www.
Business partners: A significant number of the The Board considers that this Annual Report provides the Companys key political and commercial relationships information shareholders need to evaluate how we have across the MENA region are built on the long-term trust complied with our current obligations under the UK Code and respect for the Darwazah family where the role of and Markets Law.
The Board acknowledges that Said Darwazah holding Continuity of success: Said Darwazah has been a the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive and the driving force behind the operational success of the continuation of Independent Non-Executive Directors business since 2007 and the Board believes that it is who have served more than nine years require explanation important to the continued success of the Group under the UK Code.
Hikma is committed to an open that he remains in the lead executive role.
Questions may be directed to and further information may be requested Succession: The Board considers that the heritage and from the Company Secretary.
Otherwise, throughout the management relationships across the Group add extra year and up until the date of this report, Hikma was in challenge to appointing an external Chief Executive, full compliance with the UK Code.
whilst ensuring shareholder value is maximised.
The Chief Executive continues to develop the executives below him with a view to handing responsibilities Chairman and Chief Executive position over in the medium term.
The Board is aware that Said Darwazahs position as Chairman and Chief Executive is a departure from the Control enhancements UK Code.
The Board consulted shareholders in early 2014 and fully re-considered the position during the year.
The The Board has implemented the following enhancements following disclosure summarises the Boards rationale.
The to controls: Independent Non-Executive Directors meet twice a year Governance structure review: The Independent to review the Board structure including consideration Directors meet at least bi-annually in a private of whether the combined role should continue.
The session chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Independent Non-Executive Directors have concluded This meeting includes consideration of the that the position remains appropriate.
appropriateness of the governance structure and safeguards for shareholders.
Committee Chair roles: The Chairs of the Board Committees, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, undertake a significant amount of work in the oversight of the functions that report to their Committees and have in-depth relationships with the relevant executives.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 76 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Transparency and engagement: Hikma has always had The Board reviewed and considered the independence the highest regard for external shareholders.
Many of of the Non-Executive Directors during the year as part the original investors from before listing still invest and of the annual corporate governance review.
It recognises support Hikma today.
Over 12years since flotation, that Michael Ashton and Dr Ronald Goode have served the Company has maintained the highest standards in excess of nine years and therefore this constitutes a of shareholder engagement, which is reflective of departure from the UK Code.
Michael Ashton will retire the importance placed in maintaining strong investor from the Board in May 2017 and Dr Ronald Goode relations and governance.
Hikma has won and will stand down in May 2018.
Dr Ronald Goode will be been shortlisted for several transparency and handing over the Chair of the Compliance, Responsibility governance awards.
and Ethics Committee to John Castellani at the 2017 AGM.
Expanded Senior Independent role: The Board The Board wishes to retain the services of Dr Ronald Goode has increased the responsibilities of the Senior and Michael Ashton for a time period sufficient to transfer Independent Director to assume joint responsibility, their responsibilities and knowledge in an orderly manner with the Chairman and Chief Executive, for setting the whilst ensuring continuity and ongoing challenge.
The Board agenda, agreeing action points and the minutes Board considers this to be appropriate as Hikma is a of the meetings.
maturing company in which historical knowledge and personal relationships are important to the successful Independence oversight of the business.
The Board considers Robert Pickering, Michael Ashton, The Board is of the view that Michael Ashton and Dr Ronald Goode, Pat Butler, Dr Pamela Kirby, John Dr Ronald Goode remain independent because: Castellani and Nina Henderson to be independent.
These Their character and the manner in which they perform individuals provide extensive experience of international their role clearly demonstrate independent thought pharmaceutical, financial, corporate governance and and judgement.
regulatory matters and were not associated with They continue to ask difficult and challenging questions Hikma prior to the listing of Hikma in 2005. of management and request additional information when required.
None of the Independent Directors receives additional Tenure range remuneration apart from Directors fees, and they do not participate in the Groups share plans or pension schemes.
There are no conflicts of interest between any Independent Non-Executive Directors and management or significant shareholders.
The Board does not view Ali Al-Husry as an Independent Director due to the length of his association with the Company, being an executive with Hikma prior to listing and his involvement with Darhold Limited, Hikmas largest shareholder.
However, he continues to bring to the Board broad corporate financial experience and a detailed knowledge of the MENA region, which is an important and specialist part of the Groups business.
Independent NED The Board does not view Dr Jochen Gann as an Tenure range No.
Percentage Independent Director as his appointment was part of 03 years 4 57% the shareholder agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim, 46 years 1 14% a major shareholder and his primary employer.
However, Jochen brings significant M&A and corporate finance 79 years 0 0% experience, with a particular focus on the 9 years 2 29% pharmaceutical sector.
