Risk and control continued Risk management Internal control During 2016, the Group focused on embedding the The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework.
of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk Hikma operates in diverse and dynamic markets which management.
The Board confirms that it is in accordance are subject to great levels of uncertainty and the ERM with the Code and follows the FRCs Guidance on Risk framework is an integral part of our business as it Management, Internal Control and Related Financial provides for a pragmatic and consistent approach to and Business Reporting.
The system for identifying, identifying, calibrating and reporting on risks throughout evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces draws the organisation: gauging changes in the Groups risk on the ongoing output of the finance department on profile: and balancing risk-taking with mitigation Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and control.
and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board monitors In addition to providing consistent approaches to the ongoing effectiveness of the system and formally measurement, the ERM framework specifies the reviews the Groups policies on internal control on an designated senior executiveresponsible for detailed annual basis, including all material controls.
The Board is oversight and management of each of the principal risks satisfied that the Groups systems for internal control have in the business and guides them on the approach they been in place throughout the year under review and up to should take to monitor, mitigate and control each type the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
All senior executiveshave the significant daily The systems of internal control are designed to manage interaction with reporting lines to members of the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Executive Committee, which is responsible for controlling business objectives and can only provide reasonable but situations that may arise, irrespective of the risk category.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board considers two key areas where control needs to be enhanced: 1 IT the Board appointed a Chief Information Officer to integrate Hikmas global IT initiatives and expanded the Groups IT resources.
The Board receives regular updates on the progress of this enhancement.
2 Compliance the Board initiated a programme to enhance the ABC activities in the US operations and instructed an external assessor to assess the enhancements in early 2017.
The Board is satisfied that the enhancements are on track to be fully implemented and tested.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 58 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Key internal audit events The key elements of our internal control framework are as follows: A documented and disseminated An established process for reviewing the reporting structure with clear policies, financial performance and providing MAY procedures, authorisation limits, support to our joint ventures and segregation of duties and associates together with direct support The Audit Committee Chair delegated authorities from the Hikma finance function meets EY to review the internal audit Written policies and procedures Annual budgets, updated forecasts and findings to date, the management for material functional areas with long-term business plans for the Group responses and the action plan.
specific responsibility allocated that identify risks and opportunities and to individual managers that are reviewed and approved by the Board A comprehensive system of internal financial reporting that includes regular A defined process for controlling capital comparison of results against budget expenditure which is detailed in the and forecast and a review of KPIs, each governance framework informed by management commentary JUL EY report their initial findings to the Audit Committee.
The Authority to invest Committee meets with EY $ Million without management present.
50m Board of Directors 20-50m Executive Committee OCT Investment Committee The Audit Committee Chair has a further meeting with EY to review the full-year audit findings, Regional Regional Regional 10-20m investment investment investment review the results of the risk assessment that is undertaken in conjunction with management and consider the internal M&A Corporate Development Department audit plan for the following year.
Project Team: Project Team: Project Team: MENA and 1m US Europe emerging markets DEC EY report their full-year findings for the year, a forward-looking risk assessment and a plan for the following year to the Committee.
The Committee meets with EY without management present.
