Governance Report 50 Governance Report Statement of compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code The Groups subsidiary companies hold monthly board meetings The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial and these are often attended by the Executive Directors and there Reporting Council in September 2014 applies to the Group and the is regular liaison across divisions to ensure, where appropriate, Board confirms that for the period ended 31 December 2016 it the consistent application of governance, operational procedures complied fully with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance and Group policies and practices.
The two Executive Directors are Code 2014 the Code.
This report outlines how we have complied accountable to the Board for the operational application of these with the five main principles of the Code: leadership, effectiveness, controls.
accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
A The Board is collectively responsible for ensuring that the business new UK Corporate Governance Code was published in June 2016 acts in the best interests of its shareholders and ensures that the for accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016 and the Group delivers sustainable profitable growth through the supply Company will report against this code in its 2017 Annual Report.
of infrastructure products and galvanizing services: generating A.
Leadership sustainable value for shareholders, whilst preserving the interests of Details of the Groups business model and strategy can be found on its customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The main facets of pages 8 to 13. this responsibility comprise: consideration of the long-term direction and strategy of the Company, the values and standards within the Leadership framework business, subsidiary company management performance, resources, The Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Group consists of the Company and health and safety, risk management and internal controls.
the principal subsidiary companies, listed on pages 154 to 156, and during 2016 operated in eight different countries.
The Groups Board structure businesses are directly supervised by local operating boards and During 2016 the Board constituted the individuals listed below and monitored at divisional level.
these Directors made up three Board committees as described below.
Each Committee reports to the Board.
The two Executive Directors of the Board review divisional and individual operating company performance and regularly liaise with selected senior executives and subsidiary company directors.
W H Whiteley - Chairman D W Muir - Group Chief Executive M Pegler - Group Finance Director J F Lennox - Non-executive Director appt Senior Independent Director 17 May 2016 C J Snowdon - Non-executive and Senior Independent Director resigned 17 May 2016 A M Kelleher - Non-executive Director M J Reckitt - Non-executive Director appt 1 June 2016 C A Henderson - Company Secretary Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Audit Committee has responsibility The Remuneration Committee is responsible The Nomination Committee has responsibility for planning and reviewing the Companys for creation, approval and implementation of for assisting the Board with succession interim and preliminary reports and accounts, the Companys Remuneration Policy in respect planning and with the selection of a new its internal controls and risk management of Executive Directors, Company Secretary Executive, Non-executive Director or assurance.
Chairman Chairman Chairman M J Reckitt A M Kelleher appt 17 May 2016 W H Whiteley appt Chairman 17 November 2016 Other members Other members Other members J F Lennox J F Lennox C J Snowdon resigned 17 May 2016 M J Reckitt appt 1 June 2016 D W Muir A M Kelleher C J Snowdon resigned 17 May 2016 C J Snowdon resigned 17 May 2016 J F Lennox resigned as Committee Chairman A M Kelleher 17 November 2016 M J Reckitt appt 1 June 2016 Secretary Secretary Secretary C A Henderson C A Henderson C A Henderson www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 51 The Code provides that for those companies in the FTSE 350 at Chairman and Chief Executive least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and independent Non-executive Directors.
The Company entered the FTSE the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and available at 350 in June 2016 and confirms its adherence to the Code for FTSE www.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership 350 businesses in that half of the Board consists of independent and effective working of the Board.
The small size of the Board Non-executive Directors.
ensures all Directors contribute fully to the discussions and decisions.
The Chairman drives the Board agenda and determines how the Directors terms and conditions Board should use the time available to it during Board meetings.
The The service agreements and letters of appointment for the Executive Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Company, Directors and Non-executive Directors respectively, are detailed on executing the Groups strategy and development, meeting financial pages 73 and 75 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
objectives, implementing policies and maintaining controls.
The Executive Directors provide information to the Board via their regular Board meeting attendance written reports and the presentation of proposals for Board approval.
During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Board support The Board is supported by the Company Secretary who, under Board Audit Nomination Remuneration the direction of the Chairman, ensures that communication and information flows between Board members.
The Company Secretary Bill Whiteley 9 4 2 5 is also responsible for assisting the Chairman in all matters relating to corporate governance, including the Board evaluation process.
1 Derek Muir 9 4 2 3 Directors are able to take independent professional advice, when 1 necessary, at the Companys expense.
Mark Pegler 9 4 - 1 From time to time, other members of the management team attend Jock Lennox 9 4 2 5 Board meetings to present annual budgets, updates and proposals 2 Clive Snowdon 4 1 1 1 relating to their areas of responsibility and reporting on regulatory compliance, risk management and internal controls.
Annette Kelleher 9 4 2 5 The Directors and management of the Group businesses are also 2 Mark Reckitt 5 3 1 4 supported by the central function which includes compliance, risk management, treasury, taxation, acquisitions and corporate Total meetings 9 4 2 5 development.
indicates attendance of whole or part of the meeting by invitation.
Conflicts 1 The Companies Act 2006 sets out Directors general duties The Executive Directors are not present when elements of their remuneration are being discussed.
concerning conflicts of interest and related matters.
The Board has 2 Both C J Snowdon and M J Reckitt attended all meetings that they were eligible to attend.
agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing with conflicts of interest and has added responsibility for authorising conflicts All Directors of the Board except M J Reckitt attended the AGM on of interest under the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
17 May 2016: M J Reckitt was not appointed to the Board until 1 June The Board confirmed that it was not aware of any situations that 2016.
All Directors of the Board except C J Snowdon attended the conflicted with the interests of the Company, other than those that strategy meetings held in June and November as he had resigned on may arise from Directors other appointments, as disclosed in their 17 May 2016. biographies on pages 48 and 49.
The Non-executive Directors meet independently without the In accordance with the Articles, the Board authorised the Company Chairman present and also meet with the Chairman, independent of Secretary to receive notifications of conflicts of interest on behalf of management.
the Board and to make recommendations as to whether the relevant The Chief Executive maintains a programme of visits to the Groups matters should be authorised by the Board.
The Company has subsidiary businesses, throughout the world.
The Group Finance complied with these procedures.
Director, regularly visits the US and France and in 2016 also visited Thailand, India and Australia.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 52 Governance Report continued B.
Effectiveness The schedule of matters reserved for the Board: How the Board operates Acquisition integration plans: The Board manages the overall control of the Groups affairs with reference to a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for Anti-bribery & Corruption compliance: decision, including the review and approval of key policies.
Modern Slavery: In particular, the Board makes decisions on, reviews and approves: Consideration of the EU Market Abuse Regulations: Group strategy and operating plans: Diversity and equal opportunities policy: Business development, including acquisitions and divestments, Dividend policy: major investments and disposals: Goodwill and Intangible Asset carrying values: Risk management: Pension schemes merger: Financial reporting and audit, including announcements for year end and interim results and trading updates: Pension scheme master trust arrangements: Financing, treasury and taxation: Amended and extended the Groups banking facilities for a further two years: Corporate governance: Viability Statement: and Compliance with laws, regulations and the Companys Code of Business Conduct CBC : Corporate activity including the acquisitions of FMK Trafikprodukter AB, Hardstaff Barriers Limited, Technocover Corporate sustainability and responsibility, ethics, health and Limited, Signature Limited, and E. T. Techtonics, Inc. safety, the environment: and The Board also received budget presentations from the management Pension benefits and liabilities.
of Bergen Pipe Supports USA, Carpenter & Paterson, the V&S Group, In addition to its normal business, which is included in the table Hill & Smith Ltd and Joseph Ash Ltd, as well as visiting the France above, the Board received, reviewed and approved various matters, Galva site at Saint-Floretin, France for a two-day budget and strategy during 2016 and up to the date of this report: discussion.
Regular updates on the rationalisation of the non-US Pipe These budget presentations are initially challenged by the Executive Supports business: Directors before being presented to the Board which approves the businesses individual budgets, having reviewed and discussed the Presentations on specific strategic plans from the management plans submitted.
Where appropriate the Board offers additional of ATA Sweden, Hill & Smith India, The Birtley Group and Hill & challenge in order that the final budgets are a realistic representation Smith Australia: of the expected financial performance of the businesses taking onto account historical performance and future economic conditions.
E. T. Techtonics fabricated bridge at the 243-acre Pescadero Marsh Natural Preserve in California, USA.
The area is a habitat for a wide range of birds and endangered wildlife and offers many hiking trails.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 53 The Board has established processes designed to help maximise its performance.
These processes operate from the following framework: Operation of Board meetings are scheduled to ensure adequate time for discussion of each agenda item.
the Board Board discussions are held allowing for questions, scrutiny and constructive challenge where appropriate.
Full debate allows decisions to be taken by consensus although any dissenting views would be minuted accordingly.
Other members of senior group management regularly attend and give presentations at Board meetings.
Local managers may also attend when matters of particular significance or country relevance are proposed or are being reviewed.
Strategic The development of strategy is led by the Chief Executive Officer together with the Group Finance Director, and with focus input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing from the Non-executive Directors.
Group strategy is regularly addressed by the Board, with strategic matters being reviewed and updated as appropriate at each main meeting.
In addition, the Board holds at least one annual strategy meeting.
The Board has particular responsibility for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed.
The Executive Directors and members of the senior management team draw on the collective experience of the Board.
Board Comprehensive reporting packs are provided to the Board, which are designed to be clear, accurate and analytical, whilst information avoiding excessive and unnecessary information.
Reporting packs are normally distributed electronically five working days in advance of Board meetings, enabling them to be as up-to-date as possible, whilst allowing sufficient time for their review and consideration in advance of the meeting.
Clarification or amplification of reports or proposals are sought in advance of, or at, meetings as appropriate.
Management accounts with commentary are distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Board The Board regularly reviews its appetite for, and the management of, risk in the context of the strategy and the periodic knowledge review of the Group risk register.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director have a programme of visits to the Groups business locations to review the operational performance and to engage and support local management.
In the financial year, at least one Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Board meeting is held at the operational site of a subsidiary.
All Directors have open access to the Groups key advisors, senior management and the Company Secretary.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 54 Governance Report continued Skills and competencies Evaluation of the performance of the Board The Directors are experienced and influential individuals from varied The Board recognises that a performance evaluation is important commercial industries, professional backgrounds and international to optimise Board effectiveness and that the evaluation should be involvement.
Their diverse and balanced mix of skills and business appropriate to both the size of the Board and the Company.
The 2015 experience, as shown below, are key elements to the effective and 2016 evaluation process was done internally and facilitated functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring matters are using a bespoke online questionnaire.
The Board will consider an fully and effectively debated and challenged and no individual or externally facilitated evaluation for 2017 or 2018. group dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
The 2015 evaluation process concluded that the Board and its Committees remain effective in fulfilling their responsibilities International Mergers & Marketing appropriately and that each Director continues to demonstrate a markets Acquisitions Culture & 5 valuable contribution.
Areas identified as requiring more Board time 6 6 Ethics in 2016 were: 6 Monitoring the development of managerial capability at subsidiary business level: A review of the Boards approach to the Groups geographical Leadership Supply diversification guidelines: 6 chain Digital 1 Human 4 The Groups 20172019 strategic plan: and Resources 5 A continual review of the balance of skills and expertise present on the Board.
Health & Safety The Board have responded to these matters by: 6 Risk Business Receiving presentations from subsidiary management teams.
management integration Most notably ATA Sweden, The Birtley Group, Carpenter & and assurance 6 6 Paterson, V&S and France Galva: Giving consideration to the economic and political landscape Operating that had changed throughout 2016 and the general performance & Financial opportunities that there might be for further acquisitions in delivery Planning appropriate markets: 6 Strategy 6 5 Meeting with many subsidiary businesses to discuss their three-year strategic plans, including a site visit at France Galva, Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board has Saint-Florentin: determined that during the year under review none of the Being cognisant of upcoming Board changes and ensuring that Non-executive Directors had any relationship or circumstance recent appointees have the right balance of skills and expertise which would affect their performance and the Board considers all to ensure a strong Board.
of the Non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
The 2016 evaluation, conducted via an internal questionnaire, focused on the following factors: The biographies of the Directors of the Board are shown on pages 48 and 49, along with any significant other commitments and Leadership strategy, performance and talent: appointments they may have.
Board composition: Training and advice All Directors are provided with the opportunity and are encouraged Board dynamics and behaviour: to attend regular training to ensure they are kept up-to-date on Board processes, including shareholder communications: and relevant legal developments or changes, best practice and changes to commercial and financial risks.
Typical training experience for Board skills and experience.
Directors includes attendance at seminars, forums, conferences The evaluation was facilitated by the Company Secretary, under the and working groups, as well as the provision of information from the direction of the Chairman.
In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for Directors to seek both independent advice and the advice The results of the evaluation will be discussed at a future Board and services of the Company Secretary.
meeting, bearing in mind the recommended Board changes taking place in 2017.
We will report on the results of this evaluation, in next years Annual Report.
Following this internal evaluation, the Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors, in the absence of the Executive Directors, to discuss the performance of the Executive Directors and the Non-executive Directors met in the absence of the Chairman to discuss his performance.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 55 Appointments to the Board Financial and business reporting Mark Reckitt was appointed as Non-executive Director on The respective responsibilities of the Directors and auditor in 1 June 2016.
Korn Ferry were engaged by the Company to conduct connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the a search for a suitable candidate and shortlisted several individuals.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 88 and the Feedback from these meetings was then given to the Chairman.
The Independent Auditors Report on pages 90 to 91.
Nomination Committee subsequently met to discuss the potential Fair, balanced and understandable appointment.
The Board had requested that an individual with The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is international strategic management experience be recruited, and fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information the Committee, in considering this requirement and the existing necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the merit business model and strategy.
More information can be found on and capabilities of the candidates and the time they were able to page 64 of the Audit Committee Report.
devote to the role in order to promote the success of the Company, recommended the appointment of Mark to the Board.
Following Going concern his appointment Mark met with the Executive Directors, the Group The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of Company Secretary and the Group Financial Controller and visited the Group and the Company and compared them to the level of major companies within the Groups UK-based Roads, Utilities and committed available borrowing facilities.
The assessment included Galvanizing businesses as part of his induction.
a review of both divisional and Group financial forecasts, financial instruments and hedging arrangements, for the 15 months from Annual re-election of Directors the Balance Sheet date.
Major assumptions have been compared In compliance with the Code and the Companys Articles of to external reference points such as infrastructure spend forecasts Association, Directors retire at every AGM and, if deemed appropriate across our chosen market sectors, Government spending plans by the Board, Directors are proposed for re-appointment by on road infrastructure, zinc and steel prices and economic growth shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
In reaching its decision to forecasts.
The forecasts show that the Group will have sufficient propose re-election, the Board acts on the advice of the Nomination headroom in the foreseeable future and the likelihood of breaching Committee, taking account of the results of the Board evaluation banking covenants in this period is considered to be remote.
Having undertaken this work, the Directors are of the opinion that the Bill Whiteley will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the Group has adequate committed resources to fund its operations for Companys AGM in May 2017 and will not be seeking re-election.
The the foreseeable future and so determine that it is appropriate for the Board approved the appointment of Jock Lennox as Chairman, from Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
the conclusion of the AGM, see the Nomination Committee Report on page 59 for more details.
Viability statement In preparing this statement of viability, the Directors have considered Following the formal evaluation of the performance of the Board in the prospects of the Group over the three year period immediately 2016, Mark Reckitt is being proposed for election and the remaining following the 2016 financial year.
This longer-term assessment Directors for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The biographies of the process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set Directors of the Board are shown on pages 48 and 49. out below, and going concern, above.
A three year period was C. Accountability determined as the most appropriate as it is the period covered by the Committees of the Board Groups annual strategic planning process, which sets the The Board has three Committees - Audit, Nomination and long-term direction of the Group and is reviewed at least annually by Remuneration.
The composition, responsibilities and activities of each the Directors.
The Board concluded that a period of longer than three of these Committees are described in separate reports.
years would not be meaningful for the purpose of concluding on longer-term viability.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all of these Committees.
The terms of reference of the Committees are available on the The strategic planning process considered metrics which enable Companys website at www.
assessment of the Groups key performance indicators see pages 28 and 29 in addition to net debt, liquidity and financing requirements.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 56 Governance Report continued In conducting the review of the Groups prospects the Directors An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the assessed the three-year plan alongside the Groups current financial significant risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness position, the Groups strategy and the principal risks facing the Group of related controls has been established by the Board to ensure an all of which are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 34. acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
This assessment considered the impact of the principal risks on the The process has been in place throughout 2016, and up to the date business model and on future performance, liquidity and solvency.
of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the key Stress tests were applied to the Groups three-year plan, whereby elements of this process are: risks associated with the economic risks faced by the Group were applied to the plan in a number of diverging scenarios.
The developed A comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key scenarios were designed to be plausible, yet severe: executives, identifying performance against budgets and forecasts: A decrease in the UK Governments road infrastructure spend: Analysis of variances, major business issues, key performance A fall in galvanizing volumes across all geographies: and indicators and regular forecasting: A reduction in revenues in the Groups Utilities businesses in the Well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital UK and USA.
expenditure and treasury operations: In making this viability statement the Directors considered the Regular meetings to identify and discuss key risks and mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group in the event that mitigations with a broad sample of the senior management the principal risks of the Company become realised.
The Directors team and the Executive Directors: also took into consideration the Groups financial position at 31 December 2016 with net cash of 15.6m, available committed Review of the corporate risk register in terms of completeness facility headroom of 105.8m and a history of strong cash and accuracy with the senior management team and the generation, and noted that the Companys principal financing Executive Directors: facilities are committed until April 2021 thus covering the period of Audit Committee discussion of the corporate risk register and review.
the risk management system with subsequent reports to the The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group and, based on Board: the procedures outlined above in addition to activities undertaken The use of a Risk Committee to monitor, validate and report on by the Board in its normal course of business, confirm that they have the Group-wide risk assessment process: and a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to The introduction of a senior management top-down approach 31 December 2019. to complement the work of the Risk Committee.
Internal control and risk management Our process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Overall responsibility for the system of internal control, reviewing risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness of related its effectiveness and ensuring that there is a process to identify, controls routinely identifies areas for improvement, but the Board evaluate and manage any significant risks that may affect the has neither identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses achievement of the Groups strategic objectives, lies with the Board.
which it has determined to be material or significant.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness More information on the Groups key risks and uncertainties is shown of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in on pages 30 to 34. accordance with the Code for the period ended 31 December 2016, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The risk management and internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The assessment and control of risk are considered by the Board to be fundamental to achieving corporate objectives.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 57 D. Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 76 explains how the Company applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
E. Relations with shareholders The Board is managing the Group ultimately on behalf of its shareholders and it undertakes this responsibility in such a way as to maximise shareholder value over the long-term and to advance the interests of all of the Groups stakeholders.
In this respect: During the year the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director regularly meet with institutional shareholder representatives, including days at Hill & Smith Limited, V&S Galvanizing and Creative Pultrusions, to discuss strategic and other issues as well as to give presentations on the Groups results.
The Board regularly receives reports from the Companys brokers and financial public relations agency on feedback from institutional shareholders following the Executive Directors presentations.
During the year the Chair of the Remuneration Committee consulted with major shareholders over changes in Executive remuneration, based on a change in roles and responsibilities and liaised with major shareholders on changes to the Companys Remuneration Policy, the results of which are reported to the Remuneration Committee.
The Companys Annual Report and Notice of AGM are published as soon as the time required for their printing allows, to provide the maximum time in advance of the AGM for feedback, which is shared with the Board of Directors.
A presentation is given to shareholders attending the Companys AGM at which shareholder participation is encouraged.
All Directors are present and questions and feedback are invited.
The Secretary engages with shareholders and the investor community as and when required.
Proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated independently by the Companys registrars, provided at the AGM and published on the website shortly after the conclusion of that meeting.
All Directors are available to meet with shareholders to discuss matters and can be contacted through the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet with shareholders concerning corporate governance issues, if so required.
Copies of all major press releases, trading updates and Interim and Annual Reports are posted on the Companys website, together with details of major contracts and projects, key financial and shareholder information, governance, statements, Group policies and corporate and organisational structure.
On behalf of the Board Bill Whiteley Chairman, Nomination Committee 8 March 2017 Varley & Gulliver installed their VGAN 300 aluminium parapet on the worlds first all aluminium bridge structure on the Arvida Bridge in Qubec, Canada.
com | Stock Code HILS 58 Joseph Ashs galvanizing on the Bond Street, Crossrail.
