Governance Report 60 Audit Committee Report Mark Reckitt Chairman, Audit Committee Dear Shareholder This Audit Committee report explains how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities, and takes into account the specific It is a pleasure to make my first report as the Audit Committee areas of: Chairman of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC.
I currently hold similar positions at Mitie Group PLC and Cranswick plc, having previously Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in held the position of Group Strategy Director at Smiths Group plc from relation to the 2016 accounts: February 2011 to April 2014 and Chief Strategy Officer at Cadbury plc Internal controls: from 2004 to 2010.
I look forward to working with the Companys senior management team as we continue to develop and enhance Risk assessment, management and mitigation: our risk management processes and internal audit programmes.
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit: and During this financial period, with the support of the Audit Whistleblowing.
Committee, the executive team has continued to build upon the risk management processes that were first implemented in 2014.
I trust you find this report helpful as an insight into the activities The new risk assessment methodology which was implemented undertaken on your behalf.
I should be delighted to answer any across the Group in 2015 was further enhanced in 2016, with all questions you might have and I look forward to seeing you at our subsidiaries having access to an online reporting tool that helps with AGM in May 2017. the production of business unit specific risk registers in a consistent format for debate by the Group Risk Committee.
The Committee comprises the Group Risk & Compliance Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Company Secretary and the Groups Director Mark Reckitt of Corporate Development.
As part of the continual improvement Chairman, Audit Committee process, senior management also provided the Risk Committee information on risks that were apparent across all subsidiaries and 8 March 2017 that might affect the Groups ability to deliver its strategic plan.
The Committee also engaged advisors to provide a third party assessment of the extent to which subsidiary businesses are mitigating the risks identified in their risk registers.
The results of this review were used to introduce an internal audit programme to assess conformance against the compliance and policy initiatives that the Group has issued, together with a more in-depth review of the approach of each company within the Group to the internal controls relevant to its risks.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 61 Roles and composition of the Committee The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies and procedures, its Annual and Interim Financial Statements before submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory requirements.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal audit function.
At different times during the year the Audit Committee consisted of Jock Lennox, Clive Snowdon, Annette Kelleher and Mark Reckitt: 1 January 2016 - 17 November 2016: 17 November 2016 - 31 December 2016: Jock Lennox Chairman Mark Reckitt Chairman Clive Snowdon resigned 17 May 2016 Jock Lennox Annette Kelleher Annette Kelleher Mark Reckitt appointed 1 June 2016 Mark Reckitt, having held the position of Group Strategy Director at Smiths Group plc from February 2011 to April 2014 and Chief Strategy Officer at Cadbury plc from 2004 to 2010 as well as being the current Audit Committee Chairman at Mitie Group PLC and Cranswick plc, has been specifically identified as the Committee member having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website.
Meetings The Committee meets according to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar and during 2016 met on four occasions: in March to consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements together with the external audit findings, in August to review the interim results report, in September to approve the external auditors plan and approve their fees and in December to review the internal audit activities and reports and approve the internal audit plan for the year ahead.
Reports on the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, including updates on the risk management process, were reviewed at each of the meetings.
Attendees at each of the meetings are the Committees members as well as, by invitation, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Risk & Compliance Counsel and the external auditor, KPMG.
A record of the meeting attendance by Committee members is set out on page 51.
Each meeting allows time for the Committee to speak with the external auditors without the presence of the Executive management.
When Audit Committee Chairman, Jock Lennox maintained regular contact with the external audit partner outside of Committee meetings and without the management of the business present and since his appointment, Mark Reckitt has continued this process.
In these meetings a wide range of matters are discussed, including the change in financial reporting and governance landscape, the Companys readiness to accommodate these developments, the external auditors approach to auditing activities, especially outside the UK, and the robustness of our assurance approach generally.
Responsibilities To ensure governance and control over the Groups financial reporting and risk management processes with assurance provided by internal activities and external auditors.
During the year and to the date of this report the Committee considered the following items: Financial Statements and Reports Risk Management Internal Audit External Audit and non-Audit Work Reviewed the 2016 Annual Report, Reviewed the outputs from Assessed the adequacy Considered, along with the external the 2016 Interim Report and other the Groups risk management of the internal control auditor, the significant risks to trading updates issued during the process to ensure that environment and the audit and their approach year.
subsidiaries were identifying, the processes in to these risks risk of fraud in evaluation and mitigating risks place to monitor this, revenue recognition: fraud risk from Reviewed the effectiveness of the and considered changes to including reviewing the management override of controls: Groups risk management and encourage both bottom-up and performance of the valuation of goodwill: and internal controls and disclosures top-down risk assessments.
made in the 2016 Annual Report.
Reviewed proposals to enhance Evaluated the plan of Reviewed, considered and agreed the Advised the Board on whether it the Groups whistleblowing work that had been methodology of the 2016 audit work is appropriate to adopt the going policy and process which will identified through to be undertaken by the external concern basis of accounting in include an external reporting the risk management auditor.
preparing the Groups Financial facility for employees.
Oversaw the relationship with the Reviewed the Groups proposed external auditors, reviewing their Advised the Board on whether approach to compliance with performance and advising the the Annual Report and Financial the requirements of the Modern Board on their appointment and Statements, taken as a whole, are Slavery Act.
fair, balanced and understandable see page 64.
Advised the Board on whether, Evaluated the independence and given an assessment of the objectivity of the external auditor.
Reviewed areas of the accounts Companys current position and requiring judgement including the Reviewed the level and nature of principal risks, the Board can carrying value of goodwill and non-audit services provided by the approve its viability statement, indefinite life assets: the defined external auditor.
see pages 55 and 56. benefit pension scheme valuation: Reviewed and approved updates to and taxation see page 62. the non-audit services policy.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 62 Audit Committee Report continued Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 accounts In order to discharge its responsibility to consider accounting and financial reporting integrity, the Committee carefully considers key judgements applied in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements which are set out on pages 92 to 136.
The Committees review included consideration of the following key accounting judgements: Valuation of goodwill and indefinite life assets The value of goodwill and indefinite life assets amounts to 131.8m at 31 December 2016.
The review of such assets is based on a calculation of value in use, using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and strategic plans prepared by senior management and approved by the Board of Directors.
The uncertain economic conditions around the world increase the risk of impairment and the Committee addresses this by receiving reports from management outlining the basis for the assumptions used for cash generating units.
The Committee also considers and challenges managements assessment of the sensitivities to these assumptions and the impact that those sensitivities may have, and also considers the disclosures made in respect of sensitivities, in particular in respect of France Galva SA, in note 10 to the Financial Statements on page 109 to 117. Business plans are signed off by the Board and assessment models are reviewed as part of the audit, for which the external auditor, KPMG, provides reporting to the Committee.
The calculation of value in use for the goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets relating to the Groups acquisition of CA Traffic Limited in 2006 indicated that the value in use was not sufficient to support the carrying values of those assets.
Performance in 2016 and in particular during the second half of the year was below expectations and, overall, the business continues to generate levels of profitability that are below those anticipated at acquisition.
Following a reassessment of the future profitability and cash flows for the business, a goodwill impairment charge of 4.1m has been recognised in the year.
Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Net defined benefit pension obligations under IAS19 amount to 27.3m at 31 December 2016.
The Committee reviews benchmarks and assumptions that are provided by the Groups actuaries and used to value the pension liabilities for the Groups defined benefit schemes.
The underlying assumptions based on market conditions and the characteristics of the schemes are reviewed by management and the external auditors and reported on to the Committee.
Taxation Assessment of judgements made in relation to uncertain tax positions, regarding the outcome of negotiations with and enquiries from HM Revenue & Customs and other tax authorities in other jurisdictions.
Judgements have been made by management following discussion with the Groups tax advisors and internal review.
The Committee has reviewed the analysis behind these judgements and confirms its agreement that the Groups tax provisions are adequate.
Internal audit The internal audit activity is the responsibility of the Group Finance function, who are responsible for preparing the annual audit plan for approval by the Audit Committee.
Once approved, the Group Finance function progresses the plan and reports back to the Audit Committee on the outcomes of the individual audits carried out.
The Audit Committee, considers on an annual basis whether this arrangement is appropriate for the Company, and in December 2016 concluded that they had confidence in the effectiveness of the way Internal Audit activity is currently organised, but would keep the matter under review.
Internal controls The Committee continued to review a more risk-based approach to the internal control environment and expanded its coverage of the Groups subsidiaries.
As part of the plan to focus on the most appropriate areas, the Group Financial Controller and Group Risk & Compliance Counsel met with external risk specialists, to determine how to enhance this risk-based approach to internal audit.
This review looked at all areas of the business from Board governance to subsidiaries day-to-day business activities.
This included Board policies, contract and project management, procurement and supply chain management, sales and credit management, compliance and financial reporting.
Subsidiary businesses are annually required to self-assess their compliance with Group-wide policies and these assessments were validated by a combination of external auditor and internal auditor activity, thus giving the Committee a balanced overview across the Group, taking into account the level of risk and previous coverage.
At meetings throughout the year, progress against the annual internal audit plan was reviewed and additional areas of concern as determined by the external review were added to the plan as required.
Any changes to the approved audit plan were agreed by the Committee.
The Committee received an update from the Group Financial Controller and the Group Risk & Compliance Counsel each meeting summarising the findings of the internal audits undertaken and the progress made against actions agreed from previous audits as well as progress made in the assessment and management of risk both at Group and subsidiary level.
Detailed updates on specific areas were provided at the request of the Committee and for the period covered by this report the following were considered: Treasury control and processes: IT infrastructure and resources update: Brexit: Modern slavery: Appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets of CA Traffic Limited and France Galva, SA: www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 63 The announcement of the proposed restructuring of the non-US The external audit team in terms of the requisite skills, Pipe Supports business and its subsequent treatment in the professional and industry knowledge: Groups financial reporting: and The scope of the external audit to adequately address the Third-party whistleblowing hotlines.
financial reporting risks facing the Company and its key operations: For 2017 the Committee is considering an enhanced and expanded internal audit plan that aligns with the Groups identification of risks The approach taken in assessing the adequacy of management and mitigating controls, and also assesses conformance against the representations: and compliance and policy initiatives that the Group has issued.
Communication and interface with internal audit activities and Risk management the Audit Committee on matters affecting critical accounting The risk management process is reviewed throughout the year by policies and treatment, governance and risk management.
the Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk The Committee debated this feedback and concluded that KPMG management across the Group.
During the year, and following the had continued to deliver an effective external audit of the Groups publication, in September 2014, by the Financial Reporting Council financial controls, performance reporting and risk identification and FRC of their Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and management.
related Financial Business Reporting the Committee and the Board focused their attention on the Groups principal risks and the risk The external auditor prepared a detailed report of their findings management process and approved a model for consideration of in respect of the 2016 audit.
The Committee discussed the issues principal risks that includes the implementation of a Group-wide risk raised in the report, particularly in relation to the areas highlighted, assessment process across all subsidiaries.
at their meeting in March 2017.
A similar discussion of the external auditors report, following their informal review, is undertaken by the This online risk assessment and management process will be further Committee at the half year.
As part of this review the Committee rolled out during 2017, with the Committee particularly focused questions and challenges the work undertaken, the findings and the on risk assessment and mitigation within the subsidiaries.
The Risk key assumptions made, with particular attention to the areas of audit Committee will provide an effective filter ensuring that appropriate risk identified.
subsidiary risk matters are escalated to the Board and Audit Committee, and that key Group risks are mandated for assessment Auditor independence and rotation and mitigation at subsidiary level.
The Committee believes that these The external auditor confirmed its policies on ensuring auditor improvements will further strengthen the way that the business independence and provided the Committee with a report on their understands and manages risk.
own audit and quality procedures.
This report was reviewed during the period under review and the Committee remained satisfied of the During 2016, the Committee has monitored the key risks on the auditors independence and with the rotation of the external audit corporate risk register and during the year received its first reports personnel, which complied with the professional guidelines.
from the newly formed Risk Committee, together with high-level reports from the subsidiaries.
The Risk Committee has monitored, To maintain auditor independence the Group has a policy whereby, validated and provided a detailed report to the Audit Committee before any former employee of the external auditor may be on the Group-wide risk assessment process and the movements employed by the Group, careful consideration is given to whether the in major risks and provided updates on risk mitigation activity independence of the auditor will be adversely affected and approval undertaken in relation to those risks.
A summary of the principal risks of the Audit Committee is required.
and uncertainties to which the business is exposed, can be found on KPMG have been the Groups auditors since 1999, having been pages 32 to 34. appointed following a competitive tender process.
The external Assessment of effectiveness of external audit auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every five years.
Such There are a number of areas that the Committee considers in relation changes are carefully planned to ensure business continuity without to the external auditor: performance in discharging the audit and undue risk or inefficiency.
The partner responsible for the Group audit interim review of the financial statements: independence and completed his fifth year in the year ending 31 December 2015 and a objectivity: and reappointment and remuneration.
new partner, Darren Turner, recommended by KPMG and approved by the Audit Committee in September 2015, took over for the External auditor performance 31 December 2016 year-end audit.
The external auditor, KPMG, provided the Committee with their plan for undertaking the 2016 year-end audit during the Committee Following the EU Audit Directive taking effect from June 2016, meeting in September 2016.
This highlighted the proposed approach the Group has therefore adopted a policy that no external auditor and scope of the audit and identified the key issues in detail, being appointed after June 2016 can remain in post for longer than the risk of fraud in revenue recognition: fraud risk from management twenty years and there will be a tendering process every ten years, override of controls: valuation of goodwill and indefinite life assets: and that KPMG, as the currently appointed external auditor, may and post-retirement benefits obligations.
The Committee debated, remain so until the completion of the 2023 annual audit.
However and appropriately challenged, the basis for these areas before the Committee will continue to consider annually the need to tender agreeing the proposed approach and scope of the external audit.
the audit for audit quality or independence reasons and may seek to tender the audit at anytime prior to the next partner rotation in During the year the Committee considered a report from the 2021.
There are no contractual obligations in place that restrict our Group Finance Director on the effectiveness of the performance of choice of statutory auditor.
The Committee also has a Non-Audit the external auditor.
This report included a detailed assessment Services policy that it approves annually, which restricts the use of compiled from the individual businesses and head office finance the external auditor for activities including compiling accounting team feedback and covered, amongst other things: records, certain aspects of internal audit, IT consultancy, tax services The calibre of the external auditor including size, resources, except in exceptional circumstances, and advice to the Remuneration geographical representation and reputation: Committee.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 64 Audit Committee Report continued For any non-audit services which are not excluded under the policy, The Committee considered the information laid out in the Annual the policy provides for approval, by the Group Finance Director, of Report and concluded: expenditure below 50,000, and above that figure, approval by the That the process by which the allocation of responsibility for Audit Committee Chairman.
A report is also submitted to the Audit the preparation of certain sections of the Annual Report to Committee of any non-audit services carried out by the external individuals in the head office team and their review by external auditor, irrespective of value to ensure that the aggregated spend advisors was fit for purpose: with the external auditor will not exceed 70% of the audit fee.
That the information given represented the whole story of Where the Committee believes it is cost effective for non-audit the business performance in 2016 and did not mislead the services to be provided by the external auditor, such as those relating reader by excluding appropriate bad news.
That the disclosures to merger and acquisition due diligence work, it will consider the of the Groups business segments and key messages are engagement of the external auditor, subject to application of the consistently delivered throughout the document, KPIs are clear principles of the policy, including the financial limits.
and appropriate and linked to both the Groups strategy and During 2016, there were fees of 343,100 2015: 298,000 paid remuneration incentives: to the auditor for non-audit services.
The fees paid covered due That it was a suitable document to inform both existing and diligence on acquired businesses and aborted acquisition costs prospective shareholders about the financial and non-financial 241,500 2015: 112,000, pension advice 45,200 performance of the business, with the messages delivered in the 2015: 161,000, assurance reviews 40,100 2015: 16,000 and Directors Report, including the Operating and Financial Review restructuring work 16,300 2015: nil.
Audit fees for 2016 were and the Financial Statements being balanced and consistent c. 711,000, representing a 1:2 ratio between non-audit and audit and that the report set out a detailed and fair representation of fees 2015: 1:2.
Further details of these amounts are included in the Groups activities and performance and that certain matters note 6 of the accounts.
have been identified and discussed between management, the Whistleblowing Audit Committee and KPMG in order to correctly disclose the The Group has a written policy which states that if any employee in performance, controls and prospects of the Group: and the Group has reasonable grounds to believe that the Groups Code of That the document allowed shareholders to follow the whole Business Conduct is being breached by any person or group of people, story of the Groups financial and non-financial performance they are able to contact the Group Risk & Compliance Counsel with in 2016 giving them a clear and understandable picture of the full details, or if necessary, the Company Secretary or the Chairman Groups business model, key drivers and commercial operations.
Following the review, the Committee confirmed that the Annual During the year the Committee received reports from the Group Report was fair, balanced and understandable and reported to the Risk & Compliance Counsel on matters reported under the Groups Board accordingly.
The incidents were reported through the whistleblowing helpline and related to individual employment terms Summary or working relationships with other employees and were resolved We aim to continue to develop responsibilities for financial reporting by local management.
The Committee also, at its meeting in and the related governance and assurance and we will continue December 2016 approved the engagement of a third-party to provide to make improvements to our risk management processes and whistleblowing services to the Group and this new process will be approach to our internal control environment.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee examined the 2016 Annual Report and was Mark Reckitt specifically tasked by the Board to advise it on whether the 2016 Chairman, Audit Committee Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Prior to recommending to the Board that they were able to sign the Annual Report and Accounts the Committee reviewed a report received 8 March 2017 from the management responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report detailing how the report had been compiled.
Images A strategic partnership between Asset International, Technocover and Lionweld Kennedy Flooring provided prefabricated solutions for Yorkshire Water for their 2m water treatment plant beside the A1 at Catterick, which supplies clean drinking water to 30,000 residents in the area.
