Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2016 37 Group Audit and Risk Committee report membership chairs introduction The Group Audit and Risk Committee is comprised of the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Ian Durant, whom the Board considers has both recent and relevant financial experience.
Ian Durant is a Chartered Accountant and a former Finance Director of Liberty International renamed Intu Properties and other companies.
Further biographical details of Ian Durant are shown in the Board of Directors profiles on page 30. meetings The Group Audit and Risk Committee has a key role to play in The committee met five times during the year and attendance at those supporting the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to meetings is shown on page 34 within the corporate governance section.
At financial reporting, assessing risk management and internal controls the invitation of the committee chair, the Board Chairman, Chief Executive and ensuring high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external and Finance Director attended all committee meetings.
The Group head of audit process.
This report summarises the committees activities in internal audit and the external auditors also attended all meetings of the these areas.
committee at the invitation of the committee chair except for an additional The changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and meeting in January 2016 that considered external auditor rotation.
After the related FRC guidance highlight the importance of effective risk each of the other four meetings the committee met with the external management and internal control systems.
This year we have made auditors and the Group head of internal audit, in each case without the good progress in designing and implementing revised risk management presence of executive directors or management.
Effective risk management systems should support better decision-making and not inhibit sensible main activities risk-taking that is essential for growth.
With that goal in mind, our risk The committee supports the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in management processes are kept under review.
relation to financial reporting, risk management and assessing internal In relation to financial reporting, I have sought to ensure that clear controls.
It oversees internal audit and the relationship with the external explanations are provided in this report on the approach we have taken auditors, including the effectiveness of the external audit and the provision in reaching conclusions on key judgements and estimates.
of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The committee has a The work of the Group Audit and Risk Committee relies on frank, structured annual programme developed from its terms of reference and open working relationships with the Board, management and internal linked to the Groups financial calendar.
The programme includes standing and external auditors and particularly between the Committee Chair items the committee considers at each meeting as well as topical items on and the Board Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
I which the committee has chosen to focus.
The committees terms of am grateful to all my colleagues for their contribution to these reference are reviewed each year and were last reviewed in April 2016.
can be found on the Groups website, homeretailgroup.
Specific issues considered by the committee included the implications for financial reporting and risk management of the sale of Homebase: the development ian durant and implementation of the risk management framework for Financial Chair Group Audit and Risk Committee Services: the Groups response to risks arising in relation to information and cyber security: development of the Groups risk management processes taking into account the changes to the Code and related FRC Guidance: proposed arrangements for the tendering of the external audit: and the goodwill implications and risks arising from the offer for the Group from J Sainsbury plc.
At each of the four regular meetings, the committee considered reports from the Group head of internal audit and reports on any material or potential litigation involving Group companies.
During the period under review, the committee also reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud including the Groups anti-bribery arrangements: reviewed arrangements by which Group employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles and other matters and reviewed the statement in the annual report on the system of internal control see page 34 within the corporate governance section.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Board asked the committee to advise it on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups business model, strategy and position and performance.
The committee reviewed the process for preparing the Annual Report and MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 37 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 38 Annual Report 2016 Group Audit and Risk Committee report continued Financial Statements and the basis for substantiating that the content inventory.
Provision is also made against inventory losses arising, for provided a fair, balanced and understandable view of the year under review.
The committee considered and concurred with managements assessment of the net realisable value of inventory because The committee reviewed the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the methodology used in calculating provisions against inventory has been has confirmed to the Board that, in the opinion of the committee, it is fair, consistently applied by management, taking into account previous balanced and understandable.
experience of impairment or inventory losses.
Financial reporting exceptional items The committee reviewed the full-year and half-year results Argos Transformation Plan announcement, the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Given the scale of the Argos Transformation Plan, the committee considered reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting considered the judgements made by management when assessing the or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
items to be reported as exceptional.
The committee agreed with To inform the Boards assessment of whether it was appropriate for the managements assessment that the exceptional items in respect of the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing financial statements at Argos Transformation Plan have been calculated and reported in the half year, the committee considered a detailed review based on the accordance with the policy set out in note 3.
These items have been Groups financial plans in relation to liquidity and solvency, taking into reported in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements and amounted consideration the Groups cash position, bank facilities and Financial to 10.3m.
Services loan book together with a range of sensitivities.
The primary areas of accounting judgements and issues considered by Financial Services customer redress the committee in relation to the FY16 financial statements and how these The committee reviewed additional customer redress charges, principally were addressed are set out below.
relating to customer redress in respect of Payment Protection Insurance PPI which was historically provided by Financial Services.
An increase to commercial income these provisions of 17.0m was charged to exceptional items in FY16 and The committee reviewed the different types of commercial income within redress payments have continued to be made to customers resulting in the the Group, and the accounting policies and estimates applied in recognising partial utilisation of this provision during FY16.
The provision continues to this income.
The committee concurred with the additional disclosure represent managements best estimate of the liability for future customer which continues to be included in the consolidated financial statements.
redress payments at the balance sheet date.
The committee agreed with This disclosure can be found in the Groups accounting policies on page 71 the judgements made and conclusions drawn by management, and and in note 21 on page 94. therefore concluded that the accounting for these provisions was appropriate.
goodwill impairment assessment The committee reviewed managements assessment of the carrying value Gain on sale of freehold property of the Groups goodwill.
In doing so the committee reviewed the The committee has reviewed the gain on sale of freehold property which judgements required to calculate the recoverable amount of goodwill.
In represents the gain following the sale of the Groups freehold located in light of the recommended offer received from J Sainsbury plc on 1 April Battersea, London.
The gain of 39.3m represents cash proceeds of 57.7m 2016, the committee concurred with managements assessment that it less net book value and costs of sale of 18.4m.
was appropriate to recognise an impairment charge of 851.7m against the carrying value of Argos goodwill.
discontinued operations In addition, in light of the sale of Homebase and the announcement The committee has reviewed the classification, presentation and disclosure that Habitat concessions in Homebase will be closed as part of this sale, the of Homebase as a discontinued operation in the financial statements.
The committee also concurred with managements assessment that it was committee has also reviewed the calculation of the loss on disposal of appropriate to recognise an impairment charge of 12.5m to fully write 18.5m and the transaction, separation and restructuring costs of 7.8m down the Habitat goodwill and brand intangible asset.
incurred as part of the transaction.
This disclosure can be found in note 14. impairment of store card receivables Store card receivables of 614m represent a significant asset on the Groups balance sheet.
The provision for impairment has been established on a portfolio basis, taking into account the level of arrears, past loss experience and defaults based on portfolio trends, and also judgements made by management to assess the appropriateness of the provision.
The committee concurred with managements assessment and judgements and agreed that the provisioning level was appropriate.
Further details of provisions against receivables are disclosed in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on page 94. inventory provisions Inventory of 755.8m represents a significant asset on the Groups balance sheet and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value takes into account slow moving, obsolete and defective MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 38 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2016 39 external audit independence One of the primary responsibilities of the Group Audit and Risk Committee External auditor independence is an essential part of the audit framework is to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process and make and the assurance it provides.
The committee reviews the independence of recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, the external auditor when considering their reappointment.
The re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
The committee took committee has established control procedures to safeguard the objectivity a number of factors into account in its assessment, including but not and independence of the external auditors and to ensure that the limited to: independence of the audit work undertaken by the external auditors is not the quality and scope of the planning of the audit.
These procedures include a policy on the provision of the external auditors presented their strategy for FY16 to the non-audit services overseen by the Finance Director in consultation with committee.
The committee reviewed and agreed with the external the committee chair: annual confirmation of independence in writing by auditors assessment of risks.
The committee also reviewed the audit the external auditors following a review of relevant areas including approach including how the external auditors planned to evolve the relationships and investment, services provided to the Group and gifts and audit to respond to changes in the business, including the hospitality: consideration of the external auditors confirmation at a Transformation Plan in Argos, and the external auditors approach to committee meeting: and half-yearly reports to the committee providing assessing materiality for the Group: details of any assignments and related fees carried out by the external the quality of reports provided to the committee and the Board and the auditors in addition to their normal work.
These control procedures are in quality of advice given: addition to the Groups anti-bribery and gifts and hospitality policies.
Audit the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and partner rotation forms part of the arrangements that support the retail sector: independence and objectivity.
the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which external auditor rotation required management judgement: and The current external auditors,  LLP, were the key messages highlighted in the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection appointed in 2006 and since that time the external audit has not been Report on  for 2014 15 and the FRCs Audit tendered formally.
As reported last year, it had been proposed to undertake Quality Inspections Annual Report for 2014 15. a tender process for the FY17 audit.
However in view of the uncertainty arising from the proposed takeover of the Group, the committee intend to In addition, a review was undertaken by the Groups internal audit consult with the Competition and Markets Authority in relation to the department of the effectiveness of the external audit for the previous external audit, to confirm whether, in the circumstances, it is allowable to financial year.
Effectiveness was assessed in relation to three areas: recommend the reappointment of  LLP as the robustness of audit: quality of audit: and quality of people and service.
Groups auditors for FY17 and to undertake a competitive tender process A questionnaire was completed by stakeholders within management for the FY18 audit should it be required in the event that the acquisition of including members of the risk committee, divisional finance directors and the Group by J Sainsbury plc does not take place.
The Company has those colleagues who were involved on a daily basis with the external complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys auditors.
Respondents were required to score the external auditors Order for the financial year under review.
performance against a range of criteria and were also given the opportunity to provide comments and explanations.
The results evidenced a positive evaluation of the work of the external auditors and that high standards had been maintained.
The committee reviewed and discussed the findings of the report with the head of internal audit and the lead audit engagement partner after taking into account all of the above factors, the committee concluded that the external auditors were effective.
Taking into consideration the audit strategy and proposed areas of work and the assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit for the previous financial year, the Group Audit and Risk Committee discussed and approved the external auditors audit fee proposal.
Further details of the audit fee can be found in note 7 on page 82.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 39 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 40 Annual Report 2016 Group Audit and Risk Committee report continued non-audit services internal audit and control The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services is that the The Group has an internal audit department and the Group head of internal external auditors may only provide such services provided these do not audit reports jointly to the chair of the committee and to the Finance conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The committee agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the services are: internal audit team at its first meeting at the start of the financial year and Further assurance services where the external auditors knowledge of at each meeting throughout the year progress against this plan was the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out reviewed.
The plan was assessed on the basis of providing appropriate such work.
This may include, but is not restricted to, shareholder and coverage over the internal control environment to provide the committee other circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection with with a balanced overview across the Group, taking into account the level of acquisitions and divestments.
Additional areas of review were added to the Taxation services where the external auditors knowledge of the plan as required where circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk Groups affairs may provide support to the Groups tax position.
Where and any changes to the agreed audit plan were reviewed by the committee.
this is not the case, the work is put out to tender.
At each meeting, except the additional January 2016 meeting, the General in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide committee considered reports from the Group head of internal audit on services, provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial the results of all internal audit reviews, significant findings and progress on limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to award management actions agreed from previous audits.
A review of the work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness of internal audit was carried out during the year by way of a effectiveness.
Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors, including the quality of reporting to the However, certain areas of work are specifically prohibited, including committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the committee work related to accounting records and financial statements that will concluded that internal audit was effective.
ultimately be subject to external audit and management of, or significant involvement in, internal audit services.
The committee chairs approval is risk management required before the Group uses any non-audit services that exceed The committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering 50,000. operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Information Owing to the exceptional circumstances that applied for the period on the Groups approach to risk management and internal control is set out under review, total non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors, in the corporate governance section.
A summary of the principal risks and  LLP, were more than the audit fee.
The major uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance can be found on proportion of these fees were incurred in connection with the significant pages 22 and 23.
The committee is overseeing the development of the amount of work required in relation to the Homebase disposal, including Groups risk management framework.
During the year, a new risk reporting responsibilities relating to the class 1 circular sent to management framework policy and risk appetite framework was approved shareholders.
Other non-audit services provided by the external auditors for Financial Services and a new risk management software system was were principally taxation services.
The external auditors were engaged to deployed in Financial Services.
This risk management software system that undertake these assignments after discussion with the committee chair provides improved real time visibility of risk information to management is because of their knowledge of the Groups affairs, their past experience in now being introduced across the Group.
delivering similar services to the Group and their cost effectiveness.
In addition, in the case of the Homebase disposal, the very limited time available to complete the necessary work precluded the undertaking of a tender process.
The fees in respect of assignments carried out by the external auditor in addition to their normal work in the period under review were: m Taxation services 0.2 Deal-related services 1.2 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 40 20 05 2016 17:59
