Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance report Board development The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which it operates and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of Directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations and to this end, Chris Havemann has commenced a programme of activity.
Board members also have the opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and external advisers.
Board evaluation The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Remuneration and Audit & Risk committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
An external Board evaluation process was completed during FY15 by Lintstock Limited.
Directors completed evaluation questionnaires and these were followed up by individual interviews with Lintstock who then compiled a formal written report summarising the Directors views and containing recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the Board further.
This report was followed up in FY16 by an evaluation questionnaire, also facilitated by Lintstock Limited, which was discussed by the Board in February 2016.
The Board concluded that it was operating effectively with the relationships between the Board members being particularly highly rated.
The atmosphere in the boardroom in terms of encouraging equal contribution, candid discussion and critical thinking was also positively rated.
It was agreed that following the successful visit to the USA in FY16, it would be beneficial to visit the other key countries and as a result, it has been agreed that the annual strategy meeting in FY17 should be held in France.
