Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2016 31 Corporate governance chairmans introduction For the period under review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with the main and supporting principles set out in the Code.
This statement, together with the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, provide a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
the role and effectiveness of the Board The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group by creating The Board is collectively responsible for the governance and long-term and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
The Board seeks to achieve success of the Group.
In this corporate governance section my aim is to this through approving the Groups strategic aims, monitoring provide insight into how the Board fulfils its responsibilities.
performance against strategic objectives and providing oversight of the This has been an unusual year for the Group, highlighting not only implementation of plans by management.
By monitoring its strategy and the role of the Board in approving the Groups strategic plans, management of risk, the Board considers the impact of decisions on wider monitoring performance and managing risk, but also its stewardship stakeholders, including employees, the pension scheme trustee, suppliers responsibilities during a period of unprecedented corporate activity.
These activities emphasise the importance of the Board and its The Board consists of the Chairman, John Coombe: Chief Executive, committees having the right balance of skills, experience, independence John Walden: Finance Director, Richard Ashton: and four non-executive and knowledge of the Group to enable them to discharge their directors: Mike Darcey the Senior Independent Director, Ian Durant, Cath respective duties.
However, there are two further elements that are also Keers and Jacqueline fide Rojas.
First, individual board members must be prepared to devote the time required of their roles to keep pace In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities with developments affecting the business, to understand how the effectively, it must comprise the right balance of skills, experience and business is performing against its strategic objectives and to assess how knowledge ideally gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
In addition, risk is being managed.
As may be expected during a period of intense directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity and the courage to corporate activity, there was a significant increase in the number of challenge constructively when appropriate.
Board meetings convened in the past year which were all well attended.
John Coombe, appointed to the Board in 2006 and as Chairman in This time commitment was not only reflected in participation in board 2012, has an in-depth understanding of the Group and its businesses and committee meetings but also in the range of informal individual and exceptional experience at both board level of listed companies in a meetings and workshops that took place with members of senior range of industries and as a former member of the UK Accounting management and their teams outside the boardroom including the Standards Board.
induction of new Group Executive Board members appointed during Mike Darcey, appointed in 2010, has worked across many industries, the year.
Secondly, the Board must foster a culture of openness, including telecommunications and entertainment, and has widechallenge and debate with senior management supported by ranging experience of media and digital technology.
constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
Ian Durant, appointed in 2011, has strong financial and accounting I am grateful to my Board colleagues and senior management for their experience combined with extensive knowledge of the retail sector and contribution and commitment to this culture.
This year we report against the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Cath Keers, appointed in 2011, has significant marketing and business Code the Code, taking into account the FRCs Guidance on Risk development experience, with particular emphasis on mobile Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business applications and e-commerce.
I support the view, as set out in the FRC Guidance, that risk Jacqueline fide Rojas, appointed in 2012, has worked extensively in the management and internal control should be incorporated within digital sector and has wide-ranging experience in software technology normal management and governance processes and not treated as a businesses.
During the year a key initiative for the Board was the design and implementation of a revised risk management The non-executive directors are determined by the Board to be system for Financial Services which reflects that principle.
Such independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which could experience is helping to inform our ongoing monitoring and affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
The enhancement of our risk management and internal control systems.
Group has in place formal procedures regarding conflicts of interest, which In line with the Code requirements, for the first time, we have are reviewed on an annual basis.
included a viability statement in the Directors Report.
In the unusual circumstances of the proximity in time of the Homebase sale and the proposed takeover of the Group by J Sainsbury plc and in the light of the significant and detailed work on working capital carried out as part of the Homebase sale, the Board concluded that, for this years report, it was appropriate that the assessment of the prospects of the Group should be for a period of two years.
John coombe Chairman MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 31 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 32 Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance continued There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The Board has a programme of scheduled meetings and telephone Chief Executive.
conferences each year and meets more frequently as required.
During the period under review, the Chairman met with the non-executive directors The Chairmans responsibilities include: without the executive directors present and arrangements are in place for providing leadership for and ensuring the effective operation of the regular informal meetings with the non-executive directors.
The Board met Board in conformity with the highest standards of corporate informally the evening before most scheduled Board meetings and governance: members of the Group Executive Board were invited to join these supporting the Chief Executive in the development of strategy: discussions on a regular basis and to provide updates on their areas of promoting and facilitating effective relationships and communications responsibility.
between non-executive and executive directors and members of senior A number of informal meetings took place during the year to provide management: non-executive directors with the opportunity to provide input on the ensuring effective communication with the Groups stakeholders, development of strategy and to monitor progress on strategic initiatives.
In including shareholders: and addition, the Board held a full-day meeting to discuss strategy, including chairing the Nomination Committee and building an effective and sessions with management teams on plans for the next phase of the Argos complementary Board, initiating change and planning succession for Transformation.
both Board and senior management appointments.
Arrangements to ensure that the non-executive directors are fully informed about the business are kept under review.
Upon appointment, The Chief Executives responsibilities include: non-executive directors undertake a full induction programme, meeting developing the strategy of the Group in conjunction with the Chairman the management team and visiting stores, distribution centres and contact and the Board and being responsible to the Board for the performance centres across the United Kingdom.
Board members continue to spend of the business, consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: time seeing the business in operation, hearing the views of colleagues from developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal controls across the business, attending management conferences and monitoring over risk in relation to all business activities: developments both in the market and with the Groups competitors.
leading the Group Executive Board and senior management team in the During the year, non-executive directors had the opportunity to participate day-to-day running of the business: in workshops with the Groups digital development teams to gain insight on ensuring that robust management succession and management digital innovation and progress on the Groups digital initiatives.
development plans are in place: and Each of the non-executive directors serves on the three main Board ensuring that financial results, business strategies and, where committees: Group Audit and Risk: Remuneration: and Nomination.
This appropriate, targets and milestones are communicated to the not only facilitates the provision of information to the Board and better investment community.
communication, but it also enables Board members to have direct involvement in the key areas of governance and to take full account of the In fulfilling his responsibilities, the Chief Executive is supported by the relationships between the activities of these committees.
members of the Group Executive Board.
Certain matters are specifically reserved for the Boards approval and are not delegated to management.
These include matters relating to the Groups strategy: approval of any major acquisition: disposals: significant capital expenditure: financial results: and overseeing the Groups systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
Board Strategic leadership Monitoring of performance against strategic objectives Monitoring management of risk group audit and risk committee remuneration committee nomination committee The committee supports the Board in carrying The committee is responsible for making The committees focus is on strengthening, out its responsibilities in relation to financial recommendations to the Board on balancing and understanding the range of skills, reporting, risk management and assessing remuneration policy for executive directors and experience and diversity of the Board and key internal controls.
It oversees internal audit and other members of the Group Executive Board roles below Board level.
It is responsible for the relationship with the external auditor, as well as the specific remuneration packages making recommendations to the Board on the including the effectiveness of the external audit for these executives.
composition of the Board and its committees, and the provision of non-audit services by the on retirements, appointments of additional and external auditor.
replacement directors and on succession planning.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 32 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2016 33 A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually and The Board continued to monitor progress on diversity and inclusion, gender the following specific responsibilities have remained unchanged this year: diversity in senior management and the work taking place to develop and The overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups maintain a diverse colleague base, including training in unconscious bias long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review of and balanced and diverse short-lists for roles.
As at February 2016, 15,998 53% of a total colleague number of Determining the nature and extent of significant risks the Board is 30,468 were women FY15: 53% and 28% of 81 senior executives were willing for the Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
If statutory directors of corporate entities whose The approval of trading statements, announcements of half-year and financial information is included in the Group financial statements are full-year results, including dividends, and the Annual Report and aggregated with senior executives, 26 29% of the total number of 89 are Financial Statements.
Two of seven members of the Board 29% are The approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders at women.
The Group will continue to support and encourage increased general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than routine diversity across all parts of its business and at every management level of documents.
More information on our approach in these areas is set The approval of all appointments to the Board and of the Company out in the corporate responsibility section of the Groups website, Secretary and ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and homeretailgroup.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Board receives regular briefings on corporate governance matters and company legislation.
Each month the Board received a management information pack that In 2016, a review of the performance of the Board and its committees provided detailed information on the performance of the Groups was externally facilitated by Independent Audit Limited using their online businesses and a report on the progress of the Argos Transformation Plan.
A questionnaire in relation to Board At each scheduled meeting the Board received an update on trading and and committee performance was provided to each Board member.
The financial performance and, in addition at five of these meetings, the Board responses to the questionnaire were reviewed and analysed by received a management report that covered the trading and operational Independent Audit and used as the basis for a report setting out findings performance of each of the Groups businesses, the Groups financial and key points for further discussion.
The report was reviewed by the performance, current market expectations of financial performance and Chairman and discussed at a Board meeting.
The overall conclusion was any significant developments.
that the Board and its committees were functioning well.
The Board discussed items where there may be scope for the Board to enhance its During the period under review, the Board has focused on: effectiveness and actions were agreed and are being addressed including The ongoing development and implementation of the Argos the further development of risk management and internal control systems Transformation Plan, including the systems, infrastructure and and focus on organisational changes and culture following the sale of management resources required to deliver the plan, together with the Homebase.
More information on the progress Individual appraisals of directors have been undertaken by the being made is set out in the Argos business review on pages 12 to 15.
Under the leadership of the senior independent director, the The development of IT infrastructure and service management to non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to appraise the complement and support the Groups strategic plans.
Chairmans performance, taking account of any views expressed by the Prior to the sale of Homebase, the development and implementation of executive directors.
In line with the requirements of the Code, all directors the Homebase Productivity Plan including improvements in store are required to submit themselves for re-election each year.
productivity, strengthening of customer propositions and acceleration of digital capabilities.
Board committees The development of Financial Services to support the Groups retail The Board has appointed the following committees: Group Audit and Risk propositions including its regulatory business plan taking into account Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
The regulatory changes and the transition of consumer credit regulatory terms of reference of each of these committees are available on the Groups responsibility to the FCA.
More information on the progress being made website at homeretailgroup.
For information on the work of the Group is set out in the Financial Services business review on pages 16 and 17.
Audit and Risk Committee see pages 37 to 40, the Remuneration The financial performance of the Group and its operating companies, Committee see pages 41 to 52 and the Nomination Committee see including financial planning, variances to forecasts and the provision of page 36.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and the appropriate financial resources to support the Groups strategic plans.
committees during the period under review is set out on the next page: The development of IT infrastructure and service management to complement and support the Groups strategic plans.
The sale of Homebase to Wesfarmers Limited, which completed on 27 February 2016.
The possible offers for the Group announced by J Sainsbury plc and Steinhoff respectively.
Other matters considered by the Board included health and safety and the development of the Groups corporate responsibility strategy.
In relation to human rights, the Group maintains and applies appropriate policies in relevant areas of its businesses including its supply chain and in relation to its employees.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 33 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 34 Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance continued BOard and cOmmittee attendance group audit Board and risk remuneration nomination Board member meetings committee committee committee John Walden 24 24 2 2 Richard Ashton 24 24 John Coombe 24 24 7 7 2 2 Mike Darcey 22 24 5 5 7 7 2 2 Ian Durant 23 24 5 5 7 7 2 2 Cath Keers 22 24 5 5 7 7 2 2 Jacqueline fide Rojas 23 24 5 5 7 7 2 2 Notes: The last scheduled meetings in respect of FY16 took place on 29 February and 1 March 2016.
John Coombe, John Walden and Richard Ashton attended every meeting of the Group Audit and Risk Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business commitments, travel schedules and the short notice at which a meeting may have had to be convened.
In each case where the directors have not been able to attend a Board meeting they have reviewed the papers distributed for that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman as appropriate.
internal control The Group Audit and Risk Committee has kept under review the The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and has internal control systems.
The systems are designed to safeguard the assets reported regularly to the Board.
As part of the process that the Group has in of the Group and help ensure the reliability of internal and external place to review the effectiveness of the risk management and internal financial reporting.
The purpose of the systems is to help manage and control systems there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate control risk rather than eliminate it.
The Board has reviewed the failings and weaknesses, and to ensure that necessary action is taken to effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
remedy any failings that may be categorised by the Board as significant.
The Board confirms there is in place an ongoing process for identifying, The key procedures which were operational in the period under review evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, including were as follows.
risks relating to environmental, social and governance matters.
This process was in place throughout the period under review and up to the date risk assessment of approval of this annual report.
This process is overseen by a risk The Board considered and reviewed the Groups strategy, including the committee which supports the Group Executive Board in managing and Argos Transformation Plan and Homebase Productivity Plan, taking controlling risk.
The risk committee is chaired by the Finance Director and into account the risks it was willing for the Group to take in achieving its comprises all the divisional finance directors, the director of Group treasury strategic objectives.
and taxation, the Company Secretary, the risk assurance manager and the New risk management software that provides improved real time head of internal audit.
The risk committee met five times in the period visibility of risk information to management has been deployed in under review.
The Board reviewed and approved a revised risk management system Current and longer-term emerging risks in relation to the Groups for Financial Services, taking into account regulatory changes and the strategy and the delivery of the strategy including any risks that could transition of consumer credit regulatory responsibility to the FCA, threaten the Groups solvency or liquidity were discussed and reviewed including processes for defining risk appetite, setting key performance by management on the basis of the likelihood and impact of these risks indicator limits and tolerances and establishing key risk indicators.
arrangements for reporting by the management of Financial Services to Following the risks identified through this process being reviewed by the Group Audit and Risk Committee and to the Board were also approved the risk committee, they were then reported to the Group Audit and and implemented.
Risk Committee, with particular focus on those risks classified as The Group Audit and Risk Committee reassessed the Groups approach principal risks by management.
The schedule of principal risks was used to risk management and internal control taking into account the FRC as the basis for the programme of internal audit and assurance and is guidance entitled Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and outlined in the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22 and 23.
Related Financial and Business Reporting including the setting of risk The Group Audit and Risk Committee has delegated responsibility from appetite and the identification and evaluation of the Groups principal risks.
the Board for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis and received its annual report on the controls over these risks.
This included risks arising from environmental, social and governance matters.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 34 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2016 35 control environment and control activities relations with shareholders The Group has established procedures for delegating authority which The Board recognises the importance of communicating with its ensure that decisions that are significant, either because of their value shareholders and does so in a number of ways, including the provision of or their impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate information in the annual report and on the Groups website, the Annual level.
General Meeting and the processes described below.
The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the Chief significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include Executive and the Finance Director, supported by management specialising internal controls, insurance and foreign currency hedging.
in investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by The Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered to.
the Chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders These include risk identification, management and reporting standards, takes place.
Meetings with investors have been held throughout the year ethical principles and practice, appropriate reward systems and with roadshow activity following the half-year and full-year results accounting policies.
Data consolidated into the Groups financial announcements.
John Coombe has held meetings with a number of statements is reconciled to the underlying financial systems.
A review shareholders during the period under review.
Cath Keers, as chair of the of the consolidated data is undertaken by management to ensure that Remuneration Committee, has also engaged with larger shareholders on the true position and results of the Group are reflected through remuneration matters.
compliance with approved accounting policies.
Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
Shareholders have a direct line of communication to the Chairman, information and communication particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, including strategy or governance.
The senior independent director is also available monthly performance reviews by the Group Executive Board.
The should shareholders have concerns which contact through the normal Group Executive Board also reviews a range of financial and channels of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director has non-financial performance indicators.
These indicators were regularly failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
All directors, including the chairs of the Group Audit and Risk, The Group has whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to Remuneration and Nomination Committees, intend to be present at the report any suspected improprieties.
Annual General Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting by members present at the Annual General Meeting will monitoring be by way of a poll.
Proxies lodged prior to the meeting showing the balance A range of procedures was used to monitor the effective application of for and against each resolution and the number of votes withheld will be internal controls in the Group, including management assurance displayed at the meeting.
The results of voting at the Annual General through confirmation of compliance with standards, and independent Meeting will also be available on the Groups website at assurance through internal audit reviews and review by specialist third homeretailgroup.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to the Group Audit and Risk Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, with a particular focus on those areas identified as being the greatest risk to the Group.
Follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate response to changes and developments in risks and the control environment.
