Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Directors Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Directors 44 | HomeServe plc Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors 1 3 4 1 2 3 4 JM Barry Gibson 64 Richard Harpin 51 Mark Morris 56 Appointed to the Board in April 2004 and Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Appointed to the Board in February 2009 appointed as Chairman on 1 April 2010 HomeServe which was set up in 1993 as and as Senior Independent Director on 1 following a year as Senior Non-Executive a joint venture with South Staffordshire April 2015.
Previously in audit, business Director.
Appointed to the Board in May advisory and corporate finance with Price Director at BAA plc, Group Chief Executive 2001.
Also founder and Non-Executive Waterhouse before joining Sytner Group of Littlewoods plc and Non-Executive Director of Growth Partner LLP, investing plc as Finance Director, later becoming Director of Somerfield plc, National in and helping small consumer Managing Director.
Currently Chairman of Express plc, William Hill plc, SSP Group businesses to step change their Motorpoint Ltd and Niche Finance Group Ltd, bwin.
party digital entertainment plc growth.
Previously a Non-Executive Director of and Non-Executive Chairman of Harding with Procter & Gamble, followed by LSL Property Services plc.
Brothers Holdings Ltd. management consultancy with Deloitte and his own company.
1 3 4 Martin Bennett 47 Johnathan Ford 46 Stella David 53 Appointed to the Board in November Appointed as Chief Executive Officer Appointed as Chief Financial Officer in 2010.
Previously Chief Executive Officer of of the UK business in January 2014, September 2012.
Also a Non-Executive William Grant & Sons following more than following two years as Group Chief Director of Lakehouse plc where he fifteen years with Bacardi Ltd where she Operating Officer and three years as chairs the Audit Committee.
Previously undertook a number of roles culminating Group Chief Financial Officer.
Previously Group Finance Director of NWF Group in four years as Global Chief Marketing Finance Director of the UK business, plc.
Prior to joining NWF in March 2009, having been Finance Director of the he spent four years at HomeServe, firstly Officer.
Currently a Non-Executive Director Warranties business and Commercial as Group Commercial Director and later of C&J Clark Limited, she also spent seven Director.
Prior to joining HomeServe in as Finance Director of the Emergency years as a Non-Executive Director at 2003, he spent three years as Group Services Division.
Before joining Nationwide Building Society.
Finance Director of Clarity Group and HomeServe he was Head of Corporate ten years at Arthur Andersen where he Finance at Kidde plc.
1 2 1 2 3 4 5 Chris Havemann 48 Ben Mingay 51 Guillaume Huser 49 Appointed to the Board in December Appointed to the Board in January 2012.
Appointed as Chief Executive Officer, 2015.
He has followed a largely Managing Partner of Smith Square HomeServe France in April 2015. entrepreneurial career.
He took Research Partners, an independent corporate Previously at Affinion Group where he Now onto AIM in 2005 and oversaw its finance advisory firm.
He has more undertook a number of roles culminating takeover by a US business becoming CEO than twenty five years experience as in four years as President of Affinion of the combined group, a global leader in a corporate finance adviser.
Prior to Groups International Division.
Before online research data collection.
He was co-founding Smith Square Partners, joining Affinion in December 2002, he subsequently CEO of online marketplace, he was a Managing Director of spent thirteen years at American Express Rated People.
He is also a Non-Executive Hawkpoint Partners Ltd and Credit firstly in finance, sales and business Director of RM222 Ltd, parent company Suisse First Boston Europe.
He is also development roles and later in the of Reality Mine Ltd and a governor of a Non-Executive Director of AIM-listed Corporate Services Division where he was London Business School.
VP Commercial Card, Western Europe.
5 5 H Stephen Phillips 49 Tom Rusin 47 Anna Maughan 46 Appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Appointed as Chief Executive Officer, Appointed Company Secretary in July Reparalia in March 2010 having joined HomeServe USA in July 2011.
Previously 2008 following twelve years as Assistant HomeServe in 2005 as Country Manager at Affinion Group where he undertook Company Secretary.
Also a Trustee of, in Spain.
He is a licensed insurance a number of roles culminating in three and Secretary to, the industry wide Water broker and is a Non-Executive Director of years as President and Chief Executive Companies Pension Scheme.
Prior to joining Officer of Affinion Groups North HomeServe, he spent 12 years in senior American Division from 2007 to 2010.
Key: business development, sales, and Before joining Affinion, he owned 1 Non-Executive marketing roles in Diversified Business Just for Travel Inc.
He was previously 2 Audit & Risk Committee Chairman: Mark Morris Communications S. A. and E. J. Krause a Non-Executive Director of The 3 Nomination Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson 4 fide Mxico, working across the US and Ambassadors Group.
Remuneration Committee Chairman: Stella David 5 Latin America.
Member of Executive Committee only HomeServe plc | 45
