Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Advice for Directors The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice and all members of the Board have access to the advice, and services of the Company Secretary.
Relationships with shareholders The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which they may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through the website or by telephone.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receives a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
Viability statement and going concern The viability statement and going concern are contained within the Strategic report.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Committee has a key role to play in overseeing internal controls and advising the Board thereon.
More detail in respect of the role of the Audit & Risk Committee is provided in the report of that committee.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
52 | HomeServe plc Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance report The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company.
This has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the control framework and review processes in place across the Group are as follows: The Groups strategy is set by the Board and three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses.
Risks are reviewed in detail at local risk committees and, on an overall basis, by the Group Risk Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Group Risk Committee meets three times a year and reviews a register summarising the significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
Regular updates are provided to the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee meets three times a year and reviews the risk registers in order to advise the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
More detail is provided in the report of the Audit & Risk Committee.
A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local Boards of management, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Regular telephone meetings of the Executive Committee monitor day to day performance, and full Executive Committee meetings are held at least eight times a year at which the Directors report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
Consolidated financial results, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified and understood so that mitigating actions can be implemented, where appropriate.
The consolidated accounts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and verified by the finance team.
The accounts are then considered by the Audit & Risk Committee which makes a recommendation in respect of their approval to the Board.
The Board then reviews and approves the accounts prior to the announcement of the half year and annual results.
HomeServe plc | 53 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Corporate Governance report continued At the end of the year, the Executive Directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Audit & Risk Committee and by the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
A whistle blowing policy allows employees, franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities to do so on a confidential basis by contacting an external hotline.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any significant new business acquired or established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board, supported by the Audit & Risk Committee, carries out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
By Order of the Board JM Barry Gibson Chairman 24 May 2016 54 | HomeServe plc
