Corporate governance report As Directors, we are rightly expected to have a deep understanding of Dear shareholder the business and the environment in which we operate.
We were able to One of my key roles as Chairman is to ensure that the Board operates achieve this during 2016 through various means.
Given the increased effectively with the right set of skills demanded of us as Directors to proportion of gold produced by the Group, as part of the annual ensure that we can oversee the successful implementation of the strategic Board session, the Directors received a presentation from a Groups strategy.
representative of the World Gold Council which provided a detailed update on the economics driving demand and the outlook for the sector.
After the challenges faced by the business in the aftermath of the In addition, at the operational level, a site visit was organised for Board significant falls in silver and gold prices, the relative trading stability of members to visit our newest operation, Inmaculada which incorporated 2016 provided the Board with a fuller opportunity to review its presentations from managers in the mine and the plant.
Finally, the effectiveness and to implement the succession plan that had been put Board is kept updated on the ongoing changing landscape of regulation on hold.
and market practice that affects the Company and the Board from its As reported more fully in the Nominations Committee report below, we advisers, both externally and internally.
were delighted to be able to announce the appointments of Eileen The continuation of the highly valued internal Board evaluation has, yet Kamerick and Sanjay Sarma as Non-Executive Directors.
These again, produced a number of improvements in the way the Board appointments were made with succession in mind since, as already undertakes its role.
It has also sourced themes from the Directors on announced, Roberto Daino and Nigel Moore will be stepping down at areas for future consideration that have been, and will be incorporated the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Both have served as Directors into the annual Board schedule.
Further details on this process can be since the Companys listing in 2006 and the Board has benefited found on page 47. enormously from their contributions.
If you should have any queries arising from this report, please do not A key aspect of the Corporate Governance Code is the ongoing hesitate to contact me.
refreshing of the Board and hence, Eileen and Sanjays appointments will bring not only added diversity to the Board, but also different Eduardo Hochschild perspectives given their background and professional experience: in the Chairman case of Eileen, in relation to matters of audit and risk, and in the case of 7 March 2017 Sanjay, the potential for innovation within the mining industry.
Introduction There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the Board which includes the approval of annual and half-yearly results, the Groups This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, describes strategy, the annual budget and major items of capital expenditure.
how the Company has applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code 2014 edition in respect of the year ended Composition 31 December 2016.
A copy of the Code is available on the website of the At all times during the year, the Board comprised a majority of Financial Reporting Council FRC at www.
At the end of the year, the Board comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and seven NonDisclosures to be included in the Corporate Governance report in Executive Directors, of whom six are considered, by the Board, to be of relation to share structure, shareholder agreements and the Companys independent judgement and character.
constitutional provisions pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules are provided in the Supplementary Information Chairman and Chief Executive section on pages 54 to 56.
The Board is led by the Chairman, Eduardo Hochschild who is also the Statement of compliance majority shareholder of the Company with a 54% holding.
The Board confirms that, in respect of the year under review, the Group The Board has approved a document which sets out the division of has complied with the provisions contained in the Code with the responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
This exception that the Company did not fully comply with the requirement document was last reviewed and amended by the Board in 2015 in light that performance-related incentive schemes should include of the change in Eduardo Hochschilds role to Non-Executive Chairman.
arrangements to recover or withhold variable pay when appropriate to As Chairman, Eduardo Hochschild is responsible for leading the Board of do so ie clawback or malus.
As stated in the Directors Remuneration Directors and ensuring that the Board is enabled to play a full and Report, the Company reviewed the use of clawback during the year constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups which, following legal advice, would be difficult to enforce in the strategy and overall commercial objectives.
countries in which we operate.
As previously reported, malus is incorporated in the Groups incentive schemes, pursuant to which any Ignacio Bustamante, as the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for the vested award may be reduced in the event of an unacceptable position formulation of the vision and long-term corporate strategy of the Group arising in relation to safety, environment, community and legal the approval of which is a matter for the full Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading an executive team The Board in the day-to-day management of the Groups business.
The Board is responsible for approving the Companys strategy and monitoring its implementation, for overseeing the management of operations and for providing leadership and support to the senior management team in achieving sustainable added value for shareholders.
It is also responsible for enabling the efficient operation of the Group by providing adequate financial and human resources and an appropriate system of financial control to ensure these resources are fully monitored and utilised.
44 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 44 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance In light of his majority shareholding, the Chairman is not considered to Independence of the Non-Executive Directors be independent.
However, during the one-to-one interviews conducted The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are with each Board member, the Directors continue to assert that no independent of the Company with the exception of Roberto Daino in undue influence is exercised.
light of his previous role as an Executive Director and his ongoing role as Special Adviser to the Chairman and senior management team.
The reasons for this are twofold.
Firstly, the composition of the Board ensures that the significant presence of Independent Directors ensures In reaching this conclusion, the Board has taken into account the fact that the views of minority shareholders are well represented.
Secondly, that Jorge Born and Nigel Moore the IPO Non-Executive Directors the undertakings provided in the Relationship Agreement as described were appointed to the Board in 2006 shortly before the Companys IPO below ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries are capable of and have therefore served as Directors for more than nine years.
This carrying on their business independently of Eduardo Hochschild and his being the case, however, the Board collectively feels that the tenure of associates.
each IPO Non-Executive Director is not considered to be of a nature to materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgment.
The Relationship Agreement was reviewed by the Board in 2014 following the implementation of new Listing Rules applicable to listed As previously announced, Roberto Daino and Nigel Moore will be companies with controlling shareholders the New Listing Rules.
As a retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual result, an amended and restated Relationship Agreement was approved General Meeting.
and adopted which, in addition to being the subject of a general update, Board meetings held in 2016 incorporated revised independence provisions reflecting the language of the New Listing Rules.
During the year, four scheduled Board meetings were held which were attended by all directors.
Directors usually receive a full pack of papers Under the terms of the agreement, each of Eduardo Hochschild and for consideration at least five working days in advance of each scheduled Pelham Investment Corporation being the entity through which Board meeting.
In the event a Director is unable to attend a Board or he holds his shares in the Company the Major Shareholder Committee meeting, comments are encouraged to be fed back to the undertakes that: Chairman of the relevant meeting who ensures that the absent i. all transactions with the Company and its subsidiaries will be Directors views are represented.
conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms Senior executives of the organisation are invited to attend Board ii.
neither of them nor their associates the Relevant Parties will take meetings and to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: In addition to the regular updates from across the business, the principal iii.
the Relevant Parties will not propose, and neither will they procure matters considered by the Board during 2016 were: the proposal of, a shareholder resolution intended or which appears Financial to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing stress-tested financial projections in support of the going concern and Rules: and viability statements: iv.
the Relevant Parties will not take any action that would preclude or considered recommendations of the Audit Committee to adopt the inhibit any member of the Group from carrying on its business 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and the 2016 Half-Yearly Report independently of any of them.
including the resumption of the interim dividend: Certain confirmations are required to be given by the Board under the reviewing the Groups ongoing financial position and alternative debt New Listing Rules with regards to the Companys compliance with the financing options: independent provisions which can be found in the Directors Report on appointment of RBC Europe as joint corporate broker: and page 42. the 2017 budget.
Senior Independent Director Strategy Enrico Bombieri is the Senior Independent Director and, as such, acts as a the Groups strategic plan which was supplemented by a central point of contact for the Non-Executive Directors collectively but presentation from the World Gold Council on the economic also acts as a conduit between the Non-Executive Directors and the conditions affecting the demand for gold and the outlook for the executive management team.
metal: and Although no such meetings were held, Mr Bombieri makes himself presentation on the long-term trends impacting the markets for available to meet with major shareholders during the year if concerns metals and minerals.
have not been addressed by the executive team.
Non-Executive Directors All of the Companys Non-Executive Directors hold, or have held, senior positions in the corporate sector and bring their experience and independent perspective to enhance the Boards capacity to help develop proposals on strategy and to oversee and grow the operations within a sound framework of corporate governance.
Details of the tenure of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
com 45 Corporate governance report continued Business performance Appointments and re-election of Directors detailed updates on the operation of the Inmaculada mine and on Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the Nominations progress, by the Engineering Procurement Construction contractor, Committee.
The process undertaken during the year in relation to the with regards to outstanding works and other matters: appointment of Eileen Kamerick is further detailed in the Nominations Committee report on page 51. status reports on the ongoing evaluation of the Pablo vein at Pallancata: The Company has adopted the practice of seeking the annual re-election consideration of unbudgeted initiatives resulting in, among other of Directors in keeping with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
things, the acquisition of property close to the Pablo vein and the Biographies of the Directors can be found on page 40. incorporation of additional resources and reserves: Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the Major Shareholder oversight of performance against the Groups long-term brownfield has i the right to appoint up to two Non-Executive Directors to the objectives: and Board for so long as the Major Shareholder holds an interest of 30% or reports on the ongoing review of the Groups land portfolio and a more in the Company and ii the right to appoint one Non-Executive limited number of potential earn-in investment opportunities.
Director for so long as it has an interest of 15% or more in the Company, and in each case to remove any such Director s previously appointed.
Risk The Relationship Agreement continues for so long as the Companys review of the significant risks faced by the Group and the shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange or until such times as corresponding mitigation plans.
the Controlling Shareholders including Eduardo Hochschild cease to Governance own or control in aggregate a minimum of 15% of the issued share capital or voting rights of the Company.
regular updates from the Company Secretary on relevant developments in corporate governance including the regulatory To date, the Major Shareholder has not exercised this right.
This included the oversight of Board development revised policies and procedures to ensure the Companys compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation: It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that the Directors update their knowledge and their skills and are provided with the an update on the implementation of the 2015 Board evaluation necessary resources to continue to do so.
This is achieved through the recommendations, the outcome of the 2016 Board evaluation and various means described as follows.
the form of the 2017 process: the annual reviews of Directors conflicts of interest and Induction independence of Non-Executive Directors: New Board appointees are offered the opportunity to meet with key the appointments of Eileen Kamerick and Sanjay Sarma as management personnel and the Companys principal advisers as well as Independent Non-Executive Directors: and undertaking visits to the Groups operations.
the adoption of updated terms of reference for the Audit Committee.
Briefings Sustainability The Directors receive regular briefings from the Company Secretary on presentations on the social and political climate in Peru and Argentina their responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company and on relevant and the potential impact on the Group: developments in the area of corporate governance.
In addition, the update on the community-led blockade which temporarily prevented Directors have ongoing access to the Companys officers and advisers.
access to the Pallancata mine: and Advice an evaluation of the alternative courses of action with regards to the The Company has procedures by which members of the Board may take preparatory works in advance of the closing of the Ares tailings dam.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the Personnel furtherance of their duties.
the results of the Organisational Climate survey measuring employee satisfaction across the Group and the resulting development opportunities identified.
In between Board meetings, Directors are kept informed of latest developments through monthly management reports on the Companys operations, exploration activity and financial situation.
46 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 46 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance 2016 BOARD EVALUATION In keeping with past practice, the 2016 Board evaluation process was undertaken through one-to-one interviews conducted by the Senior Independent Director assisted by the Company Secretary.
The interviews were structured to seek Directors views on a number of subject areas including those outlined below.
The Committees Risk and Culture Composition and overall workings A review of the process of managing risk within the risk appetite of the Board Specific aspects of each Committees role and scope of responsibilities Exploring views on the Groups corporate culture and the perceived alignment between the culture around the Board table with that The Board across the organisation The composition of the Board, focusing on the skills mix after the In addition to the above, Directors were requested to provide feedback planned retirements from the Board on the performance of the Chairman and fellow Board members.
The effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors as a collective group The workings of the Board Strategic planning and governance Company Secretary Outcome The Company Secretary is appointed and removed by the Board and is The principal recommendations arising from the 2016 Board evaluation responsible for advising the Board on governance matters and the process can be summarised as follows: provision of administrative and other services to the Board.
All the improved feedback between the Committees and the full Board, Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
particularly in relation to remuneration matters: Board evaluation focus on the succession plans in place to ensure the development of talent to Vice President level: The Board is committed to the process of continuous improvement the use of a third-party facilitator to support the annual strategic which is achieved in particular by the internally led Board evaluation session: and process.
supplementing the monthly Board reports with additional Implementation of 2015 Board evaluation information to keep the Directors abreast of external perspectives on A number of actions were taken during the year following the 2015 the Company and the operations.
These included: External Board evaluation re-formatting of the reports to the Corporate Social Responsibility Since the process was introduced, the Directors unanimously consider CSR Committee to facilitate a better understanding of the CSR that it has resulted in a number of recommendations that have related risks to which the Group is exposed: improved the way the Board and the Committees function.
For this a wider benchmarking review of executive remuneration conducted reason and the focus of the management team to control costs during by the Remuneration Committee: 2016, an externally led evaluation was not undertaken.
The Board suggestions on the form and content of the annual strategic review: acknowledges the benefits of an external appraisal of the overall and governance structure and processes and, while it is minded to continue a presentation to the Audit Committee on the Groups IT security using an internal evaluation, the format of the 2017 evaluation will be framework.
2016 Board evaluation The Boards Committees Evaluation of the Board and Committees The Board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee, CSR Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The findings relating to the evaluation of the Board and the Committees Reports from each of these committees on their activities during the were considered collectively by the Chairman and Enrico Bombieri as the year appear on the following pages.
Further information on the activities Senior Independent Director and the resulting recommendations were of the CSR Committee and Remuneration Committee can be found in discussed and, where appropriate, approved by the Board.
the Sustainability Report and Directors Remuneration Report Evaluation of the Chairman respectively.
The findings of the Chairmans performance evaluation were collated by Enrico Bombieri and put to the Non-Executive Directors before being relayed to the Chairman.
com 47 Corporate governance report continued Key roles and responsibilities Audit Committee To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements: To monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and Dear Shareholder risk management systems: I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for To review, on behalf of the Board, the Companys procedures for 2016. detecting fraud and the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery, and to receive reports on non-compliance: Areas of focus for the year Oversight of the Internal Audit function and review of its annual work In addition to the usual matters considered by the Audit plan: Committee which are described later in this report, in 2016 we To oversee the relationship with the Companys external Auditor: looked at a variety of issues.
For example, one of the key To review the effectiveness of the external audit process: and responsibilities of the Committee is to ensure that processes are in To report to shareholders annually on the Committees activities place to identify significant risks to the business and to oversee the including details of the significant audit issues encountered during programme of the necessary mitigation plans.
In this regard, the the year and how they have been addressed.
Committee received a presentation in order to fully appreciate the level of exposure to any form of unauthorised access to the Groups Membership many IT systems.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore, who has extensive and Another significant matter during the year was the tender for the substantial financial experience gained in his previous role as a partner Group audit engagement which the Committee decided to with Ernst & Young between 1973 and 2003 where he was responsible organise given the rotation of the signing partner at EY, which has for services to a number of significant companies, including audit been the Groups auditors since 2006.
In addition, Nigel has been Audit Committee Chairman with the issue of a Request For Proposal that was sent to for a number of other listed companies.
shortlisted audit firms who were selected on set criteria which All Committee members who served during the year under review are included proven expertise in the mining sector and more considered to be independent Directors.
Their biographical details can be fundamentally, a sizeable presence in Peru where the Group is found on page 40. headquartered, as well as experience of auditing UK listed entities.
In preparation for Nigel Moores retirement from the Board at the Presentations were then given to a Working Group comprising forthcoming AGM, Eileen Kamerick was appointed to the Board and as a members of the Audit Committee, the CFO and other senior member of the Committee on 1 November 2016.
As part of the Boards members of management.
In conclusion, it was decided that Ernst succession plan, Eileen will succeed to the chair of the Audit Committee.
& Young LLP would be retained as the Groups external auditors.
Eileen was formerly a CFO of a number of US companies and has chaired The performance of EY will of course continue to be closely and continues to chair, the Audit Committees of NYSE-listed companies.
For further details, please refer to the biographical details on page 40.
Finally, we welcomed Eileen Kamerick as an additional Committee Attendees member from 1 November 2016: she will be succeeding me as The lead partner of the external Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, the Audit Committee Chair following my retirement from the Board at Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief the forthcoming AGM.
Financial Officer and the Head of Internal Audit attend each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
Nigel Moore Committee Chairman The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Activity during the year The following matters featured amongst those considered by the Maximum Committee during the year: possible Actual Members attendance attendance Financial reporting The 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and the Nigel Moore Non-Executive Director and 2016 Half-Yearly Report were reviewed by the Committee before Committee Chairman 4 4 recommending that they be adopted by the Board.
In its review of Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director 4 4 these financial reports, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting Eileen Kamerick Non-Executive Director 1 1 policies, estimates and judgements applied in preparing the relevant during the year ended 31 December 2016 statements and the transparency and clarity of disclosures contained within them.
There were four meetings of the Audit Committee during the year.
Review of audit plans In line with its usual practice, the Committee considered reports from the external Auditor on the scope and structure of the review of the half-yearly results and audit of the annual results.
Risk management Consideration and challenge of risk management assessments which incorporate a risk matrix detailing i the most significant risks facing the Group: ii an evaluation reflecting the likelihood of the occurrence of the risk and the extent of the potential impact on the Group, and iii commentary on the steps taken to manage each specific risk.
See pages 35 to 38 for a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group during the year.
Internal audit The Audit Committee continued to oversee and challenge the Groups adoption of a risk-based approach to internal audit.
The Audit Committee Chairman receives a quarterly report from the Head of Internal Audit which sets out specific areas covered, 48 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 48 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance improvements being recommended and introduced, and proposals The Audit Committee challenged managements evaluation and agreed for the programme over the following three months.
The CEO and that in the absence of any such indicators, full impairment assessments CFO also receive copies of this report and robustly support the would not be required in respect of any of the Groups CGUs except for activities of the Internal Audit function.
the Volcan project in Chile, which was tested for impairment as required under IFRS and concluded that no impairment or reversal of impairment Internal control Through the processes described on the following would be required.
page, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Groups internal control environment and risk management systems.
Going Concern Assessment Whistleblowing The Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Due to the ongoing volatility of commodity prices, the Board and the Groups Whistleblowing Policy, taking into account the reports Committee under its delegated authority regularly considered received through the various online and offline channels established management forecasts on the Groups financial position and thereby its by the Group.
Fraud and bribery The Audit Committee continued to review and The Board has considered cash flow forecasts and undertaken sensitivity challenge the actions taken by management to promote ethical and analysis of the key assumptions.
External audit As described earlier in the Committee Chairmans The Audit Committee considered the processes undertaken by the letter, a tender for the Groups audit engagement in Q1 2016 resulted Auditor to obtain reassurance that supports the continued application in the decision to retain Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys external of the going concern methodology which included reviewing the key Auditor.
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the assumptions.
external Auditor and, as part of this responsibility, the Audit In conclusion, the Committee is content that the financial statements Committee reviewed the findings of the external Auditor and are in accordance with relevant accounting standards and guidance.
management letters, and reviewed and agreed audit fees.
The Audit Please refer to the Directors Report on page 43 for its confirmation to Committee evaluates the Auditors performance each year taking into shareholders on the appropriateness of the Going Concern assumption account written feedback prepared by the CFO, the Group Financial and the Risk Management section of the Directors approach to the Controller and relevant finance managers from the operations.
The longer term Viability Statement.
issues raised are considered in detail at the Audit Committee meeting held mid-year resulting in an action plan the execution of which is Adequacy of Tax Provisions assessed in the following years auditor evaluation.
The Audit Committee considered the potential fines or losses that the Auditor Objectivity In light of the new Ethical Standard, the Audit Group may be subject to in light of open tax reviews and the uncertainty Committee considered and approved a revised form of Policy on the with respect to the quantum and timing of these liabilities.
Use of External Auditors for the Provision of Non-Audit Services see The Audit Committee considered managements assessment of later section for more details.
these potential exposures and the work of the external Auditor which Governance The Audit Committee received updates from the focused on: Auditor and the Company Secretary on regulatory and other developments impacting the Committees role.
In addition, the corroborating managements assessments: Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year, which changes to those assessments relative to prior years and the were revised to reflect good market practice.
appropriate treatment in light thereof: and Committee objectives The Audit Committee has continued its the views of external counsel in support of managements initiative of setting specific objectives for itself and management with assessment.
a view to ensuring the diligent fulfilment of its responsibilities.
In conclusion and having had regard to managements assessment, the The objectives for 2016 resulted in: Committee agrees with the treatment and disclosure of the potential liabilities identified.
the tender for the Group audit engagement which resulted in the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups external Auditor: Mine Rehabilitation Provisions continued focus on the Internal Audit functions testing of the control The Audit Committee considered the judgement exercised by environment for any weaknesses resulting from the Cash management in assessing the amounts required to be paid by the Optimisation Plan the Groups cost-reduction programme : Company to rehabilitate the Groups mines which, in 2016 were closer oversight of the preparation of the Companys first Viability reviewed by an external consultant.
Statement: and In its assessment of the analysis undertaken by management and the a review of the Groups IT security and assessment of the risk of independent third-party, the Audit Committee took into account: disruption or unauthorised access by third-parties.
the basis of the estimation of future rehabilitation costs: During the year, the Committee members held meetings with the the discount rate applied: external Auditor without executive management to discuss matters relating to the 2015 annual audit and the 2016 half-yearly report.
There significant changes in estimates and the basis and level of new costs: were no matters of significance to report from these meetings.
and the accounting for the changes in the provisions.
Significant audit issues The Audit Committee concluded that the provision is appropriate.
As recommended by the Code, the following is a summary of the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 financial statements and how these issues have been addressed.
Impairments The Audit Committee assessed managements analysis which concluded that there were no indicators of impairment or impairment reversals in relation to the carrying value of tangible and intangible fixed assets of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs.
com 49 Corporate governance report continued Related Party Transactions Internal controls are managed by the use of formal procedures designed to highlight financial, operational, environmental and social risks and The Audit Committee considered the accounting aspects of the provide appropriate information to the Board enabling it to protect transaction undertaken during the year by which the Group facilitated a effectively the Companys assets and, in turn, maintain shareholder donation of $1m to the Universidad fide Ingenieria y Tecnologia UTEC, value.
an educational establishment considered to also be under the control of Eduardo Hochschild, the Companys major shareholder.
The process used by the Audit Committee to assess the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems comprises: The Audit Committee assessed the work carried out by the Auditor which confirmed that all of the required disclosures are appropriate and reports from the Head of the Internal Audit function: have been included in the financial statements.
reviews of accounting and financial reporting processes together with the internal control environment at Group level.
This involves the Auditor independence monitoring of performance and the taking of relevant action through The Audit Committee continues to oversee the implementation of the monthly review of key performance indicators and, where specific policies designed to safeguard the independence and objectivity required, the production of revised forecasts.
The Group has adopted of the Auditor, which includes the Groups policy on the provision of a standard accounting manual to be followed by all finance teams, non-audit services.
which is continually updated to ensure the consistent recognition and Policy on the use of Auditor for non-audit services treatment of transactions and production of the consolidated financial statements: Following the issue of the new consolidated Ethical Standard for review of budgets and reporting against budgets: and Auditors by the Financial Reporting Council, the Audit Committee consideration of progress against strategic objectives.
adopted a revised Policy on the use of the Auditor for non-audit services the Revised NAS Policy.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than The Revised NAS Policy lists those non-audit services that the external eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be Auditor is specifically prohibited from providing.
In summary, these recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable and not include a tax services: b bookkeeping: c payroll services: d absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
designing or implementing internal control or risk management Audit Committees assessment procedures with regards to financial information or related technology Based on its review of the process, the Audit Committee is satisfied that systems: e valuation services: f certain legal services: and g corporate the internal controls are in place at the operational level within the finance type services.
Certain of these services may be provided by the Group.
auditor subject to the satisfaction of certain criteria ensuring the Auditors objectivity and the Audit Committees approval.
The Revised Boards assessment NAS Policy is more stringent than the preceding version since it now Risk Management requires i the Audit Committee and Chief Financial Officer to approve Throughout the year, the Board considered its risk appetite which was all non-audit services undertaken by the external auditor and ii that the considered to be appropriate.
The Board confirms that its assessment of cost of non-audit services rendered by the external Auditor, in any the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would financial year, cannot exceed 50% of the total audit fee for that year.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, Safeguards and which are set out in the Risk Management & Viability section, was Additional safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and independence robust.
include: Internal Control six-monthly reports to the Audit Committee from the Auditor As detailed above, the Board, through the delegated authority granted to analysing the fees for non-audit services rendered: and the Audit Committee, monitors the ongoing process by which critical an annual assessment, by the Audit Committee, of the Auditors risks to the business are identified, evaluated and managed.
This process objectivity and independence in light of all relationships between the is consistent with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Company and the audit firm.
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in 2014.
2016 Audit and non-audit fees The Directors confirm that, with the support of the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk management and Details of fees paid to the external Auditor are provided in note 31 to the internal controls has been reviewed during the year under review.
covered material controls, which included controls covering operational, Internal control and risk management financial and compliance matters.
The controls operated effectively Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of during the financial year although, as is the case for many large internal control including risk management and for reviewing its companies, additional controls were implemented or further effectiveness, responsibility for the periodic review of the effectiveness strengthened during the year.
The Audit Committee was made aware of of these controls has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
the control changes and there was no significant impact on the financial Notwithstanding this delegation of authority, the Board continues to results.
The Directors confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses monitor the strategic risks to which the Company is exposed in the were identified as a result of the review of the effectiveness of the context of a risk appetite that is under continuous review.
Groups system of internal control.
50 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 50 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Activity during the year Nominations Committee The principal matters considered during the year were: oversight of the selection of candidates to succeed Nigel Moore in Dear Shareholder anticipation of his retirement from the Board: One of the key responsibilities of the Nominations Committee is matters in connection with the appointments of Eileen Kamerick and the implementation of a succession plan that will see a refreshing Sanjay Sarma as Non-Executive Directors including the review of any of skills around the Board table and a diversity of approaches that conflicts of interest: will enhance our collective ability to oversee the delivery of the the format of the 2016 Board evaluation process.
As explained earlier Groups strategy.
in this report, it was decided that in light of the extensive benefits We were therefore delighted that in preparation for Nigel Moores that have been brought about by past internally led-evaluations and retirement at the forthcoming AGM, we were able to announce the the ongoing focus on cost-control, the Board favoured the appointment of Eileen Kamerick as a Non-Executive Director who continuation of this approach in 2016.
The format of the 2017 Board will assume the chair of the Audit Committee in May 2017.
Eileens evaluation will, however, be kept under review: and appointment was the culmination of an extensive search process the findings of the 2016 Board evaluation process see earlier section overseen by the Nominations Committee which I detail later in this of the Corporate Governance report.
We were also very fortunate to secure the appointment of Appointments to the Board Sanjay Sarma as an additional Non-Executive Director from 1 January 2017.
As a Professor of Mechanical Engineering at MIT In seeking candidates for appointment to the Board, regard is given to with a personal interest in innovation in the mining industry, relevant experience and the skills required to complete the composition Sanjay brings a new perspective to the Hochschild Board.
of a balanced Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
In addition, the Committee maintained its focus on the The process of appointing Eileen Kamerick was undertaken by the development of the Directors knowledge through the provision of Committee with support from Ogers Berndtson who prepared a long briefings on various topics of relevance, including the outlook for list comprising a diverse list of potential candidates meeting prescribed the commodity markets and changes to law and regulation criteria.
A subset of this long list was drawn up and initial interviews affecting Directors duties.
were held by a working group established by the Committee.
Eduardo Hochschild The Committee subsequently discussed the results of the interviews Committee Chairman and, following a recommendation from the working group, Committee members met with Eileen prior to recommending her appointment to the Board.
Maximum Sanjay Sarmas expertise and personal interest in mining innovation Possible Actual Members Attendance Attendance were already known to the Board and therefore, in relation to his appointment, neither search consultants nor open advertising were Eduardo Hochschild Committee Chairman 3 3 used.
Jorge Born Non-Executive Director 3 3 Enrico Bombieri Non-Executive Director 3 3 Diversity Policy The Board acknowledges that diversity brings new perspectives which Key roles and responsibilities can drive superior business performance and promote innovation.
However, as has been stated in past Annual Reports, the Board is keen to Identify and nominate candidates for Board approval commit to the overriding principle that every Board member and Make recommendations to the Board on composition and balance potential appointee must be able to demonstrate the skills and Oversee the succession planning of Board and senior management knowledge to be able to make a valued contribution to the Board.
This positions merits-based approach will continue to apply and the Board does not Review the Directors external interests with regards to actual, intend to set diversity targets.
As demonstrated by the most recent perceived or potential conflicts of interest appointments, where the opportunity also arises to increase Board diversity whether of gender, culture or professional background this Membership would be considered to be an additional benefit.
There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during 2016.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
com 51 Corporate governance report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Dear Shareholder Despite making significant progress in safety across our operations The focus of the Remuneration Committee during 2016 was in 2016, it was with sincere regret that we reported on the two threefold: firstly, to ensure that we offer our senior executives fatalities that occurred at the Inmaculada mine in the early part of levels of remuneration that are commensurate with those paid by 2017.
The Committee and indeed the Board as a whole are deeply our peers which prompted a wide-ranging benchmarking analysis: committed to ensuring the safety of our colleagues and we will secondly that we seek to implement the shareholder-approved ensure that all necessary steps are taken on completion of the Remuneration Policy in line with good market practice: and finally, internal review.
that we continue to monitor emerging practice with a view to implementing a simple remuneration structure that aligns senior With regards to the environment, the Group has implemented executive pay with the successful achievement of the Groups numerous initiatives to mitigate the impact of our operations.
The use of a new scorecard to measure our environmental performance will be reflected in the remuneration of senior Further details on the Companys remuneration policy, the employees and is one way in which we are looking to embed an Committees work in 2016 and how we seek to reflect the  culture across the Group.
experience of our wider stakeholders in executive pay can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 57.
Details of the work we have done during the year with local communities in the core areas of education, health and economic Enrico Bombieri development as well as the matters mentioned above can be Committee Chairman found in the Sustainability Report on pages 29 to 34.
Roberto Daino Maximum Committee Chairman possible Actual Members attendance attendance Enrico Bombieri Non-Executive Director & Maximum Committee Chairman 4 4 possible Actual Dr Graham Birch Non-Executive Director 4 4 Members attendance attendance Nigel Moore Non-Executive Director 2 2 Roberto Daino Committee Chairman 4 4 Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director 2 2 Dr Graham Birch Non-Executive Director 4 4 Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director 4 4 Key roles and responsibilities Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer 4 4 Determine and agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, other members of senior Key roles and responsibilities management and the Company Secretary, as well as their specific Evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups policies for identifying remuneration packages and managing health, safety and environmental risks within the Regularly review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Groups operations remuneration policy Assess the performance of the Group with regard to the impact of Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance health, safety, environmental and community relations decisions and related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total actions upon employees, communities and other third parties.
It also annual payments made under such schemes assesses the impact of such decisions and actions on the reputation Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments of the Group made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not Evaluate and oversee, on behalf of the Board, the quality and integrity rewarded, and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised of any reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, safety, Review and note annually the remuneration trends across the environmental and community relations issues Company or Group Membership Membership There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during Sir Malcolm Field ceased to be a member of the Committee following his 2016. retirement from the Board at the 2016 AGM on 20 May 2016 and Nigel The Vice President of Operations and the Vice President of Legal and Moore was appointed a member on 11 August 2016.
Corporate Affairs attended each CSR Committee meeting by invitation.
Members of senior management attend meetings at the invitation of Activity during the year the Committee.
During the year, such members included the Chairman, Details relating to the CSR Committee and the Groups activities in this the Chief Executive Officer and the Vice President of Human Resources.
area are set out in the Sustainability report on pages 29 to 34.
No Director or senior executive is present at meetings when his own remuneration arrangements are considered by the Committee.
Activity during the year Details of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 57.
52 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 52 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Shareholder relations Principal Shareholder Contacts The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Overview Financial Officer are available to discuss the concerns of major The Company is fully committed to achieving an excellent relationship shareholders.
Alternatively, shareholders may discuss any matters of with shareholders.
concern with the Companys Senior Independent Director.
Responsibility for communications with shareholders on strategy and The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for discussing strategy with business performance rests with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief the Companys shareholders and conveying their views to the other Financial Officer and the Head of Investor Relations.
Communications with shareholders with respect to the administration Other than through direct contact as detailed in the table above, of shareholdings and matters of governance are co-ordinated by the Directors are kept informed of major shareholders views through copies Company Secretary.
of i relevant analysts and brokers briefings, ii voting Shareholder contact in 2016 recommendation reports issued by institutional investor agencies, and iii significant correspondence from shareholders with respect to the The following table summarises the principal means by which business to be put to shareholder vote at General Meetings.
management communicated with investors during the year: Date Event 2016 AGM January, April, Conference calls following the Quarterly Notice of the 2016 AGM was circulated to all shareholders at least July, October Production Report 20 working days prior to the meeting.
With the exception of Roberto March BMO Global Metals & Mining Conference Daino Chairman of the CSR Committee each of the Chairmen of the 2015 Annual Results presentation Board Committees was available at the AGM to answer questions.
A poll UK Roadshow vote was taken on each of the resolutions put to shareholders with May BoA Merrill Lynch Global Metals, Mining and Steel Conference results announced shortly after the meeting and published on the Annual General Meeting Companys website.
August 2016 Half-Yearly Results presentation Further information on matters of particular interest to September UK Roadshow investors is available on the inside back cover and on the Investor Day London Companys website at www.
com Denver Gold Forum An extensive Investor Relations schedule resulted in management holding over 50 investor meetings during the year.
