Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61 Audit Committee Report The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
MEETING ATTENDANCE INTRODUCTION BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN The Committee meets at least three times a year and at any other The Audit Committee has a vital role in the financial probity of the such time as the Chairman of the Committee requires.
Only the business so that shareholder interests are properly protected.
attendance of members of this committee is shown in the table We do this primarily through a focus on financial controls and risk below, although other Directors, where appropriate, have often also management, financial reporting and on the independent external attended at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
audit of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Chairman of the Board, along with the Chief Executive Officer, The Committee are supported in their review of financial controls Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance by a comprehensive internal audit team who examine and report Director, Head of Internal Audit and Risk, representatives from on the adequacy of the Groups procedures from a risk-based the Finance function and senior representatives of the external perspective.
We debate and approve their annual plan, as well as auditors, are regularly invited to attend all or part of our meetings changes thereto, and receive regular reports on their work.
Where as and when appropriate.
The Audit Committee reserves the right appropriate the Committee meets with relevant management to to request any non-members to withdraw from any meeting.
gain further assurance on implementation of key controls.
This process has worked well during the year.
of meetings We review the Interim Report and this Annual Report and Accounts, focusing on key judgements as well as the Andrew Cripps Chairman 2 3 completeness and overall balance of reporting to shareholders.
Mark Allen 3 3 In this we are supported by the independent external auditors, Geoff Drabble 3 3 Deloitte.
Continued independence necessitates change and with this audit our lead engagement partner completes his five Tiffany Hall 3 3 year term.
The Committee have approved his successor having Richard Pennycook 1 1 considered a well-qualified shortlist and the handover process Michael Wemms 2 3 has commenced.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit, the Committee are pleased to recommend that shareholders Andrew Cripps was unable to attend the Committee meeting on reappoint Deloitte as external auditors at the AGM.
15 February 2016 due to ill health.
Richard Pennycook ceased being a member of the Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 5 May 2016.
Michael Wemms was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 3 November 2016 due to a conflict with another commitment.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Committees terms of reference, during the year the Audit Committee consisted wholly of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Subject to successful annual re-election to the Board, appointments to the Audit Committee are for a period of three years, which may be extended by the Committee provided the Director remains independent.
AUDIT COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE www.
com investors governance audit index.
asp Governance A A A Ad d d dd d d di i i it t t ti i i io o o on n n na a a al l l l in in in inf f f fo o o or r r rma ma ma mat t t ti i i io o o on n n n F F F Fi i i ina na na nan n n nc c c ci i i ial al al al s s s st t t tat at at ate e e em m m me e e en n n nt t t ts s s s G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e S S S St t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e egic gic gic gic r r r re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t
