66 Audit Committee Report continued All members of the Committee are members of the Deloitte C C COMMI OMMI OMMIT T TT T TE E EE E E ME ME MEMB MB MBE E ER R RS S SH H HI I IP P P Academy which provides in-depth updates on financial and C C Co o om m mm m mi i it t tt t te e ee e e C C Ch h ha a air ir irman man man reporting matters.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is responsible for determining the Committees agenda and for maintaining the key The Committee is permitted by its terms of reference to obtain relationships between the Groups senior management, Head independent external advice at the Groups expense.
of Risk and Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and senior representatives of the external auditor.
To that end, he is also T T TH H HE A E A E AU U UD D DI I IT C T C T CO O OM M MM M MI I IT T TT T TE E EE I E I E IN N N 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 7 responsible for ensuring that key audit issues are reported to The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least three times the Board in an effective and timely manner and that they are during 2017 in conjunction with the annual reporting cycle.
It reported to shareholders via this report.
will continue to consider all of the matters set out above for which it has primary responsibility in relation to financial Richard Pennycook was Chairman of the Audit Committee until statements, reporting and controls, the work of the external 5May 2016.
Following Richards appointment as Chairman of the auditor and the Internal Audit function.
It will continue to Board, Andrew Cripps was appointed Audit Committee Chairman.
consider the Companys governance arrangements and Andrew qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG and has review the Committees terms of reference.
held Executive Director roles in the UK and Europe with Rothmans International, where he was Corporate Finance Director.
More The Audit Committee confirms that the Company has complied recently, Andrew has been Audit Committee Chairman of a with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority number of public companies, including Booker Group plc.
As such, Order throughout its financial year ended 24 December 2016 the Board considers that he has the requisite recent and relevant and up to the date of this report.
financial experience to satisfy Provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
By order of the Board C C Comm omm ommi i it t tt t te e ee e e E E Ef f ff f fe e ec c ct t ti i iv v five e ene ne fines s ss s s Committee membership and effectiveness is reviewed as part Andrew Cripps of the annual review of Board effectiveness.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman Committee reviewed its own effectiveness by completing an Audit Committee effectiveness tool.
The review encompassed a mix 22 February 2017 of qualitative and regulatory considerations as well as reviewing Committee structure, responsibilities and reporting.
Both reviews concluded that the current mix of financial, commercial and relevant sector experience of the Audit Committee, and that of its advisors, is such that the Committee can effectively exercise its responsibilities to the Group in relation to risk and controls.
Case Study: Cyber Security Like all companies, Howdens is acutely aware of the risk associated with a cyber security incident or a serious data breach.
Such events are considered by the Board to be a principal risk to the Company.
Whilst the Board is satisfied that the current mitigating security measures are sufficient, a recommendation in the 2015 external auditor management letter prompted the Audit Committee to request a deep dive in relation to the adequacy of password management controls across all user accounts.
Similarly, an internal audit recommendation caused the Audit Committee to review cyber security awareness across the Group.
At the July 2016 Audit Committee the Chief Information Officer presented updates against both recommendations and provided subsequent updates in writing at the November meeting.
The Audit Committee will continue to actively review the controls put in place by management in relation to cyber security as this risk matures.
