Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43 Corporate Governance report Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
The UK Corporate Governance Code, Principal A.
1 MEETING ATTENDANCE INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN The Board held regular meetings during 2016 and received The continuing success of Howdens business is dependent on its accurate and timely information.
Only the attendance of Directors ability to sustain its strong and distinctive culture, which from the is shown in the table below, although members of the Executive outset has been based on personal accountability and respect for Committee have also attended at the invitation of the Chairman the individual.
Simply put, the purpose of our Board and our corporate A full list of Directors who served during the year are set out in the governance framework is to safeguard the interests of attendance table below.
stakeholders and to help ensure the successful development of the business over the long-term.
With these objectives in mind, the Board is committed to upholding the highest standards of Attendance No.
of meetings corporate governance and making sure that the procedures Will Samuel 4 4 and practices of the business continue to be fair, appropriate, proportionate, effective and compliant with both the spirit and the Mark Allen 7 7 letter of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Andrew Cripps 6 7 The Board considers itself to be highly accountable to Geoff Drabble 7 7 shareholders and it is entirely cognisant of its responsibilities to Tiffany Hall 7 7 its other stakeholders.
Through challenge and collaboration the Matthew Ingle 7 7 Board has continued to safeguard the outstanding execution of strategy and entrepreneurial culture which has made the business Richard Pennycook 7 7 so successful.
Mark Robson 7 7 Whilst it is important to recognise that shareholder and Michael Wemms 6 7 stakeholder sentiment may change over time, the core principals Will Samuel retired from the Board on 5 May 2016. of fairness and good governance do not.
Howdens will continue to Andrew Cripps was unable to attend the Board meeting on guard against complacency, to take a long-term view on strategy 15 February 2016 due to ill health.
and to ensure that robust and proportional procedural safeguards Michael Wemms was unable to attend the Board meeting on are in place.
3 November 2016 due to a conflict with another commitment.
This table and the attendance tables in the Committee reports show the number of meetings individual Directors could have attended taking account of eligibility, appointment and retirement dates during the year and their actual attendance.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they are still provided with all the papers and information relating to the meeting and are encouraged to discuss the issues arising directly with the Chairman and Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors also met three times during the year without the Executive Directors present.
SCHEDULE OF MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD www.
com investors governance schedule-matters index.
asp Additional information Financial statements Strategic report Governance
