48 Corporate Governance Report continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may borrowing facilities and consideration of significant financial exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions and operational matters.
The Board also considers legislative, of the Articles of Association, the Companies Act and any ordinary environmental, health & safety, governance and employment issues.
The Board is also responsible for determining the nature and The Board has responsibility for the overall management and extent of significant risks and maintaining sound risk management performance of the Group.
They are collectively responsible for and internal control procedures throughout the Group.
challenging and assisting in the development of strategy and The Board reviews the performance of and provides counsel to the ensuring that there are sufficient resources in place to meet the senior management in their day-to-day running of the business, strategic objectives which have been set.
and is ultimately responsible for the safeguarding of shareholders Matters reserved for consideration by the Board are detailed in a interests and ensuring its own effectiveness.
schedule which is reviewed annually and was last reviewed and The Board is also responsible for protecting the culture and approved in January 2017.
These key matters include setting the values of the business, a role particularly pertinent to Howdens Groups values and standards as well as decisions about strategy, where integrity, respect and recognition are fundamental tenets acquisition and disposals, risk management and internal control, of the business.
capital projects over a defined level, annual budgets, Group THE ROLE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Non-Executive Directors have been selected for the Strategy: Non-Executive Directors should constructively diversity of their backgrounds as well as their personal challenge and contribute to the development of strategy: attributes and experience.
The current Board members Performance: Non-Executive Directors should scrutinise the bring a relevant range of skills and experience and all actively performance of management against agreed goals and objectives: contribute in discussion.
Non-Executive Directors have the same general legal responsibilities to the Company as any Risk: Non-Executive Directors should satisfy themselves that other director.
The Board as a whole is collectively responsible financial information is accurate and that financial controls and for promoting the success of the Company by directing systems of risk management are robust and defensible: and and supervising the Companys affairs.
In addition to these People: Non-Executive Directors are responsible for determining requirements of all Directors, the role of the Non-Executive appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and has the following key elements: have a primary role in appointing, and where necessary removing, senior management and in succession planning.
THE ROLE OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS As well as their duties as Directors of the Company, the day-to-day Companys continuing development and the implementation of the running of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer strategy, which the Board has formulated and approved.
The Chief and the Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer by Executive Officer also has a particular focus on maintaining and the Board.
In May 2014, Mark Robson was appointed Deputy further developing our strong and distinctive culture, which has Chief Executive and is responsible for day-to-day management served the Company well throughout the years and continues to of the business, whilst the Chief Executive Officer focuses on the ensure our success for the future.
THE ROLE OF THE COMPANY SECRETARY The Company Secretary provides the Board with guidance on In addition, working with the Chairman, the Company Secretary is various governance matters, under the direction of the Chairman, responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and and ensures that effective and timely information flows between that all Directors have access to his advice and services.
the Board and the Senior Management as well as within the Board All of the Directors have direct and unfettered access to the and between the Boards Committees.
THE ROLE OF ADVISORS External advisors provide a range of services to the Board and its advisors at the Companys expense independent of management Committees including banking, brokerage, legal, audit, actuarial, where appropriate.
PR and Executive remuneration, as well as other consulting The competency, value, length of tenure and independence of services.
Both the Executive Committee and the Board rely on advisors is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
A list of such advisors to provide counsel and opine on specialist matters principal advisors to the Company can be found on page 135. where necessary.
The Non-Executive Directors can engage with Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 49 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and clearly defined.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership of the Board and has a pivotal role in creating the conditions for individual Director and Board effectiveness including ensuring a culture of openness and debate in the boardroom.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and works closely with the Company Secretary in this regard.
He ensures that adequate time for discussion is afforded to all agenda items at meetings.
It is also the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure effective communication with the shareholders.
The Executive Directors are responsible for satisfactory execution of the policies and strategy agreed by the Board.
Senior Independent The Chairman Chief Executive Deputy Chief Director SID Officer Executive The role of the SID is to The Chairmans role is to The role of the Chief The Deputy Chief provide an alternative lead an effective Board, Executive Officer is Executive has communication channel which provides direction to lead the Executive responsibility for the between the Chairman and to the Executive team.
The Chief day-to-day management the Board and to provide an Executive Officer reports of the business as well alternative point of contact to the Board and is as his responsibilities as for principal shareholders to accountable to it.
HOW THE BOARD PERFORMED DURING 2016 Board meetings in 2016 were structured to address the Boards Board Evaluation collective responsibilities in relation to strategy, performance In the previous two financial years, the Board evaluation has and governance.
been undertaken internally by the Senior Independent Director, with support from the Company Secretary.
In keeping with the Despite the strength of the business model and the clarity of guidance provided under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the the UK strategy, the constituent parts of this strategy were 2016 Board evaluation was externally facilitated by Independent evaluated at each Board meeting, with particular emphasis Board Evaluation IBE.
IBE does not have any other business on first principles and individual tenets of the model.
These relationship with the Company or with any member of the Board.
discussions are underpinned by consideration of the culture More information on the 2016 Board evaluation can be found in the and values of the business.
Nominations Committee Report on page 58.
Outside of Board meetings, the Board were provided with Pensions performance updates every four weeks and weekly updates were In 2011 the Board delegated authority to a Pensions Subprovided during peak trading.
This was intended to complement Committee in order to consider all matters relating to the Company the more detailed operational and finance reports that were defined benefit pension scheme.
This was a reaction to the risk provided at each meeting during 2016.
In addition to the Executive that the pension deficit posed to the future viability of the Group Directors, the Divisional Chief Operating Officers, the Group at that time.
In 2016 the Board recognised that, whilst still an Finance Director, the Interim Group HR Director and the Company ongoing risk which required careful monitoring and management, Secretary were present at all Board meetings to take questions the strength of the Group covenant meant that matters in relation from the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board regularly discussed to the defined benefit scheme could revert to being considered by the Groups people agenda with specific regard to organisational the Board as a whole and therefore the Pensions Sub-Committee development.
Health & Safety updates for each division were was disbanded.
A separate Funding and Investment Strategy provided at every meeting.
Committee consisting of members of the Executive Committee was established to provide a vehicle for communication with the The Board considered a wide range of governance matters during Pension Trustees on routine funding and investment matters and the year which included but were not limited to the Group risk this Committee, in conjunction with the Companys actuaries, register, legal and regulatory updates and Group policies.
Bespoke report to the Board on such matters at least twice annually.
training was provided on directors duties and the updated Market Abuse Regulations.
In July the Board agreed a CSR statement of intent in order to provide the divisions with a framework upon which to build specific targets and KPIs.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 50 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control Risk and Internal Control The Group has an established framework of internal controls, The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal which includes the following key elements: control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The Board reviews Group strategy, and the executive management are accountable for performance within the Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than agreed strategy.
eliminate the risks of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide The Group and its subsidiaries operate control procedures reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss.
The UK designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Board reviews financial transactions and to limit exposure to loss of assets the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls at or fraud.
least annually, including financial, operational and compliance The Audit Committee meets regularly and its responsibilities controls, and risk management.
are set out in the Audit Committee Report.
It receives reports from the Internal Audit function on the results of work carried The Board has conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the out under an annually agreed audit programme.
The Audit system of internal controls through the processes described Committee has full and unfettered access to the internal and within the principal risks and uncertainties section of the Strategic external auditors.
Report on pages 22 and 23 and are satisfied that it accords both The Internal Audit function facilitates a process whereby with the UK Corporate Governance Code and with the Turnbull operating entities provide certified statements of compliance Guidance.
The Board has not identified or been advised of any with specified and appropriate key financial controls.
These failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
controls are then cyclically tested by Internal Audit to ensure Risk management they remain effective, and are being consistently applied.
The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which The Audit Committee will annually assess the effectiveness of significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the assurance provided by the internal and external auditors.
The Groups assessment of the principal risks and Every five years, an external assessment is undertaken uncertainties, as described within the Strategic Report on pages with regard to the assurance provided by the Internal Audit 22 to 23, outlines the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating department.
A review was last undertaken by PwC in 2012, and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The and therefore an external assessment of the Internal Audit Board can confirm that it has conducted a robust assessment department will be undertaken during 2017. of the principal risks and identified one additional risk that they consider to be principal.
These have therefore been disclosed as Conflicts of Interest part of the principal risks disclosure in line with the UK Corporate The Companies Act 2006 places a duty upon Directors to ensure Governance Code.
that they do not, without the Companys prior consent, place themselves in a position where there is a conflict, or possible conflict, between the duties they owe the Company and either their personal interests or other duties they owe to a third party.
If any Director becomes aware that they, or any party connected to them, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with the Company, they must notify the Board as soon as practicable.
The Board has the authority to authorise a conflict if it is determined that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 51 SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL Relations with shareholders Share capital The Board considers its relationship with both institutional and Details of the issued share capital, together with details private investors to be important and readily enters into dialogue of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during with investors.
On behalf of the Board, the Company has consulted the year, are shown in note 21.
The Company has one class of extensively with its principal shareholders during the course of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share 2016 in relation to the ongoing progress of the Company and also in carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
relation to identifying appropriate executive incentive arrangements.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor The Company is aware of the stewardship obligations of institutional on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the investors as set out in the UK Stewardship Code and will continue general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing to work with its institutional investors to ensure that they are able to legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of satisfy these requirements.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in Both of the Executive Directors, the Chairman, the Remuneration restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Committee Chairman and a number of Non-Executive Directors met with shareholders during the year and all of the Directors make Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 24.
Shares themselves available for meetings with shareholders as required.
held by the Howden Joinery Group Plc Employee Share Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of control over the The Companys corporate website, www.
Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
com, includes a dedicated investor relations section and provides an effective channel for communication with existing and potential During 2016 the Company repurchased 17,467,000 ordinary shares, investors.
The Board receives regular reports from the Deputy with a nominal value of 1,746,700, which equated to 2.72% of Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer with regard to relations the called up share capital of the Company at the beginning of with the major shareholders and developments and changes in the period, excluding Treasury shares.
As at 24 December 2016, their shareholdings.
The Board also commissions regular feedback the Company held 10,828,842 ordinary shares in Treasury reports from the Companys joint brokers, UBS and Numis.
following the commencement of the on-market share repurchase programme in 2015.
These shares have no voting rights and will Substantial shareholdings be used solely for the satisfaction of employee share awards.
As at 22 February 2017, the Company had been notified in There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, terminate upon a change of control such as commercial contracts, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company: bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
The only one of these which is considered to be significant in terms of likely impact % of total Date of last Substantial Shareholder voting rights notification on the business of the Group as a whole is the bank facility as described in note 18, which requires majority lender consent for Standard Life Investments Limited 5.76% Oct 2016 any change of control.
FMR LLC Fidelity Below 5% Jan 2017 Should such consent not be forthcoming, a change of control would BlackRock, Inc Below 5% Apr 2016 trigger a mandatory repayment of the entire facility.
The Directors Legal and General Group Plc Below 3% July 2016 are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of The percentage interest is as stated by the shareholder at the time office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
of notification and current interests may vary.
Acquisition of the Companys own shares Annual General Meeting As at 24 December 2016, the Directors had authority under the The 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM is to be held at UBS, shareholders resolutions of 5 May 2016 to purchase through the 5 Broadgate London, EC2M 2QS on 2 May 2017 at 11:00am.
market 63,727,882 of the Companys ordinary shares at prices ranging between 10p and the higher of a 105% of the average The AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity to discuss middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the Groups progress and operations directly with the Board.
At the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business the AGM, the Company proposes separate resolutions on each days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share substantially separate issue and the numbers of proxy votes cast is purchased and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of for and against each resolution are made available to shareholders the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest when voting has been completed.
The notice of the AGM is sent to current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the shareholders at least 21 clear days before the meeting.
London Stock Exchange Trading System.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the next AGM or within 15 months from the date Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in of passing.
office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of when the Company will next re-tender the audit can be found on page 65 of the Audit Committee Report.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
