Ho How wden den J Jo oi in ner ery y G Gr ro ou up p P Plc lc A Ann nnu ua al Re l Rep po or rt & A t & Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 55 Nominations Committee Report The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
MEETING ATTENDANCE INTRODUCTION BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN The Committee meets at least twice a year and at any other Whereas the Board and its other Committees main focus is often such time as the Chairman of the Committee requires.
Only the on strategy and the operational mechanics of the business, the attendance of members of this committee is shown in the table main function of the Nominations Committee is to ensure that below, although other Directors, where appropriate, have often the right people are in the right place across the Group.
This is also attended at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
particularly true in relation to the make-up of the Board itself and its ability to deliver shareholder value and safeguard the interests of other stakeholders.
The Nominations Committee must establish Attendance No.
of meetings whether the Board has the right balance of technical capability, Richard Pennycook market insight and transposable industry knowledge so that it can Chairman 4 4 constructively challenge management from a position of expertise and experience.
It is also important that the Board as a whole Mark Allen 4 4 are sufficiently independent, have a diversity of perspective and Andrew Cripps 3 4 understand the governance issues which are inherent with running Geoff Drabble 4 4 a large company with a premium stock-exchange listing.
Tiffany Hall 4 4 The Nominations Committee also plays an important role in Will Samuel 2 2 recommending to the Board a policy on gender diversity.
It is important that the Board sets the tone for the rest of the Group Michael Wemms 3 4 on matters of diversity and whilst the Committee continues Richard Pennycook was appointed Chairman of the Nominations to acknowledge that setting specific gender targets could be Committee immediately following Will Samuels retirement at the AGM unhelpful for a small Board such as ours, I am pleased that the on 5 May 2016.
Mr Samuel and Mr Pennycook absented themselves for all matters concerning the Chairman succession process.
recent appointment of Debbie White to our Board will perhaps Andrew Cripps was unable to attend the Committee meeting on redress the gender balance to some degree.
We maintain that the 15February 2016 due to ill health.
main priority of the Nominations Committee is to ensure diversity Michael Wemms was unable to attend the Board meeting on 3November2016 of perspective in the boardroom and this is something we will keep due to a conflict with another commitment.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the The Nominations Committee is also responsible for monitoring the Committees terms of reference, during the year the Nominations ongoing effectiveness of the Board.
During 2016, the Company Committee consisted wholly of independent Non-Executive engaged with Independent Board Evaluation to conduct an Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Subject to successful external review of Board effectiveness.
This proved to be a very annual re-election to the Board, appointments to the Nominations worthwhile exercise and provided useful insights and realisable Committee are for a period of three years, which may be extended recommendations.
The evaluation included a review of the work of by the Committee provided the Director remains independent.
the Nominations Committee and recommendations were made to facilitate the work of the Committee, which can often be sensitive in nature.
Further details about the 2016 evaluation can be found later in this report.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE www.
com investors governance nomination index.
asp A A Ad d dd d di i it t ti i io o on n na a al l l in in inf f fo o or r rma ma mat t ti i io o on n n F F Fi i ina na nan n nc c ci i ial al al s s st t tat at ate e em m me e en n nt t ts s s G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e S S St t tr r ra a at t te e egic gic gic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t 56 Nominations Committee report continued R R ROL OL OLE E E OF OF OF T T THE HE HE NOMI NOMI NOMIN N NA A AT T TION ION IONS S S C C COMMI OMMI OMMIT T TT T TE E EE E E The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out below.
How the Committee addressed each of these is set out in the body of this report.
In some instances, the Committee were not required to exercise their authority in relation to a specific function of the Committee.
Role Regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required of the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: Board Composition Giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and certain other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future: Formulating plans for succession for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and in particular for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Being responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: As part of the process for nominating candidates for appointment, obtaining details of and reviewing any interests the candidate may have which conflict or may conflict with the interests of the Company: Keeping under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and Non-Executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: Making recommendations to the Board regarding the membership of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, and any other Board Committees as appropriate, in consultation with the chairmen of those committees: Recommending, or not, the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office and the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the annual re-election provisions, in each case having given due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required: and Considering any matters relating to the continuation in office of any Director at any time including the suspension or termination of service of an Executive Director as an employee of the Company subject to the provisions of the law and their service contract.
Providing appropriate and timely training, both in the form of an induction programme for new members and on an ongoing basis for all members: Board Reviewing annually the time required from Non-Executive Directors and undertaking performance evaluation to Effectiveness assess whether Non-Executive Directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties: and Ensuring that on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
Giving due consideration to laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules and any other applicable rules, as appropriate.
Governance Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57 B B BO O OA A AR R RD D D C C COMP OMP OMPOS OS OSI I IT T TION ION ION Bo Bo Boa a ar r rd d dr r ro o oo o om d m d m di i iv v five e er r rs s si i it t ty y y The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there An effective Nominations Committee will establish a stable is diversity of perspective, background and approach in its leadership framework.
Part of its work must also be to proactively management team and on its Board.
Since the business was manage change to reassess the future leadership needs of established in 1995, it has sought to enable individuals to progress the Company.
As detailed in the report below, the Howdens within the organisation regardless of age, gender, background or Nominations Committee has successfully managed a Board formal qualifications.
We believe that it is in the interests of the succession programme in recent years which has ensured a business and of its shareholders for us to build a stable, cohesive smooth introduction of new Directors to the Board.
Whilst the setting of targets on particular aspects of diversity may be relevant in many cases, we feel that N N No o on n n- - -E E Ex x xe e ec c cu u ut t ti i iv v five a e a e an n nd E d E d Ex x xe e ec c cu u ut t ti i iv v five D e D e Di i ir r re e ec c ct t to o or r r this could be given inappropriate focus within the context of a S S Su u uc c cc c ce e es s ss s si i io o on n n smaller board, resulting in the possible overlooking of certain wellThe Nominations Committee remains committed to a programme qualified candidates.
The Nominations Committee will continue of reviewing and refreshing the Non-Executive membership of to seek diversity of mindset as well as of gender and background the Board to ensure there is sufficient balance between the when considering new appointments in the period to 2018, and it introduction of fresh perspectives and the maintenance of will continue to review this policy on an annual basis to ensure it continuity and stability.
Where possible, the Board will ensure a remains appropriate.
More widely, we are committed to developing phased transition of Non-Executives in order to avoid wholesale a long-term pipeline of executive talent that reflects the diversity of changes to the make-up of the Board.
Howdens business and its stakeholders.
As at 24 December 2016, 12.5% of Board members were women.
Both of the Executive The Nominations Committee considers Executive succession Directors were male.
as part of its routine succession planning process.
G G Gr r ro o ou u up d p d p di i iv v five e er r rs s si i it t ty p y p y po o ol l li i ic c cy y y N N No o on n n- - -E E Ex x xe e ec c cu u ut t ti i iv v five T e T e Te e enu nu nur r re a e a e as at 2 s at 2 s at 24 D 4 D 4 fide e ec c ce e em m mb b be e er 2 r 2 r 20 0 01 1 16 6 6 The Group promotes the importance of diversity and adopts an Equal 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Opportunities Policy under which training and career development opportunities are available to all employees, regardless of gender, Michael Wemms religion or race.
The Group is committed to meeting the code of Tiffany Hall practice on the employment of disabled people and full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment.
It aims Mark Allen to do all that is practicable to meet its responsibility towards the Geoff Drabble employment and training of disabled people.
The Group welcomes, and considers fully, applications by disabled persons, having regard Andrew Cripps to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
It is also the Groups policy to retain employees who may become disabled while in service and to provide appropriate training.
C C Ch h ha a air ir irman man man S S Su u uc c cc c ce e es s ss s si i io o on n n The Company announced on 2 December 2015 that, having G G Gr r ro o ou u up G p G p Ge e en n nd d fide e er D r D r Di i iv v five e er r rs s si i it t ty S y S y St t tat at ati i is s st t ti i ic c cs s s served as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company since 2006, a a as at 2 s at 2 s at 24 D 4 D 4 fide e ec c ce e em m mb b be e er 2 r 2 r 20 0 01 1 16 6 6: : : Will Samuel would step down from the Board with effect from the The Nominations Committee reviews these gender statistics Annual General Meeting in May 2016.
Richard Pennycook, who has against Office for National Statistics ONS averages each year been a Non-Executive Director of Howdens since September 2013 and, in relation to gender diversity in the Board, against other assumed the role of Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the FTSE250 company averages.
Similarly, where other data is Nominations Committee from that date.
available, this is presented to the Committee in order to determine whether there are any implicit diversity issues.
It does not include members of the Board or the Executive Committee.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 58 Nominations Committee report continued B B BO O OAR AR ARD D D E E EV V VAL AL ALU U UA A ATI TI TIO O ON N N In the previous two financial years, the Board evaluation has been undertaken internally by the Senior Independent Director, with support from the Company Secretary.
In keeping with the guidance provided under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 2016 Board evaluation was externally facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation IBE.
IBE does not have any other business relationship with the Company or with any member of the Board.
The evaluation focused on the following areas: the size, balance and dynamics of the Board: an overview of protocol, debate and decision-making at Board and Committee meetings: the performance of individual Directors, including the Chairman: the Chairman succession process and Non-Executive Director rotation: organisational succession and development at Board and senior management level: the Boards approach to strategy and to risk governance: the oversight by the Board of financial and operational performance, and of the issues around resources, people, behaviour and culture: company secretarial support and Board information: and shareholder focus.
M M Me e et t th h ho o od d do o ol l log og ogy y y D D fide e ecem cem cemb b ber er er 2 2 20 0 01 1 16 6 6 The conclusions of the evaluation, including S S Sep ep ept t tem em emb b ber er er 2 2 20 0 01 1 16 6 6 O O Oc c ct t to o ob b be e er r r 2 2 20 0 016 16 16 the observations and The evaluation Interviews with recommendations for the methodology and Board members main Board and individual agenda was agreed J J Jan an anu u uar ar ary y y 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 7 and key non-Board No No Nov v vem em emb b ber er er 2 2 20 0 01 1 16 6 6 Director assessments, are with the Chairman The main contributors, IBE observes the presented to the Chairman.
and Company observations and including the November Board Individual Committee Secretary.
recommendations Company Secretary, and Committee reports are presented to the from the evaluation members of the meetings.
Committee Chairmen and are presented to Executive Committee a report on the Chairman of the Nominations and external Board the Board is presented to Committee.
IBE will contact the Company Secretary six months after the conclusion of the evaluation to check on progress against the recommendations.
S S Summ umm umma a ar r ry y y c c conc onc oncl l lu u usi si sion on ons s s a a an n nd d d r r re e ec c comm omm omme e en n nd d da a at t ti i ion on ons s s The evaluation concluded that the Board was considered by most interviewees to be very effective and supportive of management, giving clear stewardship and presenting challenge where needed, that the Board is attuned to the special nature of Howdens culture, and is watchful and alert to the best way of adding value to the Executive team.
However the Board is aware that there are some challenges ahead, such as on strategy and succession planning.
Recommendations included: improvements in boardroom diversity, addressing the method of challenge and feedback provided by the Board to management, reviewing the time afforded to particular agenda items, the provision of more information in relation to key shareholders and refinement of the Board papers to help focus on key items.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59 The Zygos Partnership does not have any other business DIR DIR DIRE E EC C CT T TO O OR R R IN IN IND D DU U UC C CTI TI TIO O ON N N AN AN AND D D TR TR TRAIN AIN AININ IN ING G G relationship with the Company.
More information about the All new Directors undertake an induction programme upon joining process is contained in the Case Study.
Whilst each induction programme is tailored to the specific needs of the individual, we strive to provide a dynamic Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, introduction to the real nature of the business through the and after careful consideration, the Board agreed to reappoint provision of specifically selected information, by meeting with Tiffany Hall and Michael Wemms as Non-Executive Directors with individuals both internal and external who are central to the effect from May and November respectively.
Having served on ongoing success of the business and by visiting key sites such the Board for six years, Tiffanys appointment was extended for as depots, manufacturing sites and distribution centres.
Having been appointed as Non-Executive Director in November 2006, the Board agreed to extend Michael The Nominations Committee recognises that regular Wemms appointment.
Whilst it was noted that the UK Corporate reacquaintance with the culture of the business underpins Governance Code identifies non-executive tenure in excess of nine the effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive years as being one circumstance which may impede a directors Directors are encouraged to meet with Howdens employees ongoing independence, the Board was satisfied that Michael at all levels in order to maintain a broad view of the business.
remained independent in character and judgement and therefore Non-Executive Directors are also invited to attend Howdens approved a one-year extension to his letter of appointment.
The events following their initial induction.
During 2017, all Directors Board were also aware of the importance of the continued role of will receive the bespoke Howdens culture training, developed inthe Senior Independent Director in facilitating a smooth transition house for depot staff and management.
process between the outgoing and incoming Chairmen, ensuring a continuing clear division of responsibilities in the period before the The individual training and development needs of Directors are changeover took place, while also assisting in the development of also considered as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
the working relationship between the new Chairman and the Chief Ongoing training and development for the Directors includes Executive Officer in the months following the 2016 Annual General attendance at formal conferences and internal events as well Meeting.
As reported elsewhere in this Annual Report, Michael as briefings from external advisers.
In 2016, the Board received Wemms will not stand for re-election at the Annual General training from the Groups solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Meeting in 2017 and will retire from the Board immediately on directors duties and the new Market Abuse Regulations.
Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars and During 2017, the Nominations Committee will continue to ensure briefings as part of their continuous professional development.
that a continuous transition process takes place between new and All members of the Board are members of the Deloitte Academy long-serving Non-Executives occurs.
which provides in-depth updates on financial reporting and corporate governance matters.
A A An n nnu nu nual G al G al Ge e en n ne e eral M ral M ral Me e ee e et t ti i in n ng g g A A AG G GM M M e e el l le e ec c ct t tio io ion n ns s s T T THE HE HE NOMI NOMI NOMIN N NA A AT T TION ION IONS S S C C COMMI OMMI OMMIT T TT T TE E EE E E I I IN N N 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 7 a a an n nd d d r r re e e- - -e e ele le lec c ct t ti i ion on ons s s The Nominations Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice As stated in the Corporate Governance Report, and with the during 2017.
It will continue to consider Board succession and exception of Michael Wemms, all of the Directors not appointed review the balance of skills on the Board.
In addition, it will also since the last AGM will retire in accordance with the UK Corporate assess the time commitment and performance of Non-Executive Governance Code and each will offer themself for re-election in Directors, plan the board evaluation process, discuss boardroom accordance with Article 118 of the Articles of Association at the diversity, and review the Committees terms of reference.
Debbie White, having been appointed since the last AGM, will offer herself for election in accordance with Article 117 A A Ap p pp p po o oin in int t tm m me e en n nt t ts s s an an and d d R R Re e e- - -ap ap app p po o oin in int t tm m me e en n nt t ts s s of the Articles of Association.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, In proposing their re-election, the Chairman confirms that the the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Nominations Committee has considered the formal performance Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related evaluation in respect of those Directors seeking re-election, legislation.
On that basis, throughout 2016, the Nominations and the contribution and commitment of the Directors that are Committee executed its long-term succession plans and began required to offer themselves for re-election.
He has confirmed to a search for a new Non-Executive Director as a replacement the Board that their performance and commitment is such that the for Michael Wemms.
The Zygos Partnership was engaged by Company should support their re-election.
the Committee to assist with the identification of suitable candidates.
The shortlisted candidates met with all Executive By order of the Board and Non-Executive Directors prior to the final deliberations of the Nominations Committee in February 2017 and, having considered the merits of all of the candidates, including relevant experience and diversity of perspective, the Committee made its Richard Pennycook recommendation to the Board and Debbie White was appointed Nominations Committee Chairman Non-Executive Director with effect from 15 February 2017.
22 February 2017 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 60 Nominations Committee report continued Case Study: Non-Executive Succession As announced on 15 February 2017, Michael Wemms will not stand for re-election to the Board at the 2017 AGM.
Having first been appointed to the Board in 2006, the Nominations Committee took time throughout 2016 to consider Michaels replacement and exactly what skills, experience and perspective would most benefit the Board in the long-term.
At its meeting in February 2016, the Committee agreed to undertake a review of the balance of the Board and its requirements in terms of membership for the next phase of the business.
The Zygos Partnership were instructed to prepare a long list of candidates for consideration by the Committee.
The Committee met at an additional, out-of-cycle meeting in April to discuss the candidate long-list.
It was agreed that the scope of the initial list provided should be broadened and that recent experience of expanding a business into new markets or territories would be preferable.
It was noted that the Board already had a strength in depth in relation to operational experience and governance matters and therefore a candidate with a different skill set was required.
The Committee also agreed that any list should have adequate female representation to ensure that gender diversity was also given appropriate consideration.
Considering a revised list at the September meeting, the Committee agreed that the candidates would meet the Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors with a view to their recommending two or three candidates.
At the November meeting three candidates had been identified to meet with the remaining Non-Executive Directors.
It was agreed that once the candidates had met with all Directors, a recommendation for appointment or continuation of the search would be made to the Board.
At the Nominations Committee in February 2017, the Nominations Committee recommended that the Board to appoint Debbie White as Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
From a strong field of candidates, it was felt that Debbie provided the best diversity of perspective and cultural fit to help with the leadership of the business in the long-term.
