Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance The Board Corporate Governance Report The Board aims to promote the Groups long-term success, Page deliver sustainable value to shareholders and promote a culture Statement of compliance 132 of openness and debate.
The Board 132 Led by the Group Chairman, the Board sets the Groups strategy Director and Group Managing Director biographies 133 and risk appetite.
It also approves capital and operating plans Appointment and induction of Directors 138 for achieving strategic objectives, on the recommendation of Operation of the Board 138 management.
Conflicts of interest and indemnification 138 Powers of the Board Board performance evaluation 138 Shareholder engagement and the AGM 139 The Board is responsible for overseeing the management of Board committees 140 HSBC globally and, in so doing, may exercise its powers, Internal control 145 subject to any relevant laws, regulations and HSBC Holdings Articles of Association the Articles of Association.
Going concern and viability 146 Share capital and other disclosures 147 Although the Board delegates day-to-day management of the Employees 150 business and implementation of strategy to the Group Chief Executive, certain matters, including annual operating plans, risk appetite and performance targets, procedures for Statement of compliance monitoring and control of operations, approval of credit or The statement of corporate governance practices set out on market risk limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital pages 132 to 182 and the information referred to therein expenditure or realisation or creation of a new venture, specified constitutes the Corporate Governance Report of HSBC senior appointments and any substantial change in balance Holdings.
The websites referred to do not form part of sheet management policy are reserved by the Board for this Report.
Executive Directors Relevant corporate governance codes The Group Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group UK Corporate Governance Code www.
uk Finance Director and the Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC Hong Kong Corporate Governance www.
Code set out in Appendix 14 to theRules Governing the Listing of Non-executive Directors Securities on the Stock Exchange ofHong Kong Limited The Board comprises a majority of independent non-executive Descriptions of the roles and www.
Their role is to constructively challenge, scrutinise the responsibilities of the: governance board-committees performance of management and help develop proposals on Group Chairman strategy.
They also review the performance of management in Group Chief Executive meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Groups Senior Independent Director risk profile.
Board and senior management www.
com about-hsbc leadership The Board considers all non-executive Directors to be Roles and responsibilities of the www.
com about-hsbc corporateindependent of HSBC.
The Board has concluded that there are Board and its committees governance board-committees no relationships or circumstances likely to affect any individual Boards policies on: www.
com investor-relations non-executive Directors judgement.
To satisfy the Rules Diversity governance  Governing the Listing of Securities on the HKEx, all nonShareholder communication executive Directors have provided confirmation of their Global Internal Audit Charter www.
com investor-relations governance internal-control independence during the year.
Sam Laidlaw has served on the Board for more than nine years and, in that respect only, does HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both not meet the usual criteria for independence set out in the UK the UK and Hong Kong.
During 2016, HSBC complied with the Corporate Governance Code and the Hong Kong Corporate applicable provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Governance Code.
The Board has determined Sam Laidlaw to and also the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate be independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding Governance Code.
his length of service, taking into account his continuing level of constructive challenge of management and strong contribution Under the Hong Kong Code the Audit Committee should be to Board discussions.
He will, however, be retiring from the responsible for the oversight of all risk management and Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
HSBCs Group Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of internal control, other than internal Role and support of Directors control over financial reporting, and risk management systems.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are This is permitted under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between the The Board has codified obligations for transactions in HSBC running of the Board and executive responsibility for running Group securities in accordance with the requirements of the HSBCs business.
Their respective roles are set out in writing Market Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of and are available on the website at www.
com about-hsbc securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited corporate-governance board-committees, along with the role HKEx, save that the HKEx has granted waivers from strict description of the Senior Independent Director SID.
compliance with the rules that take into account accepted practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
HSBC is in discussion with the HKEx to update these waivers to take account of the Market Abuse Regulation.
Following specific enquiry, each Director has confirmed that he or she has complied with their obligations in respect of transacting in Group securities during the year.
132 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
