Community investment Board requires those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant responsibilities and During the year, the Committee reviewed and endorsed the to oversee the establishment and maintenance of systems Groups annual community investment budget and the ofcontrol that are appropriate to their business or function.
proposed allocation of this budget across agreed sustainability Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures themes.
aredelegated with limits to line management of Group companies.
The concurrence of the appropriate global Chairmans Committee function is required, however, to credit proposals with specified higher risk characteristics.
Credit and market risks The Chairmans Committee acts on behalf of the Board between are measured and reported at subsidiary company level and scheduled Board meetings to facilitate ad hoc and other aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a Group-wide business requiring Board approval.
It meets when necessary, basis.
with the required number of attendees determined by the Risk identification and monitoring: Systems and procedures nature of the proposed business to be discussed, as set out in are in place to identify, assess, control and monitor the its terms of reference.
material risk types facing HSBC.
Our risk measurement and reporting systems are designed to help ensure that risks are Group Management Board comprehensively captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-founded decisions, that those attributes are The GMB is a forum chaired by the Group Chief Executive to provide him with recommendations and advice, and assist him accurately assessed and that information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be successfully managed in his day-to-day management of HSBC and its subsidiaries as delegated by the Board.
There are special meetings of the GMB that provide oversight Changes in market conditions practices: processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in market ofrisk matters the Risk Management Meeting, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer and of Global Standards the Global conditions practices or customer behaviours, which could expose HSBC to heightened risk of loss or reputational Standards Steering Meeting, chaired by the Group Head of Financial Crime Risk.
The Group employs a top and emerging risks framework at all levels of the organisation, which enables itto identify current and forward-looking risks and to take Internal control action which either prevents them materialising or limits The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the their impact.
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, Responsibility for risk management: All employees are and for determining the aggregate level and types of risks the responsible for identifying and managing risk within the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under model, which is an activity-based model to delineate the FCA Handbook and the PRA Handbook, procedures have management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk been designed for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use management and the control environment.
The second line or disposal: for maintaining proper accounting records: and for of defence sets the policy and guidelines for managing ensuring the reliability and usefulness of financial information specific risk areas, provides advice and guidance in relation used within the business or for publication.
to the risk, and challenges the first line of defence the risk owners on effective risk management.
These procedures can only provide reasonable assurance against material mis-statement, errors, losses or fraud.
They are Strategic plans: strategic plans are prepared for global designed to provide effective internal control within the Group businesses, global functions and geographical regions and accord with the Financial Reporting Council's guidance for within the framework of the Groups overall strategy.
Annual directors issued in 2014, internal control and related financial Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis of risk and business reporting.
The procedures have been in place appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that the throughout the year and up to 21 February 2017, the date Group is prepared to take in executing its strategy, are ofapproval of this Annual Report and Accounts 2016. prepared and adopted by all major HSBC operating companies and set out the key business initiatives and the In 2014, the GAC endorsed the adoption of the COSO 2013 likely financial effects of those initiatives.
framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal control systems to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of IT operations: centralised control is exercised over all IT the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. developments and operations.
Common systems are employed for similar business processes wherever The key risk management and internal control procedures practicable.
include the following: Subsidiary certifications to GRC: half-yearly confirmations The Groups Global Standards Manual GSM outlines the areprovided to the GRC from the risk committees of core principles within which the Group must operate principal subsidiary companies confirming that the wherever we conduct business.
The GSM overlays all other committees have challenged management on the quality policies and procedures throughout the Group.
The ofthe information provided, reviewed the actions proposed requirements of the GSM are mandatory, apply to and must by management to address any emerging issues or trends be observed by all businesses within the Group, regardless indicating material divergence from the Groups risk appetite of the nature or location of their activities.
and that the risk management and internal control systems Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board: in place are operating effectively.
subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group The key risk management and internal control procedures over Chief Executive has been delegated authority limits and financial reporting include the following: powers within which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group, including the right to sub-delegate those limits and Disclosure Committee: the Disclosure Committee, which is powers.
Each relevant group managing director or executive chaired by the Group Company Secretary, supports the Director has delegated authority within which to manage discharge of the Groups obligations under relevant the day-to-day affairs of the business or function for which legislation and regulation including the UK and Hong Kong he or she is accountable.
Delegation of authority from the Listing Rules, the Market Abuse Regulation and SEC rules.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 145 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
