CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT HUNTING CONTINUED TO APPLY THE Compliance PRINCIPLES OF THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Hunting PLC has adopted governance principles CODE DURING 2016.
WHILE THE COMPOSITION aligned with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the OF THE BOARD REMAINED UNCHANGED Code which can be found at www.
The Company THROUGHOUT THE YEAR, IMPROVEMENTS TO isreporting its corporate governance compliance against this INFORMATION FLOWS WERE INTRODUCED, Code.
In April 2016, the Financial Reporting Council issued TO ALLOW THE DIRECTORS TO UNDERSTAND THE anupdate to the Code.
Hunting will report its governance IMPACT OF THE PROLONGED ENERGY MARKET compliance against the revised Code in its 2017 Annual Report DOWNTURN AND THE ACTIONS TAKEN BY and Accounts.
MANAGEMENT TO ADDRESS THE SUBDUED MARKET ENVIRONMENT.
During the year, Hunting was compliant with the provisions of the Code, with the exception of the following: THE BOARD ALSO UNDERTOOK AN INTERNALLY FACILITATED EVALUATION DURING THE FINAL Provision A.
3.1 requires the Chairman, on appointment, to be MONTHS OF THE YEAR, WHICH CONFIRMED independent.
For information regarding non-compliance with IT STILL OPERATED EFFECTIVELY, WITH A CLEAR thisprovision see below.
Provision C. 3.7 requires the Company STRATEGY IN PLACE TO WEATHER THE SEVERE to put the external audit contract out to tender at least once MARKET ENVIRONMENT SEEN SINCE 2014. every 10 years.
For information regarding non-compliance with this provision refer to page 60 of the Audit Committee report.
RICHARD HUNTING C. B. E. Governance Framework CHAIRMAN Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions prescribed by resolution at a general meeting, the business of the Company is managed by the Hunting PLC Board.
The Board is responsible for the management and strategic direction of the Company, with three committees to which it delegates key governance and compliance procedures: the Nomination Committee, whose activities are incorporated into this report: the Audit Committee, whose report can be found on pages 57 to 60 and the Remuneration Committee, whose report can be found on pages 61 to 79.
Board Composition The Board comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and four independent non-executive Directors, which includes the Senior Independent Director.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, including setting its agendas and ensuring that materials are distributed in a timely manner.
He also facilitates the discussion of key matters between all the Directors.
The Chief Executives responsibilities include managing the day-to-day running of the Company and recommending the strategic direction of Huntings activities, while ensuring internal controls and operating and financial reporting procedures are implemented and remain appropriate.
The independent non-executive Directors are a key source ofexpertise and contribute to the delivery of the Companys strategic goals.
Non-executive Directors are chosen from the oiland gas industry and regulatory sectors in which Hunting operates.
Three non-executive Directors have a strong track record within the US energy industry, where the majority of Huntings operations are based and where a high proportion ofthe Companys results are derived.
All non-executive Directors of the Company are believed to be independent, with the exception of the Chairman, who was an executive Director of the Company from the formation of Hunting PLC in 1989 until 2011.
As at 31 December 2016, and excluding the Chairman, the Board was comprised of 67% independent non-executive Directors.
All the non-executive Directors have access to professional advisers, at the Companys expense, tofulfil their various Board and Committee duties.
The Directors, together with brief biographical details, are identified on pages 50 and 51.
All independent non-executive Directors are appointed to all Board committees.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 52 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Company Secretary is appointed by the Board and supports During 2016, the standing items and other items for regular the Chairman in providing all board materials and information Board meetings included the following business: flows between the executive and non-executive Directors, Mar Apr Jun Sep Oct Dec specifically in matters of governance and regulatory compliance.
The Company Secretary is also available to the Board and all its Standing items Committees for advice and ensures that all procedures Chief Executive Update are followed.
Finance Director Report Operational Reports Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Quality, HSE Reports Hunting maintains insurance against certain liabilities, which Shareholder Report could arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty by the Other items Directors and Officers in the discharge of their duties.
This is aqualifying third-party indemnity provision that was in force Annual Report and Accounts throughout the year.
Board Evaluation Risk Review Work Undertaken by the Board During 2016 AGM Preparation The Board met seven times in 2016, on six occasions as regularly Trading Statement timetabled, and on one further occasion, on 20 October 2016 to Strategy approve plans for an equity placing, which was completed on Financial Personnel Succession 31 October 2016.
Half Year Report All Directors attended the regularly scheduled Board meetings.
Annual Budget Mr Glick was absent from the additional Board meeting that Non-executive Director Remuneration discussed the equity placing, due to an unavoidable prior Chairman Senior Independent Director commitment.
Mr Glick was fully briefed on the equity placing, Investor Feedback reviewing copies of all meeting papers and subsequent minutes of the meeting.
Board Appointments and Nomination Committee Huntings Nomination Committee comprises the Companys The attendance of the Directors at Board and Committee non-executive Chairman Committee Chairman, Chief Executive meetings during 2016 is detailed in the table below: and the independent non-executive Directors.
The terms Nomination Audit Remuneration of reference of the Nomination Committee can be found Board Committee Committee Committee on the Companys website at www.
Number of At31 December 2016, 67% of the Committee comprised meetings held 7 5 4 6 ofindependent non-executive Directors.
Number of meetings attended actual During 2016, the Nomination Committee met five times possible: toconsider senior management development and general succession matters, as recommended by the Code.
Richard Hunting 7 7 5 5 Dennis Proctor 7 7 5 5 The Committee met in June to consider the reappointment Peter Rose 7 7 ofRichard Hunting for a further three-year term from Annell Bay 7 7 5 5 4 4 6 6 1 August 2016.
The Committee, led by the Senior Independent Jay Glick 6 7 5 5 4 4 6 6 Director, undertook a formal performance evaluation of John Hofmeister 7 7 5 5 4 4 6 6 MrHunting as part of the process, concluding that he remained John Nicholas 7 7 5 5 4 4 6 6 an effective and able Chairman of the Company.
All appointments to the Board are in accordance with the At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive updates the Board Companys Articles of Association and the Code.
on key operational developments, provides an overview of the market, reports on health and safety, and highlights important The Chairman has also met with the non-executive Directors milestones reached towards the delivery of Huntings strategic throughout the year to discuss and agree, among other matters, objectives.
The Finance Director provides an update on the Groups financial On appointment, each non-executive Director is provided with performance and position, banking arrangements, legal issues, aletter of appointment, outlining the time commitments, analyst discussions and statutory reporting developments responsibilities and fiduciary duties required under Company relevant to Hunting.
These topics lead to discussion, debate and Law and, following Company policy, are appointed for a threechallenge amongst the Directors.
All appointment letters are available for inspection atthe Companys AGM or at Huntings registered office.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED As prescribed by the Code, all the Directors submit themselves Risk Management Procedures for annual re-election at the Companys AGM and at the 2016 The Board acknowledges its responsibility for monitoring the AGM all Directors were re-elected by shareholders.
Groups principal risks and system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness as required by the Code, with key During the year, management succession was a regular authorities being delegated to the Audit Committee.
discussion topic of the Board and Nomination Committee, with key positions and succession plans being considered.
Huntings principal risks, risk management framework and systems of internal control are reviewed by the Board annually In 2012, the Company issued its gender diversity policy for new and are detailed in the Strategic Report onpages 30 to 37.
Huntings diversity policy commits the Group to: Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM of the Company will take place on Wednesday, an embedded culture of equal opportunities for all employees, 12 April 2017 at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London regardless of gender: SW1Y 5HS, commencing at 10.30 a. m. to which all shareholders require external recruitment consultants to submit their are invited.
Shareholder voting procedures follow the provisions diversity policies to the Group prior to appointment: of the Articles of Association and the Code, including a separate ensure that external consultants appointed by Hunting provide resolution on each material item of business, the availability of candidate shortlists comprising of an appropriate gender voting via proxy and the offer of a vote withheld.
At the 2017 balance for consideration by the Nomination Committee: AGM, all resolutions will be voted on by way of a poll.
a target of at least one female Director of the Company when practicable: and Further details of the resolutions and voting procedures are set a periodic review by the Nomination Committee of its progress out in the Notice of AGM.
Shareholders can vote by completing in complying with best practice recommendations.
the form of proxy sent with the Notice of Meeting, or by submitting votes electronically via the Registrars website Following the appointment of Annell Bay in 2015, Hunting www.
co. uk or via their online portfolio service, hasmet its stated diversity target and is more aligned with Shareview, if registered as a member.
Alternatively, shares held current recommendations.
inCREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service.
To be valid, all votes must be received no later than Board Evaluation 48hours before the time set for the meeting.
The Directors undertake an annual evaluation of the Board andits Committees, which includes completion of a detailed The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary questionnaire on the operation and governance responsibilities shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights.
These inrelation to the Companys governance framework.
Both the powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the executive and non-executive Directors are appraised collectively Company passed at its AGM.
During the financial year ended and individually, with the results of the process reported to 31 December 2016, 289,407 Ordinary shares were issued theBoard through the Chairman.
This process was undertaken pursuant to the Companys various share plans.
Further, on in December 2016, with the Board concluding that each 31 October 2016, the Company issued 14,608,771 Ordinary Director, the Committees of the Board and the Board itself shares as part of an equity placing, raising $86.0m before remained effective.
expenses, which was undertaken to reduce net debt and increase financial flexibility.
Furthermore, the Chairmans performance was evaluated in a separate exercise by the non-executive Directors led by John The Company has authority, renewed annually, to purchase up Hofmeister, the Companys Senior Independent Director.
The to14.99% of the issued share capital, equating to 22,311,342 non-executive Directors concluded that Mr Hunting had been an shares.
Any shares purchased will either be cancelled, and the effective and able Chairman of the Company throughout the year.
number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly, or held in Treasury.
During 2016, no Ordinary shares were purchased by In 2015, the Company completed an externally facilitated the Company, under this authority.
evaluation which was managed by IDDAS.
This process will be repeated in 2018.
These powers are effective for 15 months from the date of shareholder approval, or up to the next general meeting where Board Accountability new authorities are sought.
The Directors will be seeking new The Board has procedures in place to review all shareholder authorities for these powers at the 2017 AGM.
communications, including the financial statements and Stock Exchange announcements issued by the Company.
Huntings Employee Share Trust business model and strategy is detailed on pages 12 to 29.
The Group operates an Employee Share Trust the Trust as a TheBoard has delegated the responsibility of assessing whether vehicle to satisfy share options and awards granted to employees the financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable who participate in the Companys share-based incentive tothe Audit Committee.
Further details of the responsibilities of schemes.
At 31 December 2016, the Trust held 791,852 Ordinary the Audit Committee can be found within its report.
The Trust has a policy to purchase shares in the market or subscribe for new shares to Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement partially meet the future requirements of these incentive The Audit Committee and Board review the Going Concern Basis schemes.
During the year, the Trust subscribed for 289,407 twice a year and the Groups Viability Statement annually, in Ordinary shares at the nominal value of 25 pence per share.
parallel to supporting reports from the executive Directors and Huntings central finance function.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the Trust has waived all dividends payable by the Company and voting rights in respect On 2 March 2017, the Board approved the Going Concern Basis of the Ordinary shares held by it.
Total dividends waived by the and Viability Statement for the 2016 year end, which is detailed Trust in the financial year to 31 December 2016 were $33,490.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 54 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Shareholders Share Capital The Company uses a number of processes for communicating As at 31 December 2016, the Companys issued share capital with shareholders, including Stock Exchange announcements, totalled 163,739,686 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each the annual and half-year reports, webcasts, trading statements 31 December 2015 148,841,508.
For further information and the AGM to which all shareholders are invited.
In addition, please refer to the Shareholder and Statutory Information on theChief Executive and Finance Director meet on a one-to-one pages 147 to 149. basis with principal shareholders at least twice a year, following the Groups annual and half-year results, or when requested to update them on Group performance and strategy.
The Board is in By Order of the Board turn briefed by the Chief Executive, when appropriate, on matters raised by shareholders.
During the year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director also met with a number of shareholders to discuss strategy, governance and other matters.
Their comments were passed on to the Board by the Chairman.
The non-executive Directors are also available to meet shareholders.
The Companys major shareholders, as at 31 December 2016, RICHARD HUNTING C. B. E. are listed below: CHAIRMAN Percentage 2 March 2017 Number of of issued Ordinary Ordinary Notes shares shares BlackRock 7 20,705,121 12.6 AXA group of companies 17,729,582 10.8 Wellington Management 8 12,735,152 7.8 Hunting Investments Limited 1 4 5 11,073,487 6.8 Franklin Templeton group of companies 9,157,367 5.6 Slaley Investments Limited 5 6,411,679 3.9 J Trafford as trustee 2 5 6,025,864 3.7 Nordea Asset Management 6 4,926,622 3.0 David RL Hunting 5 199,910 0.1 as trustee 2 5 2,549,117 1.6 other beneficial 3 5 2,484,583 1.5 Notes: 1.
Included in this holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held by Huntridge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Neither of these companies is owned by Hunting PLC either directly or indirectly.
After elimination of duplicate holdings, the total Hunting family trustee interests shown above amount to 6,025,864 Ordinary shares.
Arise because David RL Hunting and his children are or could become beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which David RL Hunting is a trustee.
Richard H Hunting Chairman of Hunting PLC and David RL Hunting are both directors of Hunting Investments Limited.
In 2014, Hunting Investments Limited, Slaley Investments Limited, certain Hunting family members, including Richard H Hunting and David RL Hunting and the Hunting family trusts, to which James Trafford is a trustee together known as the Hunting Family Interests entered into a voting agreement.
The voting agreement has the legal effect of transferring all voting rights of Hunting PLC Ordinary shares held by the Hunting Family Interests to a voting committee.
The beneficial ownership of Hunting PLC Ordinary shares remains as per the table shown above.
At 2 March 2017, the Hunting Family Interests party to the agreement totalled 25,513,715 Ordinary shares in the Company, representing 15.6% of the total voting rights.
On 10 January 2017, the Company was notified by Nordea that its holding had reduced to4,669,815 Ordinary shares, representing 2.9% of the issued share capital.
On 13 January 2017, the Company was notified by BlackRock that its holding had increased to 21,355,252 Ordinary shares, representing 13.0% of the issued share capital.
On 31January 2017, the Company was notified that BlackRocks holding had increased to 22,324,087 Ordinary shares, representing 13.6% of the issued share capital.
On 6 February 2017, the Company was notified that BlackRocks holding had increased to 23,005,671 Ordinary shares representing 14.1% of the issued share capital.
On 7 February 2017, the Company was notified that BlackRocks holding had increased to 23,130,009 Ordinary shares representing 14.1% of the issued share capital.
On 21 February 2017, the Company was notified that BlackRocks holding had increased to 24,052,917 Ordinary shares representing 14.7% of the issued share capital.
On 24 February 2017, the Company wasnotified that BlackRocks holding had increased to 24,780,548 Ordinary shares representing 15.1% of the issued share capital.
On 10 February 2017, Wellington Management Group LLP notified the Company that its holding was 8,027,808 Ordinary shares, representing 4.9% of the issued share capital.
On 27 January 2017, Norges Bank notified the Company that it had increased its holding to4,993,506 Ordinary shares, representing 3.0% of the issued share capital.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 55
