STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 DURING 2016, THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Composition and Frequency of Meetings CONTINUED ITS PROGRAMME OF WORK, WHICH The Committee currently comprises all of the independent INCLUDED REVIEWING AND MONITORING KEY non-executive Directors of the Company and is chaired by ASPECTS OF FINANCIAL REPORTING, RISK John Nicholas.
MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL, IN LINE WITH RECOMMENDATIONS PUBLISHED BY THE Mr Nicholas has a professional accounting qualification and is FINANCIAL REPORTING COUNCIL.
considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Messrs Glick and Hofmeister and Ms Bay have extensive AS PART OF THE PREPARATION OF THE HALF experience of the global energy industry, with particular expertise YEAR AND FULL YEAR RESULTS, THE COMMITTEE in the US oil and gas market.
Further details of the Committees REVIEWED REPORTS ON GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT experience can be found in the biographical summaries set out AND GOING CONCERN, FOLLOWING THE LOSSES on page 51.
REPORTED IN THE YEAR, WITH THE COMMITTEE BEING SATISFIED THAT THE DISCLOSURES AND The Committee meets four times a year and operates under PREPARATION OF THE ACCOUNTS WERE written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are APPROPRIATE, GIVEN THE FINANCIAL published on the Companys website at www.
PERFORMANCE AND POSITION OF THE GROUP.
The Committee met in March, April, September and December, and the attendance record of Committee members during the JOHN NICHOLAS year is noted on page 53.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Finance Director, internal and external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Committee Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
Responsibilities The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor and review reports from the executive Directors, including the Groups financial statements and Stock Exchange announcements: provide to the Board a recommendation about the Annual Report and Accounts, including whether they are fair, balanced and understandable: review the Companys and Groups Going Concern Basis andViability Statement: monitor and review the Groups systems of risk management and internal control: assess the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control: review reports from the Groups external auditors: review reports from the Groups internal auditors, including details of the internal audit programme and its scope: consider and recommend to the Board the appointment orreappointment of the external auditors as applicable: agree the scope and fees of the external audit: monitor and approve engagements of the external auditors toprovide non-audit services to the Group: review the external auditors independence, effectiveness of the audit process, and assess the level and quality of service in relation to fees paid: monitor corporate governance and accounting developments: monitor the Groups Bribery Act compliance procedures: and review the work to comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 57 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED Work Undertaken by the Committee During 2016 Property, Plant and Equipment PPE The Committee discussed, reviewed and made a number of The year end balance sheet includes PPE of $419.0m decisions on key areas throughout 2016 which are set out below: 2015 $460.8m.
This represents approximately 37% of the Groups net assets 2015 39%.
With the market slowdown Mar Apr Sep Dec impacting Huntings Asia Pacific operations, certain regional Financial Reporting assets were impaired with a $0.6m charge recognised.
In Europe, the closure of the Groups European Drilling Tools Annual Report and Full Year Results announcement business led to a$2.9m impairment of assets.
The Committee Going Concern Basis reviewed the PPE impairment tests and, following discussion, Viability Statement was satisfied that theassumptions and the disclosures in the Dividend Proposals year end accounts were appropriate.
Interim Report and Interim Results announcement Goodwill Draft Annual Report The year end balance sheet includes goodwill of $229.8m Review Accounting Policies 2015 $230.6m.
This represents approximately 21% of the Groups net assets 2015 20%.
Detailed reviews on the Internal Control and Risk Management carrying values of goodwill held by Huntings relevant businesses Risk management and internal control report were undertaken at the half and full year, which confirmed that Key risks and mitigating controls Huntings projections supported no further impairments beyond Effectiveness of internal controls and internal those recorded in 2015.
The Committee considered the audit function appropriateness of the assumptions and challenged the discount Internal Audit Report rates and the factors used in the review process.
After Procedures for preventing bribery and corruption discussion, it was satisfied that the assumptions and the Procedures for complying with the Modern disclosures in the year end accounts were appropriate.
Slavery Act Other Intangible Assets Bribery policy review The carrying value of the Groups intangible assets was also Internal audit programme and resourcing reviewed resulting in no impairments 2015 $11.2m being External Auditors recorded in the year.
The amortisation charge recorded in the Auditor objectivity, independence and income statement was $35.3m 2015 $40.8m.
As with the re-appointment goodwill impairment review, the Committee considered the Full year report to the Audit Committee appropriateness of the assumptions, discount rates and factors Final Management Letter on internal controls used in the review process.
Auditor performance and effectiveness Inventory Proposed year end audit plan including scope, At the year end, the Group recorded $259.7m of inventory fees and engagement letter 2015 $331.2m.
Due to the prolonged energy market Interim review report to the Audit Committee downturn, the carrying values have been closely monitored, with Risk of auditor leaving the market management regularly reviewing the position to ensure slower Other Business moving stock was booked appropriately.
In 2016, a $10.3m net Whistleblowing policy review impairment against the Groups inventory carrying values was Committee effectiveness booked, which is recorded within cost of sales 2015 $9.3m.
Terms of Reference The Committee reviewed the impairment calculations and following discussion was satisfied that the assumptions and the disclosures in the year end accounts were appropriate.
Review of the 2016 Financial Statements The Committee reviews final drafts of the Groups Annual Report Taxation and Accounts for both the half and full year.
As part of this In view of the international spread of operations, the Committee process, the performance of the Groups major divisions is monitors tax risk, tax audits and provisions held for taxation.
considered, with key judgements, estimates and accounting TheFinance Director briefed the Committee on developments policies being approved by the Committee ahead of a during the year.
Exceptional Items Charged to the Consolidated In addition to briefings and supporting reports from the central Income Statement finance team on significant issues, the Committee engages in The Group reports a middle column within the consolidated discussion with the Groups external auditors.
income statement, which includes amortisation and exceptional items.
The Committee considered the accounting policy Significant issues reviewed by the Committee in connection definition of exceptional items and the items included within withthe 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were as follows: thiscolumn to ensure consistency of treatment and adherence topolicy.
The Committee also reviewed the calculation and Impairment Reviews composition of each exceptional item and has satisfied itself that During 2016, the Group reported significant underlying and they are reported appropriately.
reported losses from continuing operations, given the prolonged downturn in Huntings core markets.
Given this trading environment, management completed impairment reviews on thecarrying values of assets held on the Groups balance sheet at the half and full year reporting dates.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 58 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement Audit Scope Given the trading losses reported by the Group during the year, The Audit Committee also considered the audit scope and combined with the need to renegotiate banking covenants in the materiality threshold.
The audit scope was planned to cover summer months, the Committee closely monitored assumptions Group-wide risks and local statutory reporting, enhanced by around going concern at the half and full year, as well as those desk top reviews for smaller, low risk entities.
Approximately 94% around the Groups Viability Statement for the full year.
The of the Groups reported revenue and over 90% of the absolute assumptions considered by the Committee included reviews result before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the ofthe regular forecast updates provided by management and impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets, was reviewing bank covenant compliance reports on the renegotiated audited, covering 22 reporting units across seven countries.
The Committee also took into account intheir assessment the equity placing by the Company which Materiality completed on Monday 31 October 2016 raising a net $83.9m.
The Committee has discussed materiality with the auditors both as regards accounting errors that will be brought to the Audit Further information on the going concern assumption can be Committees attention and as regards amounts that would need found on page 38. to be adjusted so that the financial statements give a true and fair view.
Overall audit materiality was set at $5.0m 2015 $5.0m.
On 27 February 2017, the Audit Committee approved the Viability This equates to approximately 5% of the Groups average Statement, detailed on page 38 of the Strategic Report, noting reported absolute result before tax from continuing operations, that it presented a reasonable outlook for the Group for the next adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current three years.
assets, for the past three years.
This is within the range that audit opinions are considered to be reliable.
Furthermore, the auditors Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment agreed to draw to the Audit Committees attention all identified The Committee has reviewed the financial statements together uncorrected misstatements greater than $0.3m.
with the narrative contained within the Strategic Report set outon pages 2 to 49 and believes that the Annual Report and Audit Effectiveness Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The external auditors full year report includes a statement on their independence, their ability to remain objective and their In arriving at this conclusion the Committee undertook ability to undertake an effective audit.
The Committee considers the following: and assesses this independence statement on behalf of the Board, taking into account the level of fees paid, particularly for review of early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts, non-audit services.
providing relevant feedback to the executive Directors: regular review and discussion of the financial results during The effectiveness of the audit process is considered throughout the year, including briefings by Group finance and operational the year with a formal review undertaken at the April meeting of management: and the Committee.
The assessment considers the following matters: receipt and review of reports from the external and internal auditors.
the auditors understanding of the Groups business and industry sector: The Committee advised the Board of its conclusion that the the planning and execution of the audit plan approved by 2016Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, were fair, the Committee: balanced and understandable at a Meeting of the Directors on the communication between the Group and audit 28 February 2017. engagement team: the auditors response to questions from the Internal Audit Committee, including during private meetings without The Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit management present: department and reviews the internal audit process and the independence, objectivity and scepticism of the auditor: effectiveness as part of the Groups internal control and risk responses to a formal questionnaire on conduct of the audit assessment programme.
An annual programme of internal audit from the senior financial managers of the Group: assignments is reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee a report from the Finance Director and the Group Financial metwith the head of Internal Audit without the presence of the Controller: and executive Directors on three occasions during the year.
The finalisation of the audit work ahead of completion of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was also considered Annual Report and Accounts.
by the Committee at its March meeting.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and took account of External Audit thereports from the Financial Reporting Council on The external auditors presented reports at the March, April,  LLP.
After considering these matters, September and December meetings for consideration by the the Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the year Committee.
In March, a full year report was considered ahead of end audit process.
publication of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts: in April an internal control report was presented, following the year end audit and in September an interim report was presented, which includes the proposed full year audit scope and fees.
An update to the full year plan was presented at the December meeting.
TheCommittee considers the reappointment of the auditors annually at its March meeting and makes a recommendation tothe Board.
The Committee normally meets with the external auditors, without executive Directors present, at the end of each formal meeting.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED Audit Tender Modern Slavery Act The Committee values the importance of maintaining high The Modern Slavery Act 2015 was enacted during 2016 and standards in the external audit process.
During the year, the requires companies to evaluate internal and external risks related Company complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit to human trafficking and modern slavery.
Procedures were Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory introduced during the second half of 2016, whereby each Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee business unit across the Hunting group completed due diligence Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Audit Order throughout on its workforce to highlight employment risks in relation to the year.
All businesses within the Group also completed a risk-mapping exercise of their known supply chain  LLP have been auditors to the Group to evaluate those customers and suppliers to the Group who since the Companys formation on 7 August 1989 and under the operate in those jurisdictions where trafficking and slavery firms audit partner rotation rules, the current Senior Statutory ismore prevalent.
Auditor will rotate off the audit following completion of the 2018 statutory audit.
The Committee has considered the EU Audit A summary report on compliance with the Modern Slavery Directive implemented in the UK during the year relating to Act, which encompassed a roadmap for the further evolution external auditors rotation and will complete a tender process ofHuntings due diligence and compliance procedures in during 2017.
 LLP will not be eligible to thisarea, was reviewed by the Audit Committee at its participate in the tender.
The new firm of auditors selected will December 2016 meeting.
assume audit responsibilities from 1 January 2019.
Code of Conduct Non-Audit Services The Groups Code of Conduct contains policies and procedures The Committee closely monitors fees paid to the auditors in covering how the Group conducts business and maintains its respect of non-audit services, which are analysed within note 8. relationships with business partners.
The Code of Conduct is In 2016, fees for non-audit services were $nil.
The scope and available on the Groups website.
extent of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires prior Whistleblowing approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision of such The Companys Senior Independent Director, John Hofmeister, services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
isthe primary point of contact for staff of the Group to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, In line with the EUs Audit Directive, the Audit Committee financial or otherwise.
reviewed and approved a new policy in December 2016 for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, in line In addition, the Group engages the services of Safecall Limited to withthe Directives requirements.
provide an independent and anonymous whistleblowing service available to staff across all of Huntings operations.
The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the Committee.
All employees have been notified of these arrangements through the corporate magazine, Group notice boards and the Internal Controls Groups website.
The Group has an established risk management and internal control environment, which was in operation throughout the year.
The Committee monitors these arrangements on behalf of the Board, which are detailed in the Risk Management section of the Strategic Report on pages 30 to 37.
Bribery Act Compliance In compliance with the UK Bribery Act, Hunting has procedures JOHN NICHOLAS in place, including the publication of Bribery and Corruption CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE policies and detailed guidelines on interacting with customers, suppliers and agents, including specific policies for gifts, 2 March 2017 entertainment and hospitality.
Senior managers across the Group are required to report their compliance activities, including an evaluation of risk areas.
The Group has completed a screening exercise to identify relevant employees who face a heightened risk of bribery, with all relevant personnel completing a formal training and compliance course, in line with the Groups procedures.
The Committee reviews the compliance procedures relating to the Bribery Act at its April and December meetings, which incorporate risk assessments completed by each business unit and gifts and entertainment disclosures made during the reporting period.
The Groups internal audit function reviews localcompliance with the Bribery Act and reports control improvements and recommendations to the Committee where appropriate.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 60
