Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 46 Corporate Governance Statement continued updates against budget circulated as part of the Chief Financial External directorships Officers report to the Board.
In addition, the Board reviews all Any external appointments or other significant commitments of significant capital expenditure requests separately, after a general theDirectors require the prior approval of the Board.
The external approval for the quantum of the capital expenditure budget has commitments of the Board are set out in their biographies on been granted.
Measures such as these maintain adequate levels pages 38 and 39.
The Board is content with the level of external of control and scrutiny over the budget and capital expenditure at directorships held by the Chairman and the independent Board level.
The Board recognises that its Committees are Non-Executive Directors, as these do not impact on the time generally only empowered to make recommendations to the that any Director devotes to the Company.
Furthermore, the Board Board for their approval, unless a specific authorisation to approve believes that this external experience only enhances the capability certain matters is granted.
To facilitate information flows, a verbal of the Board.
update is given by the Chairman of the relevant Committee in the subsequent Board meeting following a Committee meeting.
Jamie Pikes external commitments are currently unchanged since last year, but he has indicated that he will step down as The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Chairman and as a Director of Tyman PLC at that Companys Groups system of risk management and internal control during AGM in May 2017. the year, in accordance with the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Wayne Sheppard is Principal of the Construction Products Reporting.
Details of the review can be found in the Audit Association, and a Director of the Brick Development Association.
Committee report on page 52 to 57.
Fair, balanced and understandable a matter Accountability for the whole Board Internal controls As part of its considerations as to whether the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide The Board remains responsible for the effectiveness of internal information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys control and risk management and keeps the systems under position, performance, business model and strategy, the Board regular review.
takes into account the following: The Board as a whole discuss, challenge and give approval on the n the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input to and agree on Annual Report & Accounts.
Details of the internal controls of the the overall messages and tone of the Annual Report & Accounts Company including a description of the main features of its internal at an early stage: control and risk management arrangements in relation to the financial reporting process and the manner in which the Board n individual sections of the Annual Report & Accounts are drafted assess the effectiveness of these controls are set out as part of by appropriate senior management with regular review meetings the Audit Committee Report on pages 52 to 57. to ensure consistency of the whole document: The Groups internal control is based on assessment of risk and a n detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the Annual framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor Report & Accounts are undertaken by the Executive Directors: compliance with procedures.
The internal control systems are n a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the auditors designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to on a timely basis to allow sufficient consideration and is which it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only discussed with the Chief Financial Officer and senior reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material loss to the management prior to consideration by the Board: and Group or material misstatement in the financial accounts.
n the Chief Financial Officer, in his February 2017 Board paper, The Group has an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation included a checklist of areas that the Board should take into and management of significant business risks, which has been in account in considering the fairness, consistency and balance of place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the final draft of the Annual Report & Accounts including whether this Annual Report & Accounts.
The Board has during the period the Board considers that there are any omissions in information.
identified and evaluated the key risks and has ensured that effective controls and procedures are in place to manage these The statement of Going Concern and the Viability Statement risks see pages 32 to 36. appear on pages 75 and 37, respectively.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives from Jamie Pike Non-Executive Chairman the businesses to address financial, human resource, legal, risk 7 March 2017 management and other control issues.
In relation to the Boards responsibility to approve the financial statements the Board sets out its Directors Responsibility Statement at the end of this section.
The Board also retains its responsibility to approve the annual budget.
Monitoring of the annual budget, following approval, is carried out through regular Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 47 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Directors responsibilities records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Companys transactions and to disclose with reasonable accuracy Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company required to prepare the Group consolidated financial statements and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards detection of fraud and other irregularities.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally of the corporate and financial information included on the Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Standards, including FRS 102, The Financial Reporting Standard the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland, and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law the Directors must not The Directors are of the opinion that the Annual Report & Accounts, approve the Annual Report & Accounts unless they are satisfied taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Directors Responsibility Statement n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The Directors who were in office as at 31 December 2016 and consistently: whose names and functions are given on pages 38 and 39 n make judgements and accounting estimates that are confirm that to the best of their knowledge: reasonable and prudent: n the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view n state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Group and Company and the undertakings included in the and explained in the financial statements: and consolidation taken as a whole: and n prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will n the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review continue in business.
of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company and the undertakings In preparing the Group consolidated financial statements, included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a International Accounting Standard No.
1 requires Directors to: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
n properly select and apply accounting policies: This Responsibility Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: n present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Wayne Sheppard Kevin Sims information: Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 7 March 2017 7 March 2017 n provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and n make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
