Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 50 Nomination Committee Report n We reviewed the Independence of Non-Executive Directors and formed the conclusion that the independent Non-Executive Directors named on pages 38 and 39 continue to be regarded as independent.
Members of the Committee as at the date ofthis report: n Jamie Pike Chairman n Tracey Graham n Lynn Minella n Jonathan Nicholls n Michel Plantevin Jamie Pike n Justin Read Chairman of the Nomination Committee Please see pages 38 and 39 for detailed biographies.
Dear Shareholder, Areas of focus in 2017 I am pleased to present to you the report of the Nomination n Continue to develop and monitor succession plans for both the Committee the Committee for the year ended 31 December Board and senior management.
2016. n Development of the Diversity Policy.
2016 key achievements Responsibilities n We supported the Board with the appointment of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Tracey Graham and The key responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: Lynn Minella joined the Board in February 2016 and Justin Read n Develop and maintain a formal, rigorous and transparent was appointed on 1 January 2017. procedure for making recommendations to the Board on n We reviewed the training requirements of the Board and agreed appointments and on the structure, size and composition of upon a suitable regime.
Going forward, the Chairman and the the Board: Company Secretary will identify broader areas of training for the n Succession planning for Directors and other senior managers: Board as a whole and the Chairman will discuss and agree the training requirements with individual Directors.
n Evaluate the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience of the Board: n We conducted an in-depth review of the Groups succession plan and considered the talent available below the Board level.
n Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for The Committees review concluded that the Company has a particular appointment and lead the recruitment process: robust succession planning arrangements in place.
n Identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates n We reviewed the size, structure and composition of the Board to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when and worked towards compliance with the provisions of the they arise: Governance Code.
Egon Zehnder, the external search firm, which has no other connection to the Company, worked with n Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive me to devise a long list of candidates for each of the three Board Directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the appointments.
Short lists were then compiled and the Board and its Committees: and Committee, together with the Executive Directors, met with the n Recommend, where appropriate, the re-election of Directors.
candidates, following which the Committee was able to formulate itsrecommendation to the Board.
Compliance with the Governance Code was achieved on 1 January 2017 with the appointment of Justin Read.
n We considered the time commitment required from the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee concluded, through discussions with the Chairman and the Board and Committee evaluation process, that the Non-Executive Directors had committed sufficient time to fulfil their duties and that their performance continued to be effective.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 51 Nomination Committee calendar and agenda discussion items During the year the Board met on three occasions.
2016 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Recommendation for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to the Board n n Adoption and subsequent review of Committees Terms of Reference n n Reviewed Directors training and development needs n Reviewed size, structure and composition of the Board n Reviewed time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors n Reviewed the independence of Non-Executive Directors n Conducted an evaluation of the Committees performance n Reviewed succession planning arrangements n Succession planning Corporate Governance The composition of the Board is constantly under review with During the year, the Committee and reviewed the Terms of Reference.
The Terms of Reference can be found on our website the aim of ensuring that it has the depth and breadth of skills to at www.
The Committee, through its review of succession planning, applies a similar approach to the layer of management that sits immediately below the Board.
Diversity The aim of the Committee is to ensure that the Board is well The Board fully supports the aims, objectives and balanced and appropriate for the needs of the business and recommendations outlined in the Hampton-Alexander Review the achievement of its strategy, comprising Directors who are which is focused on ensuring talented women succeed by appropriately experienced and are independent of character and removing barriers to their success, and continuing to drive forward judgement.
Before recommending new candidates to the Board, the momentum of the Davies Review Women on Boards.
We the Nomination Committee takes account of the balance of skills, are aware of the need to achieve an appropriate balance of women knowledge, experience and diversity of psychological type, on our Board and in senior positions throughout the Group.
We do educational and professional background and gender.
However, not consider that it is in the best interests of the Company, or its all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
Additional shareholders, to set prescriptive targets for gender on the Board information is included in the Corporate Governance Statement and we will continue to make appointments based on merit, on page 42. against objective criteria to ensure we appoint the best individual for each role.
Ensuring the Directors independence and Approximately 22% of the Board are female, as at the date of this commitment to their roles Report, and 12.5% of a population of senior managers are female.
Additional information regarding the gender split across the Group In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive can be found on page 23 of the Strategic report.
Director appointments, the Nomination Committee specifically considers the expected time commitment of the proposed Board and Committee effectiveness Non-Executive Director and other commitments they already have.
Agreement of the Board is also required before a Director may The Committee arranged an annual performance evaluation to be accept any additional commitments to ensure possible conflicts of undertaken of the effectiveness of the Board, each Committee of interest are identified and that they will continue to have sufficient the Board and of the contribution of each Director.
time available to devote to the Company.
Any other conflicts of The evaluation of the Board and its Committees was conducted interest are also considered at each Board meeting.
by EquityCommunications Limited, an external facilitator, in the late autumn 2016.
The process took the form of a questionnaire Re-election of Directors completed by all members of the Board and the Company Secretary.
A report on the outcome of the evaluation of the The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Committees effectiveness was prepared by Nomination Committee to ensure there is an effective balance of EquityCommunications Limited and was presented to the Board skills, experience and knowledge.
and its Committees in December 2016.
The conclusion drawn In accordance with the Governance Code, all Directors wishing to from the review was that the Committee had operated effectively.
continue in office will retire and offer themselves for re-election by Jamie Pike shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 52 Audit Committee Report Members of the Committee as at the date of this report: n Jonathan Nicholls Chairman n Tracey Graham n Lynn Minella n Justin Read Please see pages 38 to 39 for detailed biographies.
Areas of focus in 2017 n Formalise and publish the Group tax strategy in compliance with new legislation introduced during 2016.
Jonathan Nicholls n Continue to ensure that the systems of internal control are robust Chairman of the Audit Committee and operating effectively and that the principal risks identified by the Board are effectively managed.
Dear Shareholder, n Review significant reporting judgements and key assumptions related to those judgements.
Welcome to the Report of the Audit Committee the Committee for the Groups first full year of trading since Admission.
Audit Committee composition and meetings The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the During February 2016, Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella were Board on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Directors and also management systems and the independence and effectiveness became members of the Committee.
Following their appointment, of the external auditors.
The Committee provides independent Jamie Pike, who had been a member of the Committee since monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive Management Admission, stood down from the Committee on 24 February 2016. in these areas.
Through this process the Committees aim is to Justin Read became a member of the Committee upon his ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, appointment to the Board in January 2017. an appropriate control environment, risk management and compliance.
The Committee believes that excellence in these The Governance Code recommends that, in the case of FTSE 350 areas enhances the effectiveness and reduces the risks to the companies, the Audit and Risk Committee comprises at least business and protects the interests of the shareholders as regards three Non-Executive Directors, independent for the purposes of the integrity of published financial information by the Group and the Governance Code, and that one such member has recent and the effectiveness of the external audit.
The Board considers that Justin The Committee is appointed by the Board.
The Committee will Read and I have recent and relevant financial experience.
The continue to keep its activities under review to ensure that it Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to the sector in complies with any changes in the regulatory environment.
The Committee met formally on four occasions during the year and I shall be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any expects to meet at least four times per year going forward.
questions shareholders may have regarding the work of the Committee.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting and discussion with the Groups external auditors in respect of the Groups half year 2016 key achievements and year-end results and meetings are also attended by certain Executive Directors and senior managers by invitation.
n Following a competitive tender process the Committee commissioned RSM Risk Assurance Services LLP RSM to Other members of the Board attend the Committees meetings, conduct a health-check of current Internal Audit arrangements as and when required, by invitation.
and the wider control environment and acted upon the recommendations.
n Satisfied with the performance of RSM in conducting the health-check, the Committee appointed them to provide an outsourced Internal Audit function.
n We conducted a competitive tender process for the appointment of the Groups external auditor and recommended the appointment of Deloitte LLP.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 53 n To make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, Purpose and aim independence and effectiveness of the Groups external auditor The purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations on and to negotiate and agree their remuneration: and the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects n To develop and implement the Groups non-audit services policy.
of the Directors and the Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Management in these areas.
Key responsibilities include: Accounting and key areas of judgement n To ensure the consistent application of, and any changes to, A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring that significant accounting policies across the Group: suitable accounting policies are adopted and applied consistently on a year on year basis.
The Committee specifically uses the Audit n To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: Planning meetings in May and November each year to consider n To monitor and challenge the effectiveness of the Groups proposed accounting treatments for major transactions, significant internal financial controls, as well as the wider internal control reporting judgements and key assumptions related to those and risk management systems: judgements.
In addition, these matters are reviewed throughout the year.
n To monitor the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures: n To evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function: Audit Committee calendar and agenda discussion items During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
2016 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Financial and narrative reporting n n n n External audit n n n n External audit tender n Internal Audit n n n Independence and objectivity of the external auditor n n Committee effectiveness n Review of risk n n n n Significant accounting matters n n n n n Conducted a review of significant accounting policies Audit Committee activities during the year and judgements.
The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting n Received corporate reporting updates from the external and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal auditor and considered the approach to the 2016 Annual Report control and risk management system.
summarises the agenda items covered at the Committees meetings during the year: n Considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
Financial and narrative reporting n Responded to an enquiry letter from the FRC in respect of the n Reviewed the full and half year results and associated Groups 2015 financial statements.
All queries were addressed announcements and recommended them to the Board to the FRCs satisfaction.
n Reviewed the Groups Annual Report & Accounts to consider whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, position, business model and strategy and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54 Audit Committee Report continued External audit Committee effectiveness n Reviewed and considered the reports presented by EY to the n Received updates from EY on compliance and changes in Audit Committee following the half year review and full year audit.
Corporate Governance matters and the regulatory framework.
n Discussed the Board representation letter.
n Conducted the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
n Reviewed the performance of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
n Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and confirmed that they remained appropriate.
n Discussed the fees for audit and non-audit services and obtained assurance on the objectivity and independence of the n Reviewed training requirements of Committee members and external auditor, taking into consideration relevant professional received training and technical updates from the Company and regulatory developments.
n Reviewed the overall firm-wide Audit Quality Review Report on Review of risk EYs audit findings for the prior year.
n Review of principal business risks, Risk Management and n Approved and adopted a policy for the employment of former internal controls.
Principal risks and Risk Management are set employees of the external auditor.
out on pages 32 to 36. n Reviewed EY plans for the 2016 audit and their review of the n Received a report from the CFO on the internal controls interim statement.
operating in the business and any associated action plans.
n Oversaw the tender process for the appointment of the external n Review of fraud risk, ethics policy and whistleblowing policy.
auditor, as discussed on page 57. n Review of cyber security risk.
n Held meetings with EY, without management present.
n Considered the appropriateness of the Groups Viability Internal Audit Statement and Going Concern Statement assumptions at the full year and half year, including a review of the sensitivity analysis n Appointed RSM to provide Internal Audit services to the Group.
and scenarios prepared by Management.
The Viability n Agreed a plan of work for the 2016 2017 Internal Audit Statement is set out on page 37 and the Going Concern programme with RSM and received reports from them on the Statement is set out on page 75.
Internal Audit programme conducted during the year.
Significant issues considered by the n The Committee met with RSM, without management present.
Committee during the year Independence and objectivity of the external Significant issues considered by the Committee auditor The Audit Committee considers all financial information published n Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures with regard in the annual and half year financial statements and considers to the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
accounting policies adopted by the Group, presentation and disclosure of the financial information and, in particular, the key judgements made by management in preparing the financial statements.
In addition to the matters described below, the Committee considered the tax prior year adjustment disclosed in Note 1 to the Group consolidated financial statements and concluded the adjustment has been appropriately calculated and disclosed.
The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the Group consolidated financial statements.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out overleaf: Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55 In light of the guidance issued by the European Securities and Revenue recognition and accounting for customer rebates Markets Authority and the UKs Financial Reporting Council, the Committee has understood and challenged managements The Group has a number of contracts with its customers rationale for including an item as an exceptional item.
Through containing volume rebate clauses based on revenue earned in discussion with management and the external auditor, the the period.
Given the material nature of the Groups rebates, the Committee has also sought to ensure that the policy for APMs is Committee requested that management review its accounting applied consistently and in compliance with the guidance provided.
practices in this area which confirmed the nature of the basis of the calculation.
The Committee reviewed managements paper The Committee concluded that the presentation of APMs gave describing the process with reference to contractual agreements additional clarity on performance and was reconciled appropriately and the controls in place to record the rebate and settle in cash.
to reported amounts, with sufficient prominence, thereby satisfying Considering the limited judgement involved in the process due to the requirements.
the nature of the rebates provided, and input from the external auditor, the Committee was satisfied that accounting balances at Indicators of impairment 31 December 2016 were appropriately recorded.
Following The Group holds significant asset values in the form of mineral discussion, and subject to there being no significant change to reserves, land and buildings, and property, plant and equipment.
the agreements, quantum or processes, customer rebates will The Committee considered the processes adopted by be removed from the Committees list of significant matters management in assessing whether, in their judgement, any going forward.
indicators of impairment existed and whether any subsequent detailed impairment testing should be undertaken.
Pension accounting The Committee reviewed managements conclusions in this area The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK and and concurred with managements judgement that no indicators post-retirement obligations in its US operations.
Judgement is of impairment existed at the balance sheet date and, as such, taken by management around the assumptions used, including no detailed impairment testing was required.
the impact of sensitivities to these assumptions, by its actuary to calculate the pension scheme assets and liabilities under IAS 19 R. Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not The Committee considered the basis of the actuarial calculation, aware of any misstatements, either material or immaterial, in the the assumptions used and the approach to minimum funding documents and information underpinning their assessment.
In the UK scheme there was a deficit In conclusion, after reviewing the reports from management and of 28.7 million, as detailed in Note 21 to the Group consolidated consulting where necessary with the external auditors, the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately with management and sought views from the external auditor address the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect before concluding on the appropriateness of the actuarial balances of the amounts reported and the disclosures.
In 2016, due to the decision to close the UK defined also satisfied that the processes used for determining the value of benefit pension scheme to future accrual, a curtailment gain of the assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, 30.3 million was recognised in the Group consolidated income challenged and are fairly stated.
statement, which management disclosed as an exceptional item.
After assessing the non-recurring nature of the gain, the Going Concern and Viability Statements Committee concurred that the classification was appropriate.
Additionally, the Committee also agreed the recording of the As requested by the Board, the Committee reviewed the Going 9.4million liability in respect of the US pension.
Concern and Viability Statements prepared with the assistance of management, together with the supporting documentation, as Alternative performance measures described on pages 75 and 37, respectively.
Following its review, The Group presents a number of alternative performance the Committee recommended the approval of both statements measures APMs within its published financial information, to the Board.
including its 2016 Annual Report & Accounts with the objective of providing readers with better understanding of financial performance in the period and so as to facilitate comparison with future periods and to assess trends in financial performance.
