Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 20 Business model The Group is a leading manufacturer of building products with a diversified range of clay and concrete products, and operations in the UK and the US.
that the employee share ownership How we create value Customer service encouraged by the Share Incentive and The Directors believe that the Groups Ibstock plc sells its products to a diverse Save As You Earn programmes, together market-leading businesses place it in a group of customers in the construction with the improved corporate governance strong position to benefit from the expected industry.
Each business has its own sales they are able to demonstrate this year, are demand growth in the UK and in its team that is aligned by customer group two of the ways in which the value flowing regional markets in the US.
and region in order to focus on key to the employee shareholders is increased.
This is monitored through extensive and regular Extraction Customers customer satisfaction surveys.
Clay and shale used in our brick production The Group sells its clay and concrete process is sourced from clay pits that the products to a diverse group of customers Distribution Group operates on land that it owns or in the construction industry in the UK and leases under long-term agreements in the The Groups 43 principal manufacturing US.
Builders merchants, housebuilders, vicinity of its brick manufacturing plants in plants across the UK and US are specialist brick distributors, and contractors the UK and the US.
strategically located close to main and installers are the five main customer transportation links to facilitate distribution.
groups for the Groups clay and concrete In the UK, the Group offers an industryProcurement products in the UK.
In the US, clay leading next business day sample service products sold to distributors constituted The Group is a major customer for a which helps specifiers and customers to the majority of sales for the year, with the number of key suppliers, which allows choose the right products for their projects.
remainder sold to housebuilders, us to be efficient in our purchasing and contractors and developers.
Additionally, for the Groups Outputs customers are not always the same as concrete products, the main raw materials the individuals and organisations that are bulky in nature and are locally sourced.
Shareholders are making the buying decisions for the Groups products.
In many cases, the Product design The Directors recognise the importance preference of the end users or their of rewarding our shareholders for their specifier dictates the choice of product The Group continually seeks to improve continued investment in the future of the rather than the intermediary that actually the quality of its existing products and also Group.
We view the risks to our dividend purchases the product from the Group.
introduce new products through innovation as intrinsically linked to the principal risks and investment in new technology.
Its new and uncertainties noted on pages 34 to 36, product development programme works Communities primarily those impacting the wider closely with customers and external sales macroeconomic environment and the The Group interacts directly with the to identify opportunities for new products.
cyclical nature of the industry for building communities within which we operate.
It is our objective to set out a Our Resources and relationships section Manufacturing process clear dividend policy to enable on pages 22 to 25, together with the stakeholders to assess both the case for Groups Environmental report, set out a The Group has the largest brick production investment and stewardship in holding the number of examples of this interaction as capacity in the UK and has a strategic Board to account.
Our dividend policy is the Group aims to be a good neighbour footprint across the UK and in the US markets set out in the Financial review on page 31. and contribute to those communities.
We also have the most Ibstock is a member of Business in modern and innovative roof tile, and concrete the Community.
Employees The Group employs a large number of Technical support people across its operations and as described in the Resources and As a manufacturer we stand out by relationships section on pages 22 to 25, employing five architects and a Computer the development and progression of our Aided Design office to assist specifiers and employees is seen as key to the Groups customers in their designs and efficient long-term success.
The Directors believe use of our products.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21 Resources and relationships Know-how People Plants and factories Long-term relationships Read more: Resources and relationships 22 See pages 22 to 25 How we create value Our brands Our key differentiators Ibstock Brick Extraction Bricks and pavings Market leadership Our marketleading businesses enable us to benefit from the expected growth in demand in the UK and our regional markets within the US.
Glen-Gery Procurement Scale We have over 150 million Bricks and walling stone tonnes of clay reserves, providing good support for production capacity of 1.2 billion bricks per annum across 28 clay and 15 concrete plants Ibstock Kevington throughout the UK and US.
Product design Special shaped bricks, brickwork Long-standing customer components and prefabricated systems relationships Our customer focus is based on quality, service and consistency and our service-led ethos is one of the key drivers in the growth Manufacturing process in our market share in bricks over Supreme Hand crafted and mass produced the past 10 years and many of our Precast concrete products long-standing customer relationships have lasted over 40 years.
Growing capacity We are investing in the latest technology to increase Forticrete Technical support capacity and to meet the growing Roof tiling, walling and cast stone market demands.
Highly experienced management team Our management team has extensive experience in the building Customer service products market and our Chief Anderton Concrete Executive Officer and Chief Financial Concrete, building and Officer have combined experience infrastructure products of over 40 years within the Group.
Distribution Read more on our brands.
2 See pages 2 and 3 Outputs Shareholders Employees Customers Communities Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 22 Resources and relationships Success can only be delivered through our people.
Our people, customers, shareholders used to help define Group policies and with the skills and experience necessary and communities are key stakeholders, procedures for all employees.
The Group to deliver the Groups business objectives who are essential to our business has training programmes in place to ensure both now and into the future.
Additionally, our lenders, all employees are competent to carry out over 7,500 days of training were provided pension schemes, suppliers, their duties and an auditing protocol is in to the Groups employees and we deliver government and other regulatory place to ensure policies and procedures a comprehensive development programme bodies have an important relationship are effective and adhered to.
A dedicated covering a range of topics from operational with the Group.
team of health and safety professionals skills improvement through to modular and support the operational employees in all structured Leadership Programmes to aspects of Health and Safety management support our succession plans.
of vacancies were filled from internal promotions ensuring our people are able to Safe working environment During the year, the UK H&S team fulfil their career aspirations and we retain underwent external training to enhance It is a strategic priority to focus on safety their in-depth-skills and knowledge of our their existing H&S audit skills, which has in the workplace and Health and Safety customers and operations, which is one of led to an updated audit protocol being H&S is at the core of our operations.
the key reasons for our continued success.
This protocol will ensure greater The Group employs over 2,500 people focus throughout the year on H&S and Delivering continuous improvement is the across the UK and US and it is the enable continuous improvement to be core of our operations, constantly looking Groups objective to provide a safe monitored though its links to our Safety for more efficient ways of doing things and working environment for all our employees Management System.
and the contractors at Ibstock sites.
The Board continues to carefully monitor As a large employer in both the EU and Equality and diversity the Groups performance against our Lost the US, the Group must comply with Time Accidents KPI, and this focus has We recognise the unique contribution of the European Framework Directive on played a part in reducing this KPI measure each and every person that we employ Safety and the Health at Work and the over recent years.
and aspire to provide a workplace where Occupational Health & Safety Act, everyone can thrive.
These guarantee minimum Recognition and development employees and other workers such as safety and health requirements, and under agency staff and consultants will be such laws and regulations, employers Our people lie at the heart of the Groups treated with dignity and respect regardless typically must establish the conditions and operations and as such we are committed of their age, disability, gender reassignment, the management of work in a manner that to developing an environment where every marital or civil partner status, race, colour, effectively prevents dangers to all workers.
employee can thrive and give their very nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion best each and every day.
Our continual Interpretation of the legislative requirements or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
investment in their training and development is further supported in the UK by Approved contributes to a highly engaged workforce Codes of Practice.
These documents are Number of Lost Time Accidents by year 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23 We believe that by providing a harmonious working environment all employees should be able to maximise their potential and contribute to our success.
Where an employee becomes disabled, subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts are made to enable that employee to continue in their current job.
However if, due to the specific circumstances, it is not possible for an employee to continue in their current role, every effort will be made to provide retraining for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
We are committed to identifying and eliminating discriminatory practices, procedures and attitudes and we expect all employees, officers, consultants, contractors, casual workers and agency workers to support our commitment and assist in all possible ways to prevent discrimination.
Gender split across the Group Company Directors Female 2 Male 6 The Ibstock Brick University As the Ibstock Brick University IBU Such has been the popularity and high approaches its 20th year it can look to regard of the training offered by Ibstock an alumnus of almost 500 employees that many of its customers have sent their Senior managers and customers who have undergone key personnel on the course, so much Female its extensive five day training into the so that training places are now booked 2 manufacture, uses and sales of brick.
Originally, it was created to ensure that Male Running in parallel to the IBU is the all new Ibstock personnel met the high 16 Ibstock Customer Service University standards of product knowledge and ICSU.
Over the past 16 years this expertise that has always been at the has provided in-depth and detailed heart of the Ibstock approach to training in the use and application of customers and specifiers.
Ibstock products especially tailored to the needs of the customer service team.
The training is unique in the industry, All employees Split into three levels, these intensive its scope covers a detailed understanding Female three-day courses have made a major of the different types of clay brick 366 contribution to Ibstocks industry-wide manufacturing techniques, the technical reputation for customer service and care.
properties of bricks, the use of special Male shaped bricks along with a thorough 2,364 understanding of the build process as well as technical drawings, site issues and much more!
