Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 38 Board of Directors 1 2 3 6 7 8 1 Jamie Pike Expertise: Wayne has been with the Group for more Committee memberships: Jonathan is the Senior than 20 years and has over 20 years of experience at Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee, MA, MBA, MIMechE the managing director level across a broad range of and is also a member of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Chairman and businesses and business groups within the building and the Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and construction products sector across Europe and Expertise: Jonathan has over 18 years experience at latterly the United States.
He is a chartered engineer, Independent: On appointment the senior management or director level of businesses, Principal of the Construction Products Association, including those in brick manufacturing, roofing and Date of appointment: Jamie Pike age 61 joined the Director and former President of the British Ceramic construction, and property development.
Previously, Board in September 2015 as a Non-Executive Director, Confederation, and Director of the Brick Development Jonathan served as the Chief Financial Officer of and became Non-Executive Chairman upon Association.
He is also a member of the Institution of Hanson plc from 1998 to 2006 and Chief Financial Admission.
Mechanical Engineers and the Institution of Officer of Old Mutual plc from 2006 to 2008.
Committee memberships: Jamie is Chairman of the July 2009 and July 2016 he was a Non-Executive Nomination Committee and a member of the Key current external appointments: None Director of Great Portland Estates plc.
He is a member Remuneration Committee.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a Fellowship member of the Expertise: Jamie has over 25 years of experience at Association of Corporate Treasurers.
the senior management or director level of businesses, 3 Kevin Sims including cement manufacturing, construction, mining Key current external appointments: Since 2009, ACMA and building materials industries.
He previously served Jonathan has served as a Non-Executive Director of as Non-Executive Chairman of Lafarge Tarmac Chief Financial Officer DS Smith plc, where he is the Senior Independent Limited, MBA Polymers Inc, and the Defence Support Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Since Date of appointment: Kevin Sims age 55 joined the Group and as a Non-Executive Director of two FTSE 2009 he has served as a Non-Executive Director of Board in September 2015.
250 companies, RMC Group plc and Kelda Group plc.
SIG plc where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jamie served as the Chief Executive Officer of Foseco Committee memberships: None He will retire from the Board of that company on plc from 2001 until its acquisition by Cookson Group 31March 2017.
On 1 September 2016, Jonathan was Expertise: Kevin has been with the Group for 30 years plc in April 2008.
Prior to that, he held various roles at appointed a director of Shaftesbury PLC.
He became and has more than 30 years of experience within Burmah Castrol from 1991 where he rose to become Chairman of that company on 1 October 2016. manufacturing businesses.
Kevin was appointed Chief Chief Executive Officer of the Chemicals division Financial Officer of Ibstock Building Products in before leading the Foseco buy-out from Burmah October 2014, having held various finance-related Castrol in 2001, which culminated in flotation on the managerial roles within the Group, including Financial 5 Matthias Boyer Chammard main market in 2005.
He spent his early career as a Director of Ibstock Brick and CRH Product Group consultant with Bain and Co and A T Kearney.
Jamie is MSc, MPA Financial Director Clay Europe.
He is a member of a member of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
the Institute of Chartered Management Accountants Non-Executive Director Key current external appointments: Jamie currently and Chairman of Ibstock Pension Scheme Trustees.
Independent: No serves as Non-Executive Chairman at Tyman plc and Key current external appointments: None has indicated that he will step down from the Board of Date of appointment: Matthias Boyer Chammard that company in May 2017.
He is also chairman of RPC age 36 joined the Board in September 2015 as a Group plc and serves as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
4 Director at Spirax Sarco Engineering plc.
Jonathan Nicholls Committee memberships: None BA Hons, ACA, FCT Expertise: Matthias currently serves as a Principal of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Bain Capital Private Equity Europe LLP, a role he has 2 Wayne Sheppard and Chairman of the Audit Committee held for over five years.
In his capacity as a Principal at BSc, CEng MIMechE, MIET Bain Capital Private Equity Europe LLP, Matthias also Independent: Yes serves as a Non-Executive Director for Maison du Chief Executive Officer Date of appointment: Jonathan Nicholls age 59 Monde SAS.
Prior to joining Bain Capital, he worked Date of appointment: Wayne Sheppard age 57 joined the Board in September 2015 as a Nonat Boston Consulting Group in the energy and the joined the Board in September 2015.
Executive Director, and became Senior Independent industrial goods practices.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee memberships: None Key current external appointments: Bain Capital Committee upon Admission.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 39 Key: 4 5 Non-Executive Director Executive Director Company Secretary 9 10 6 Tracey Graham responsible for the leadership and management of the Expertise: Justin was Group Finance Director of Human Resources and Corporate Communications Segro plc from August 2011 to December 2016.
Before joining Air Products, Lynn Between 2008 and 2011 he was Group Finance Independent: Yes spent 22 years at IBM, where she served in a variety Director at Speedy Hire plc.
Prior to this, Justin spent of HR leadership positions.
13 years in a variety of roles at Hanson plc, including Date of appointment: Tracey Graham age 51 joined Deputy Finance Director, Managing Director of Hanson the Board as a Non-Executive Director in February 2016.
Key current external appointments: BAE Systems plc.
Continental Europe, Head of Corporate Development, Committee memberships: Tracey is a member of the Head of Risk Management and Group Treasurer.
Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Justin has also held positions at Euro Disney S. C. A.
Michel Plantevin and Bankers Trust Company.
Justins previous roles have given him financial and management experience MSc EEng, MBA Expertise: Tracey was Chief Executive of Talaris working across a number of different industry sectors, Limited until 2010, where she led the companys Non-Executive Director including real estate, support services, building management buy-out from fide La Rue plc.
Tracey has materials and banking: and across a number of Independent: No also held senior positions in banking and insurance jurisdictions.
with HSBC and AXA Insurance.
Tracey was a NonDate of appointment: Michel Plantevin age 60 Executive Director of RPS plc, and Dialight plc, an Key current external appointments: Justin is a joined the Board in September 2015 as a international LED lighting company.
Non-Executive Director of Grainger PLC and Chairman Non-Executive Director.
of SEGRO Pension Scheme Trustees Limited.
Key current external appointments: Tracey is a NonCommittee memberships: Michel is a member of Executive Director of Royal London Group, the largest the Nomination Committee.
mutual life insurance and pensions company in the UK, Expertise: Michel currently serves as Managing 10 where she is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Robert Douglas Director of Bain Capital Private Equity Europe LLP, Tracey is also a Non-Executive Director of Link BSc Econ, FCA a role he has held for over 13 years.
Michel has been Scheme Limited, the operator of the LINK system as involved in a wide variety of transactions in the Company Secretary set out in the Financial Services Banking Reform Act industrial and energy sectors over that period.
In his 2013, where she is also Chair of the LINK Consumer Robert Douglas age 61 joined the Group as IPO capacity as Managing Director at Bain Capital Private Council: and a Non-Executive Director of ACAL plc, Project Manager in June 2015 and was appointed Equity Europe LLP, Michel serves as Non-Executive an international supplier of customised electronics Company Secretary in October 2015.
He is a Fellow Director for a number of companies including Maison to industry.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England du Monde SAS.
He is also the Nonand Wales.
Robert brings with him considerable Executive Chairman of IMCD N. V. Prior to joining Bain experience gained acting as interim CFO in a number Capital, Michel was a Managing Director at 7 of listed and private companies.
He was Deputy Group Lynn Minella Goldman Sachs.
Finance Director and Company Secretary of a Non-Executive Director and Key current external appointments: Bain Capital FTSE250 house builder and developer.
Earlier in his Chair of the Remuneration Committee Private Equity Europe LLP.
career he held a number of Finance Director and senior finance appointments in businesses engaged Independent: Yes in construction and engineering.
Date of appointment: Lynn Minella age 58 joined the 9 Justin Read Board as a Non-Executive Director in February 2016.
MA, MBA Committee memberships: Lynn chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Non-Executive Director Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Independent: Yes Expertise: Lynn is a member of the Executive Date of appointment: Justin age 55 joined the Committee of BAE Systems plc and Group Director of Board in January 2017 as a Non-Executive Director.
Prior to joining BAE Systems, Lynn was the Senior Vice President for Human Resources Committee memberships: Justin is a member of and Communications for Air Products, a global the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and industrial gases company based in the USA.
joined Air Products in 2004 as a member of the companys Corporate Executive Committee and was Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 40 Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Statement to our shareholders for our first full year as a listed company.
Your Board manages the Company in a transparent, open and honest manner, which we achieve by maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our activities: for delivering our strategy and financial performance in the long-term interests of the Company, for efficiently using our resources and having regard to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The Board approves the Groups governance framework with the Board Committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as remuneration policy, internal controls and risk management and succession planning.
It is the Boards intention to continue to work towards full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Your Board manages the the Governance Code.
Due to the relatively short period of time between Admission and the year-end, last years Annual Report & Company in a transparent, Accounts identified a number of areas where the Company was not fully compliant with the Governance Code.
With the significant open and honest manner, progress made in the months following Admission and the excellent strides that have been made during the year, I am which we achieve by pleased to report that, with one exception, the Company was in compliance with the principles of the Governance Code at the maintaining high standards year-end.
That one exception was in relation to Board balance, which is discussed later in the Statement.
Justin Read was of corporate governance.
appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017, at which time the Board achieved full compliance with the principles of the Governance Code.
While other sections of the Annual Report & Accounts cover our financial and operational achievements during the period, this section describes the effective leadership of the Board and how it endeavours to promote the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
My responsibility as Chairman is to ensure that the Board operates effectively and efficiently and that it upholds the high standards of corporate governance required for the long-term success of the Group.
I believe the achievement of good governance is based on the appropriate level of oversight, good communication, a focus on the management of risks, a commitment to transparency and ensuring a culture of continuous improvement in standards and performance across the business.
The Board regularly reviews its level of oversight and the monitoring of risks over a variety of areas including strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure on new projects, finance, people and sustainability matters.
It will continue to adapt to meet the evolving needs of the Group.
The Board aims to ensure that good governance extends beyond the Boardroom and is continually borne in mind in the successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities over both the short and long term.
Jamie Pike Non-Executive Chairman 7 March 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Code 2014 provision Description Comments The purpose of the Governance Code is to facilitate effective, B.
1.2 Except for The Governance Code recommends that, smaller in the case of a FTSE 350 company, at entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the companies at least half the Board of Directors, excluding long-term success of the Company.
The main principles of the least half the the Chairman, should comprise NonGovernance Code set out standards of practice for the Board in board, Executive Directors determined by the relation to leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration excluding the Board to be independent for the purposes and its relations with shareholders.
chairman, of the Governance Code.
should At the beginning of 2016 the Board The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate comprise comprised six members, including the non-executive governance.
We have made significant progress since Admission Non-Executive Chairman, who was directors and, as at the date of this Annual Report & Accounts, the Company independent on appointment, the Senior determined by complies and intends to continue to comply with the Governance Independent Director, two Executive the board to be Directors and two Non-Executive Code.
As explained in last years Annual Report & Accounts, there independent.
Directors, Michel Plantevin and Matthias were a number provisions of the Governance Code with which Boyer Chammard, who are not the Company was not fully compliant in the months following considered to be independent for the Admission.
Details relevant to our 2016 financial year are provided purposes of the Governance Code as a result of being nominated to the Board by opposite, together with an explanation of the action we have Diamond BC S. r. l. During the year taken to achieve compliance as at the date of this Annual Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella were Report & Accounts.
appointed as Non-Executive Directors and Justin Read was appointed as a This Statement, together with the Committee reports and the Non-Executive Director on 1 January Directors Report, explains key features of the Companys 2017.
All are considered to be independent governance structure and compliance with the version of the for the purposes of the Governance Code Governance Code published in September 2014 by the Financial and, therefore, the Company has been in compliance since 1 January 2017.
This Statement also includes items required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency For a short period of time at the beginning of 2016 the composition of Rules DTR.
A copy of the Governance Code is available on the the committees were not fully compliant with the Governance Code Financial Reporting Council website at www.
2.1 Nomination Committee, C. 3.1 Audit Committee and D. 2.1 Remuneration Committee.
This was remedied in February 2016 The Company has been applying the UK Corporate Governance with the appointment of Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella to the Board Code 2016 since its financial year-end and will report on and its committees.
compliance in next years Annual Report & Accounts.
The Listing Rules require that we state how the Main Principles The executives hold regular meetings with analysts and set out in the Governance Code have been applied.
The required shareholders at appropriate times during the year and relevant detail, in line with the specific provisions of the Governance Code, feedback from those meetings is provided to the Board.
is set out in this Corporate Governance Statement.
Jonathan Nicholls is the Senior Independent Director SID.
Jonathan is available to shareholders throughout the year if they Share Dealing Code have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or other Executive Directors have failed to resolve or for The Company has adopted a code of securities dealings in relation which such channels of communication are inappropriate.
The code applies to the Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities and relevant employees of The SID has communicated with the major shareholder, Diamond the Group.
BC S. r. l. on a regular basis through their representatives on the Board of Directors.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual General Relationship with Meeting the AGM, at which they will have the opportunity to meet and put questions to the Board.
Details of the resolutions to shareholders be proposed at the AGM to be held on 24 May 2017 at 2:00 p. m. at Citigate Dewe Rogerson, 3 London Wall Buildings, London Wall, The Board recognises the importance of creating a clear flow London EC2M 5SY, can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
The of communication with all shareholders, particularly with regard Notice of Meeting, together with explanatory notes on the to business developments and financial results.
The Board aims resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for to communicate on a regular basis and at present the Company appointing proxies, is contained in a circular which will be utilises news releases, investor presentations and Company circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the publications and will expand communication channels AGM, together with this Annual Report & Accounts.
document will also be available on the Ibstock plc website www.
Results of voting at the AGM will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be published on our website at www.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 42 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board responsibilities and procedures Leadership The following is a high level summary of the principal decisions that are specifically reserved for the Board: Board composition n Responsibility for the overall management of the Group, The Governance Code recommends that the board of directors including monitoring the Groups operating and financial of a UK premium listed company includes an appropriate performance.
combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, with independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman n Approval of the Groups long-term objectives, values, standards, comprising at least half the board.
As at commercial strategy and annual budgets.
31December 2016, the Board comprised a Non-Executive n Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure Chairman, three independent Non-Executive Directors, two budgets and any subsequent material changes to them.
non-independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Board regards Jonathan Nicholls, Tracey Graham n Making changes to the Groups capital, legal and corporate and Lynn Minella as independent for the purposes of the structure, including reduction, consolidation, sub-division or Governance Code.
In January 2017, Justin Read was appointed conversion of share capital.
as a Non-Executive Director, and is regarded by the Board as n Approval of the half-yearly report, trading updates, the independent for the purposes of the Governance Code.
preliminary announcement of the final results and the Annual Report & Accounts.
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors and n Approval of the dividend policy and declaration of any interim observer by the Controlling Shareholder and final dividends.
On 22 October 2015, the Company entered into a Relationship n Approval of accounting and treasury policies, the Groups Agreement with Diamond BC S. r. l. the Controlling internal control systems and risk management strategy and Shareholder, under the terms of which the Controlling Group tax strategy.
Shareholder has a right to nominate for appointment two Directors each a Shareholder Director to the Board of the Company whilst n Approval of significant acquisitions and disposals and material its and its associates shareholding in the Company is 25% or capital investments.
more: and to nominate for appointment one Shareholder Director n Approval of significant borrowing facilities and other material to the Board of the Company whilst its and its associates contracts and transactions.
shareholding in the Company is 10% or more.
If the Controlling Shareholders shareholding in the Company is reduced to less n Approval of resolutions to be put forward for shareholder than 25%, but is 10% or more and two Shareholder Directors are approval at a General Meeting and all communications with appointed to the Board of the Company, the Controlling Shareholder shareholders and the market.
will, if requested by the Board, procure that one of its nominated n Managing membership and approving adequate succession Directors resigns from the Board.
If the Controlling Shareholder planning for the Board.
and its associates shareholding in the Company is reduced to less than 10%, the Controlling Shareholder will, if requested by the n Responsibility for the Groups corporate governance.
Board, procure that all of its remaining nominated Directors resign n Following the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, from the Board.
In addition, for as long as the Controlling determining the remuneration policy for the Directors, and other Shareholder and its associates shareholding in the Company is senior managers.
10% or more, the Controlling Shareholder shall also be entitled to appoint one Shareholder Director as a member of the Nomination n Approval of the Groups health and safety and sustainability and Committee and, if invited by the Chairman of the relevant committee environmental policies.
to send a Shareholder Director as an observer to meetings of the n Ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based on the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that, during the year, and as at the date of Matters not specifically reserved for the Board, including the day this report: to day management of the Group, are delegated to the Executive n the Company has complied with the independence provisions Directors.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors included in the Relationship Agreement: receive appropriate and timely information.
n so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied Board Committees with by the Controlling Shareholder and its associates: and As envisaged by the Governance Code, the Board has established n so far as the Company is aware, the procurement obligation three principal Committees of the Board: an Audit Committee: a included in the Relationship Agreement has been complied with Nomination Committee: and a Remuneration Committee.
Each by the Controlling Shareholder.
Committee has formally delegated duties and responsibilities set out in its written Terms of Reference.
If the need should arise, the Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43 Board may establish additional committees, to consider specific Directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent issues, as appropriate.
In line with each of the Committees terms professional advice and are encouraged to continually update of reference, only members of the relevant Committee have the their professional skills and knowledge of the business.
Senior right to attend and vote at its meetings.
Committee meetings are managers and external advisers present to the Board during the also attended by the Company Secretary, who acts as the secretary year on a range of subjects and the Directors also individually to each of the Committees.
When appropriate, Directors who are attend seminars or conferences associated with their expertise.
not members of the relevant Committee, including Executive The Chairman reviews the level and nature of training undertaken Directors, may be invited to attend all or any part of any Committee by the Directors at least annually.
The matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference for each of the Board Committees are available on the Companys corporate website, at www.
Effectiveness Details of each of the Board Committees and their activities during Division of responsibilities the year are set out in the separate Committee Reports on pages 38 and 39, which are incorporated into the Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
The Chairman of each Committee reports Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
Details of Committee For the Board to remain effective, the Governance Code requires memberships are included in the Directors biographies on pages a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 38 and 39.
These positions are held by Jamie Pike as Chairman and Wayne Sheppard as Chief Executive Officer.
The Decision-making and Directors conflicts division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief of interest Executive Officer are set out and are available to view on the Companys corporate website at www.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, The Chairman reports to the Board and is the guardian of the unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
This includes Boards decision-making processes.
He is responsible for potential conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all position with another company.
The Companys Articles of aspects of its role.
The Chairman also promotes a culture of Association, which are in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise Non-Executive Directors, in particular, and ensuring constructive and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate, when giving any relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive interest is only effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors accurate, timely and clear information and that there is effective voting or without their votes being counted.
In making such a communication with shareholders.
decision, the Directors must act in a way they consider in good The Chief Executive Officer, assisted by senior management, is faith will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
responsible for proposing and developing the Companys strategy The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate and commercial objectives for consideration by the Board, and for authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new implementing the decisions of the Board into the day to day Director, or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review functions of the business.
of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
An Interests Register records any authorised conflicts potential conflicts and will be The Chief Financial Officer reviewed by the Board on a regular basis to ensure that the procedure is working effectively.
During the year, and as at the The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the financial reporting date of this report, no conflicts were reported to the Board.
and management of the Group.
In addition to the finance, audit, tax and treasury functions, he is also jointly responsible with the Chief Executive Officer for the Groups M&A strategy and investor relations.
Board induction and development On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to The Senior Independent Director provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 25 days a year and to recognise the need for availability in the event of a The Senior Independent Director is available for shareholders to crisis, are provided with a detailed induction programme.
The voice any concerns which may not be appropriate for discussion induction programme is tailored to suit the needs of individual through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Directors and covers the provision of information on the Companys or Chief Financial Officer.
The Senior Independent Director also operations, including social, ethical and environmental matters, the leads the Chairmans appraisal, serves as an intermediary for the Groups principal risks and internal controls in place to manage other Directors with the Chairman as necessary and acts as a those risks, meetings with senior management and tours of the sounding board for the Chairman as required.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 44 Corporate Governance Statement continued bonded team with strong leadership both of the Board and the Non-Executive Directors Group.
The report was positive about the performance of the Board, At the date of this Report, independent Non-Executive Directors its main Committees and individual Directors.
This early externally comprise 50% of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The Board facilitated evaluation will serve as a good benchmark for the future.
believes that these Non-Executive Directors, Jonathan Nicholls, The early adoption of an external review did highlight some areas Tracey Graham, Lynn Minella and Justin Read, possess strong where it was too soon to make strong judgements about certain independent character and judgement and bring a wide range Board processes.
Whilst not raised as an area of weakness in the of business experience both in areas related to and areas exercise undertaken this year, we propose to follow through the complementary to the activities of the Group.
suggestion made by EquityCommunications Limited that our next Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer Chammard are Non-Executive Board evaluation focuses in even greater depth on our risk Directors appointed by Diamond BC S. r. l. pursuant to the management processes, which by then will have completed a Relationship Agreement, and are not considered to be independent.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of As a result of recommendations made in the Board evaluation management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor report, the Board has agreed to enhance its approach to strategy the reporting of performance.
They also satisfy themselves on the planning and to continue to focus on succession planning, both integrity of financial information and that financial controls and at Board level and in key businesses in the Group.
systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are The Chairman has met with each of the independent Nonresponsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
executive directors and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing executive directors, and in Overall, the Board considered the performance of each Director succession planning.
to be effective and concluded that the Board and its Committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required Directors insurance cover and indemnity levels of governance and control and that each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to his or her The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors and Officers role.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain and development in the year ahead.
circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Governance Code, the Directors.
This The Senior Independent Director has met with the independent insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or Non-Executive Directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
appraise the Chairmans performance, taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
The review concluded that the The Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors to Chairmans performance continued to be effective and that he the extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred as demonstrates commitment to the role.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have acted Development and advice fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board, have Board evaluation access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Independent external legal and professional advice can also be taken This year, in compliance with the Governance Code, the when necessary to do so.
Furthermore, each Committee of the performance evaluation was conducted by external facilitator, Board has access to sufficient and tailored resources to carry out its David Mensley of EquityCommunications Limited.
A personalised induction and subsequent training programme MrMensley nor EquityCommunications Limited has any other is provided to new members of the Board and its Committees.
The performance evaluation process was undertaken in late Meetings and attendance autumn 2016.
Having agreed a schedule of matters for appraisal, The Board has met on eight occasions during the year and EquityCommunications Limited prepared a questionnaire which expects to meet approximately eight times each year going included questions about Board administration, the role of the forward.
It may meet at other times as required or otherwise at the Chairman, strategy, risk oversight, succession planning and the request of one or more of the Directors.
Where urgent decisions Board Committee structure.
The questionnaire was completed by are required between meetings on matters specifically reserved all Board members and also the Company Secretary.
A report on for the Board, there is a process in place to facilitate discussion the outcome of the evaluation exercise was prepared by and decision-making.
The Directors regularly communicate and EquityCommunications Limited and was presented to the Board exchange information irrespective of the timing of meetings.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees and the The evaluation was undertaken before the Board had completed attendance by the Directors during the year is disclosed in the its first full financial year of post IPO operations, and following table: EquityCommunications Limited commented on how well and quickly following IPO the Board had assembled into a remarkably well
