ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 40 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Code Membership of the boards principal committees consists primarily This corporate governance statement illustrates how the of the independent non-executive directors and, in some cases, Company has applied the main principles and complied with the the Chairman.
Membership of the three executive committees provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 March 2016. consists of the executive directors and senior management only.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 59 to 70.
The Code The Nomination Committee makes recommendations for can be found on the FRCs website at www.
appointments to the Audit and Risk Committees.
The board makes all other committee appointments.
The membership and work of each of the boards committees Code principle: Leadership are shown on pages 47 to 53.
All members of the Group are required to adhere to policies and delegated authorities Role of the board and committees mandated by the board.
The principal responsibility of the board is to oversee the Groups strategy and ensure that necessary resources are available and Executive committees appropriate risk management controls, processes and culture are The work of the Groups executive committees complements in place to deliver it.
The board seeks to ensure that the right and supports the work of the board and its principal committees.
balance is achieved between the ultimate focus on long-term The GEMG is responsible for proposing commercial strategy to growth and the delivery by management of its short-term the board, overseeing the strategic and operational performance objectives.
Details of the Groups business model and strategic of the Group and setting its commercial direction within the priorities are given in the strategic report on pages 1 to 35. scope of delegated authorities.
Details of the skills and experience The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are of the GEMG members can be found on pages 54 and 55. clearly defined and distinctly separate.
This division of responsibilities The GOC has executive responsibility for the Groups operations has been set out in writing and approved by the board.
Further and reports to the board, the Audit Committee and the Risk details of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officers Committee, as required.
The GFC has executive responsibility respective responsibilities can be found on page 41. for the Groups financial structure and control environment.
To assist the board in carrying out its duties and to ensure that there The GFC reports to the GEMG, Audit Committee and Governance is appropriate oversight of internal controls and risk management, Committee, as required.
the board delegates certain roles and responsibilities to its five principal committees as shown in the diagram below, being the Board members Governance, Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
For the majority of the year, the board comprised the Chairman, A delegated committee structure affords committee members the two executive directors the Group Chief Executive Officer and time and opportunity to probe the subject matter of a meeting the Group Finance Director and four independent non-executive more deeply.
Each committee has written terms of reference which directors.
Stuart Bridges was appointed Group Finance Director clearly set out its authority and duties.
These terms of reference on 1 September 2015.
Diane Schueneman resigned from the can be found on the Companys website at www.
Governance framework ICAP plc board Executive committees Principal board committees Global Executive Global Group Governance Nomination Audit Risk Remuneration Management Operating Finance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Committee Committee Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 41 Key responsibilities Title Name Responsibility Chairman Charles Gregson The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The Chairman encourages all directors to maximise their contributions to the board and ensures that the board determines the nature and extent of risks the Company is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy.
The Chairman engages and consults with major shareholders and key regulators when necessary.
The Chairman also ensures that the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee maintains contact, as required, with the Companys principal shareholders and stakeholders regarding remuneration.
Group Chief Michael Spencer The Group Chief Executive Officer leads the GEMG and oversees the operational performance of the Executive Officer Group.
He recommends the Groups commercial strategy to the board and ensures its implementation.
Group Finance Stuart Bridges The Group Finance Director manages the Groups financial affairs and is responsible for the Director Groups finance, company secretarial, investor relations and regulatory affairs functions.
Senior John Sievwright In addition to his role as an independent non-executive director, the senior independent director independent is available to shareholders should they have any concerns which cannot be resolved through director normal channels of communication.
No such concerns were raised during the year.
Independent Ivan Ritossa The independent non-executive directors provide constructive challenge to the executive non-executive directors and support the Chairman and the executive directors in instilling appropriate culture, Robert Standing directors values and behaviours in the boardroom and beyond.
During the year, the non-executive directors included Diane Schueneman.
Group Company Deborah Abrehart The Group Company Secretary works closely with the Chairman of the board and the chairmen Secretary of the committees to set the agendas for meetings and to ensure the timely presentation of high-quality information to the board.
All directors have the power to propose items for discussion at board meetings and regularly did so during the year.
Attendance at board meetings All directors who will be proposed for re-election or appointment Six scheduled board meetings were held during the year in at the 2016 annual general meeting attended each board meeting three locations: London, Jersey City and Singapore.
also convened a further five times during the year by conference Board meetings are held at various Group locations to assist with call and held five ad hoc meetings, principally in connection the boards greater understanding of the business and to provide with the Transaction.
an opportunity for the directors to meet with local management The table below sets out the directors who served on the and employees to gain a wider view of the businesses and local board in 2015 16 and their meeting attendance.
Due to unavoidable circumstances, Diane Schueneman was Further insight into the boards key activities and discussions unable to attend the board meeting on 30 September 2015. during the year is provided on page 42.
She did, however, provide input to the Chairman in advance of the meeting so that her views were known to the other board members.
Board meeting attendance in 2015 16 Standing items on the boards agenda Maximum Discussions possible Number of % of meeting meetings meetings Group Chief Executive Officers report attendance attended attended Strategic developments and investment opportunities Executive directors Trading results and financial performance Business presentations Stuart Bridges 4 4 100% Legal, company secretarial and regulatory updates Michael Spencer 6 6 100% Investor reports and feedback from engagement with shareholders Non-executive directors Group communications and marketing update Charles Gregson 6 6 100% Approval review Ivan Ritossa 6 6 100% Approval of minutes of previous board and board Diane Schueneman 4 3 75% committee meetings Review of progress of agreed actions John Sievwright 6 6 100% Review of GEMG and GOC minutes Robert Standing 6 6 100% % based on the number of board meetings each director was entitled to attend.
Stuart Bridges was appointed to the board on 1 September 2015.
Diane Schueneman resigned from the board on 31 December 2015.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 42 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Key board activities and discussions in 2015 16 Linked to Topic remuneration Board discussions and activities Outcomes Growth and Debated and agreed a strategy Approved the Transaction to combine ICAPs protection to bring together two world-class, global hybrid voice broking business with customer-focused broking businesses, Tullett Prebon, allowing for an improved use with improved profitability and scale of technology and innovation in products Continued to focus on expanding ICAPs and services for the benefit of ICAPs addressable market by developing new customers, employees and shareholders products and services which will cater Approved a further investment in for a wider customer base AcadiaSoft, Inc and the acquisition of ENSO Financial Analytics People and Debated the boards cultural responsibilities Continued engagement with global cultural culture including the FCAs perspective of culture initiatives in order to provide a better and and its focus on conduct sustainable business environment Discussed the boards composition and Following Diane Schuenemans departure reviewed board, executive and senior from the board, changes were implemented management succession planning to strengthen the composition of the Discussed the results of a global employee boards principal committees communications survey and feedback received Appointed four new members to the from employee focus groups GEMG to ensure a strong leadership team and an appropriate level of representation across all ICAP businesses Controls and Reviewed and approved the Groups ICAAP Used the 2015 ICAAP to assess and inform governance for 2015 the Groups risk appetite framework and Regularly reviewed the Groups risk appetite identified improvements for the 2016 statements and debated the risk profile ICAAP process of the Group Maintained close oversight of the Groups Discussed the requirements of the Code and key and emerging risks, with an increased the Competition and Markets Authoritys focus on the information risk profile of Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, the Group and potential cyber and particularly in respect of tendering the technological threats Groups external audit contract Launched a competitive external audit Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups tender process resulting in a new external internal audit function, risk management auditor being proposed for appointment and internal control frameworks for the year ending 31 March 2018, subject to shareholder approval Appointed a new Head of Internal Audit to lead the Groups internal audit function Profitability Monitored and assessed the Groups Challenged and approved the Groups financial performance in line with budget 2016 17 budget, capital structure and and market expectations funding plan Reviewed and approved the 2015 Reviewed the Groups dividend policy preliminary results and Annual Report Regularly reviewed ICAPs share price and performance metrics Stakeholder Regularly reviewed and discussed shareholder Focused areas of the Chairmans 2016 relationships and investor feedback including in relation to statement to address issues raised the Transaction and the directors executive by shareholders remuneration arrangements Enhanced the Groups internal systems Considered the appropriate actions in response and controls following ICAPs participation to key regulatory changes faced by the Group in an FCA planned cross-market and industry as a whole remediation exercise Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 43 Code principle: Relations with shareholders Key themes arising from shareholder feedback received during SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT the year are summarised on page 44.
Subject to regulatory The Companys annual general meeting is a key date in the constraints, the executive directors and members of senior diary for the board.
Shareholders who attend the meeting management hold regular meetings with investors and analysts typically receive a brief update from the Group Chief Executive to update them on the Groups strategy and performance.
Officer on the activities and performance of the Group since These meetings take a variety of forms, including roadshows the prior financial year end.
All directors attended the 2015 and investor conferences where individual discussions and group annual general meeting and were available to answer questions meetings are held with current and potential investors.
The table from shareholders on matters put to the meeting.
For those below shows the proportion of these meetings which were shareholders who are unable to attend annual general meetings, attended by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance particularly the overseas shareholder base, ICAP has put in place Director and the Chief Executive Officer of EBS BrokerTec.
The systems to allow for electronic proxy voting through the ICAP Chief Executive Officer of PTRI presented the PTRI strategy to share portal website www.
The geographic investors since joining ICAP in August 2015.
A series of meetings breakdown of ICAPs institutional shareholders by region is shown followed the announcement of the Transaction and centred on in the diagram below.
Full details of the ways in which the the rationale for the Transaction and drivers for future growth Company engages with its shareholders are set out on page 44. for Newco.
The board maintains an effective and transparent dialogue with In the past year the Chairman of the board, the Chairman of the shareholders and, as such, gives high priority to shareholder and Remuneration Committee, the Group Company Secretary and the investor communications.
The board receives regular investor Group Head of HR also met with key institutional shareholders to reports which detail the feedback from investor meetings.
It also discuss feedback received on the directors remuneration policy receives the results of investor perception studies which are which was approved at the annual general meeting held in 2015. undertaken by external consultants.
This feedback helps inform The non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders board discussion particularly as it relates to the views of investors but no such requests for engagement were received during the year.
Movements on the share register are monitored and reviewed at board meetings to maintain the boards understanding of the Companys share register.
Institutional shareholders by region Investor relations programme in 2015 16 May November 4 7 11 2015 results presentation Half-year results 11 London presentation London 18 2016 2015 Investor roadshow London Investor group meeting 21 61 London 67 June Investor roadshows Investor conferences Boston, London, New York New York, Nice, London 2016 2015 December July UK 67% 61% Investor conference Q1 interim management London US 18% 21% statement IMS Investor roadshow Rest of Europe 11% 11% conference call Frankfurt Rest of the world 2015 annual general 4% 7% meeting London February Investor group meeting Q3 IMS conference call London Investor group meeting London September Investor roadshow Investor conferences Executive attendance at key investor meetings in 2015 16 San Francisco London, New York March Meetings Investor roadshow attended Edinburgh Group Chief Executive Officer 43% Investor conference Group Finance Director 52% London Chief Executive Officer, EBS BrokerTec 26% Chief Executive Officer, PTRI 4% ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 44 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued 2016 annual general meeting The Companys eighteenth annual general meeting will be held Shareholder feedback themes for 2015 16 on Wednesday 13 July 2016 at 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR.
Strategy: recognised the rationale for the Transaction In accordance with the Code and the Companys articles of and requested an explanation of the growth drivers association, Stuart Bridges will stand for appointment and all for the next two to four years other directors will stand for re-election in July 2016.
Full details Investments: supportive of strategic investments of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting made during the year, with particular recognition are set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
The notice given to Euclid Opportunities fintech investments is made available to shareholders on the Companys website Regulation: recognised the potential opportunities or sent to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies, of MiFID II for the Company at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Global environment: sought to understand the effect Details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together of the US interest rate rise on the Companys businesses with votes withheld, will be made available after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands and the results of the meeting will published on the Companys website.
2015 annual general meeting All resolutions proposed at the 2015 annual general meeting How we engage with our shareholders were duly passed.
The resolutions to approve the 2014 15 remuneration report and directors remuneration policy, however, Annual general meeting received a significant proportion of votes against 34.15% and All shareholders are invited to attend or appoint 30.68% respectively.
The board was disappointed at this a proxy to attend on their behalf outcome and sought further feedback as a result of which a The annual general meeting provides an excellent change has been made to the recruitment policy for directors.
opportunity for our shareholders, in particular our Further details are set out on page 62. private shareholders, to hear about the general development of the business and to ask questions Overall, the board was pleased to note that the total number of of the Chairman of the board and other directors proxy votes received for all resolutions at the 2015 annual general meeting represented more than 83% of the total voting rights of Financial reporting and regulatory news the Company 2014 annual general meeting: more than 80%.
Annual Report, including the full-year financial statements Shareholder approval of the Transaction Half-year financial statements On 24 March 2016, ICAP plc held two shareholder meetings Regular trading updates to approve the Transaction a court meeting and a general meeting.
All resolutions were conducted on a poll and passed Investor and analyst briefings, meetings with at least 93% of shareholder votes in favour of all resolutions.
and presentations The total number of votes received for both meetings represented Executive directors and senior management meet more than 84% of the total voting rights of the Company.
with major shareholders throughout the year Presentations are given on financial results and key business developments which are subsequently made available on the ICAP website Website www.
com Access to reports, presentations and regulatory news Monthly volume data on electronically traded products Share price and dividend information Financial calendar Board and GEMG members biographies Registrar contact details including a dedicated helpline number for ICAP shareholders and a link to the ICAP share portal Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 45 Code principle: Effectiveness The 2014 15 evaluations of the board and its committees were EFFECTIVENESS externally facilitated by Lintstock.
Due to a significant proportion The Chairman manages the board and oversees the operation of of the boards activities having been focused on the Transaction its committees.
The composition of the board and its committees since 31 March 2015, Lintstock was asked to focus its 2015 16 is reviewed to ensure there is the right mix of skills, experience evaluations on the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
and knowledge of the Company to enable them to perform The 2015 16 board evaluation was undertaken by way of an effectively.
Throughout the year, at least half of the board, internal assessment.
excluding the Chairman, comprised non-executive directors.
Lintstock does not provide any other advisory services to ICAP.
The balance of the board as at 31 March 2016 is illustrated on page 38.
An internal review of the composition and performance of the Governance and Nomination Committees concluded that the Time commitment activities of both committees had been impacted by the In order to effectively discharge their responsibilities, nonTransaction.
The board agreed that both committees should executive directors must commit sufficient time to their role.
be externally evaluated in 2016 17 and their terms of reference The Chairman has confirmed that, in his view, each non-executive would be reviewed following completion of the Transaction.
director continued to demonstrate commitment to their role Board evaluation during the year, particularly in light of the Transaction.
Outside The boards evaluation focused on information and board of ICAP, neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors dynamics.
The evaluation confirmed that agenda items were took on further significant commitments during the year.
The appropriate and supported by good quality and relevant Chairman, who is based at ICAPs London office, continued information.
The boards skills and experience contributed to commit as much time as was necessary to fulfil his duties to a well functioning board which had both the opportunity with his responsibilities to ICAP taking priority over his other and independence to challenge executive management.
In addition to the time spent preparing for, and attending, board Audit Committee evaluation and committee meetings, the Chairman and the non-executive The 2015 16 Audit Committee evaluation confirmed that the directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to further their committee had successfully implemented the key focus areas understanding of the Group.
This typically takes the form of highlighted by the previous external review including additional meetings with executive management and key stakeholders as training on technical accounting matters and Annual Report well as training sessions to ensure ongoing business awareness.
disclosures and a continued focus on financial reporting processes.
Throughout the year, each board committee meeting was For 2016 17, the evaluation recommended that the committee attended by all of its members as detailed in the table below: focus on the accounting issues arising from the separation of Newco and IGBB and continue the training and development Governance Nomination Audit Risk Remuneration of committee members.
Executive directors Stuart Bridges 2 2 Risk Committee evaluation The Risk Committees performance in 2015 16 was rated Michael Spencer 2 2 1 1 positively, particularly the committees understanding of the Non-executive key risks facing ICAP and the committees performance in directors reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the Groups risk Charles Gregson 2 2 1 1 management framework.
The committee had successfully Ivan Ritossa 1 1 2 2 7 7 3 3 implemented a number of the focus areas identified by the Diane Schueneman 4 4 5 5 2 2 previous external review, namely an enhanced focus on risk John Sievwright 2 2 1 1 6 6 7 7 1 1 appetite methodology and metrics and increased dialogue with senior members of the risk management team.
Robert Standing 1 1 6 6 7 7 3 3 The evaluation identified a continued assessment of the S tuart Bridges was appointed a member of the Governance Committee on 30 September 2015. risks arising from the separation of Newco and IGBB and Ivan Ritossa was appointed a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees an improved understanding of the risks on which regulators on 31 December 2015.
D iane Schueneman was a member of the Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration are focusing as key focus areas for 2016 17.
Committees until 31 December 2015, when she resigned from the board.
J ohn Sievwright was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee on 31 December 2015.
Remuneration Committee evaluation The overall performance of the Remuneration Committee was Board and committee evaluations positively rated although the vote against the remuneration report The performance of the board and its committees is assessed was disappointing in view of the work and consultation undertaken.
annually to ensure their effectiveness is maintained and that The committee felt that the alignment of executive managements they remain fit for purpose.
Evaluating performance helps to interests with the strategy of the Group had been effectively identify areas that might need to be strengthened or developed.
implemented but noted that further changes would be required in view of the Transaction and in order to drive appropriate outcomes for shareholders.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 46 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Independence of the non-executive directors Non-executive directors are expected to be independent in How we inducted Stuart Bridges character and judgement and free from any business or other Stuart joined the board in September 2015.
In his previous relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise role, he was Chief Financial Officer of Hiscox Limited, of that judgement.
Stuart has been a nonThe board considers and reviews the independence of each executive director of Caledonia Investments plc since non-executive director on an annual basis.
In carrying out its January 2013. review, consideration is given to factors such as length of tenure With Stuarts listed company experience and background and each directors ability to provide objective challenge to in regulated financial services, his induction focused on the management.
The board determined that each non-executive Groups operations, culture and strategy in order to assist director was independent against the criteria stated in the Code.
Stuart met with a number of executive and senior managers and visited ICAP businesses Board induction and training in Jersey City, New York and Singapore.
In particular, he was The Chairman of the board ensures that new directors receive a briefed on: tailored and comprehensive induction programme to introduce them to the Groups businesses and a wide range of senior management.
the Groups strategic and business objectives, Following an assessment of the specific skills which a director brings with particular focus on the Transaction: to the board, the programme typically comprises a combination of ongoing culture and leadership initiatives within briefings on specialist topics and meetings with, among others, the the Group: directors, Group Company Secretary, Global Chief Operating Officer, the global markets and regulatory landscape which Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, ICAP faces: and Group General Counsel, Group Head of HR and CFO Group Finance.
ICAPs products and technology including an in-depth view of its trading and post trade systems.
This included The purpose of the programme is to ensure each new director time spent on a number of trading desks to gain a understands the unique opportunities and challenges which further understanding of the business.
ICAP faces, enabling every director to contribute fully to the boards strategic discussions and oversight of the business.
Stuart completed a number of ICAP-specific online training modules and, in order to increase his understanding of During the year all directors received a number of updates on the ICAPs shareholder profile, he met with a number of current regulatory environment, from both external advisors and ICAPs and potential investors in Boston, Frankfurt, London and senior managers, and briefings on governance changes and their New York.
He was also briefed on shareholder feedback implications for ICAP.
In particular, the board received detailed from the 2015 annual general meeting.
training on directors duties in the context of the Transaction.
The directors may obtain independent professional advice in respect of their duties to the board and its committees at the Companys expense.
Chairmans evaluation The Chairmans 2015 16 evaluation was led by John Sievwright Directors conflicts of interest as senior independent director.
The evaluation concluded that the The board has procedures in place for the disclosure of conflicts Chairman fully discharged his duties in terms of leadership during of interest.
The directors are aware of their responsibility to avoid the year.
The Chairman was noted to have an excellent grasp a situation whereby they have an actual or potential conflict of of his role, encouraging open board debate and actively seeking interest and the requirement to inform the Chairman and the the counsel of the non-executive directors.
In particular, the Group Company Secretary of any change in their situation.
An Chairmans excellent lines of communication with the Groups effective procedure is in place for the board to authorise conflict senior executive team and a highly constructive working relationship situations should they arise, in accordance with the Companies with the Group Chief Executive Officer provided a strong foundation Act 2006 and the Companys articles of association.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for keeping The Chairman is accessible outside of scheduled meetings and appropriate records, including the scope of any authorisations uses the senior independent director as a sounding board on granted by the board.
The board undertakes an annual review major issues.
Matters raised by the non-executive directors of conflict authorisations.
No additional conflicts of interest were incorporated into full and balanced board meeting agendas were required to be authorised during the year.
and the Chairman arranged for advisors and specialists to present to the board as appropriate throughout the year.
Compliance with the Code The Chairman has agreed that, following completion of the It is the boards view that, for the year ended 31 March 2016, Transaction, the composition of the board will need reviewing and he the Company has applied all the main principles and been fully has undertaken to make this a focus for the Nomination Committee.
compliant with all provisions set out in the Code.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 47 Code principle: Effectiveness Code principle: Accountability GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE In order to facilitate efficient and effective management and The Nomination Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing deliver long-term shareholder value, the role of the Governance the structure, size, composition and succession planning of the Committee is to review, offer recommendations and make board.
The committee reports to the board.
decisions in relation to all aspects of the Groups governance environment.
Members Members of the Nomination Committee are appointed by the Members board and comprise a majority of independent non-executive The Governance Committees membership is made up of the directors.
The committee is chaired by the Chairman of the board.
Chairman of the board, the senior independent director, the The table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director.
the committee during the year and their committee attendance.
The Global Chief Operating Officer and the Group General Counsel Key activities have standing invitations to attend committee meetings.
Key elements of the Nomination Committees work on succession The table on page 45 sets out the committee members planning during the year followed on from the Transaction and attendance at committee meetings during the year.
Diane Schuenemans decision to step down from the board.
As part of these discussions, the committee determined that the Key activities industry skills and experience of Ivan Ritossa would enhance the During the year, the Governance Committee discussed and composition of the Nomination and Audit Committees and that reviewed the impact of a number of regulatory developments John Sievwrights understanding of key shareholder and investor on the Groups governance framework including potential concerns as the senior independent director would further changes to the regulation of benchmarks and the Fair and strengthen the skill set of the Remuneration Committee.
Following completion of the Transaction, the committee will The committee also oversaw an ongoing programme of work undertake a detailed review of the composition, skills and to consolidate the Groups corporate structure in connection experience of board members in order to deliver an appropriately with the Transaction and continued its assessment of the Groups balanced board for Newco.
This review will include consideration progress with cultural change.
The committee was pleased to of the current non-executive directors tenure and take into conclude that, although there is more work to be done, the account the need for progressive refreshing of the board.
Groups cultural remediation programme has been successful in implementing cultural change throughout the Group.
During the year, the committee discussed and approved terms of reference for the FX Remediation Oversight Committee, a How we appoint new board members sub-committee of the board which was established to oversee The Nomination Committee ensures that a formal, the implementation of enhancements to the Groups internal rigorous and transparent procedure exists for the systems and controls.
A review of the activities undertaken by appointment of new directors.
All board appointments this committee is set out on page 53. are made on merit acknowledging the benefits a diverse range of skills, experience, background and gender can bring to the boards leadership and effectiveness.
The first stage of the process involves the committee conducting a detailed evaluation of the composition of the board.
Assisted by external search consultants, where appropriate, the members of the committee then meet with a short list of candidates.
The final recruitment decision is determined by the full board of directors.
How we measure effective governance The appointment of Stuart Bridges was described in the 2015 Annual Report and an overview of his induction is In line with its responsibility for maintaining core governance provided on page 46. standards across the Group, the Governance Committee reviewed the Groups governance framework for regulated subsidiaries during the year and evaluated the findings of an internal audit review on corporate governance.
Action items arising from both reviews will be a focus area for the committee in 2016 17.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 48 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Code principle: Accountability The governance framework to provide such assurance to AUDIT COMMITTEE the committee and to the board is set out on page 49.
The statement itself is on page 58.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank each member of the committee for their hard work and commitment to the activities and responsibilities undertaken by the committee and to management for their responsiveness to the committees questions and challenges.
John Sievwright Chairman, Audit Committee 16 May 2016 Chairmans overview Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce The Audit Committee is responsible for the effective governance of this report which sets out how the committee has discharged the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of financial its responsibilities during the year.
disclosures and both the external and internal audit functions.
It is A key item on the committees agenda has been oversight of authorised by the board to carry out any activity within its terms of a comprehensive tender process for the Groups external audit reference.
The Audit Committee reports to the board.
The committee decided to initiate this process given the The Audit Committee may seek any information it requires from timing of the current auditors lead partner rotation and in light of any employee and all employees are directed to co-operate with the Transaction and recent changes in audit tender requirements.
any request made by the committee.
The committee may obtain The tender included members of the board and representatives outside legal or other independent professional advice and secure of key business and control functions meeting with a number the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise, of potential auditor candidates in London and New York.
These if the committee considers this necessary, at the Groups expense.
meetings were a useful opportunity for candidates to meet with key stakeholders in the Group and ensured that the Company Members received a strong round of initial proposals.
Each candidate then The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive provided a written submission to the committee and an additional directors and it is chaired by John Sievwright.
The board is committee meeting was scheduled in May 2016 to receive formal satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent presentations.
Each proposal was evaluated in detail focusing on and relevant financial experience and that all members bring audit quality, team experience and cultural fit.
extensive expertise to the committee.
The table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on The tender concluded with the committees recommendation the committee during the year and their attendance.
to the board that Deloitte LLP be appointed as the Companys auditor for the year ending 31 March 2018, subject to Meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the board, shareholder approval at the 2017 annual general meeting.
the Group Finance Director, the Global Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel, the CFO Group Finance, the Group The committee is very aware of an increased spend during the Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner.
year on non-audit services provided by our external auditor PwC as described in more detail on page 50.
The significant The Chairman of the Audit Committee maintains contact increase was due to a number of assignments which were with attendees throughout the year.
There were two meetings required to support the Transaction, referred to as the corporate during 2015 16 when the committee met with the Group finance transaction services and other assurance services in Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner without note 2 to the financial statements.
The committee carefully any executive director or member of management present.
considered the impact of using PwC for this work and, while it would have been possible to use another firm this would have been Key activities inefficient and subject to even higher fees as that firm would have An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance had to replicate PwCs underlying audit work.
The committee also are considered by the Audit Committee and that business and noted that it was not unusual for this type of work to be reporting requirements are met.
The committees key activities undertaken by an existing auditor on the basis that they are during the year included reviewing and discussing: familiar with the business and, as a result, able to perform the the appointment of a Group Head of Internal Audit: services in a timely and cost-effective manner.
the appropriateness of the Groups half-year and annual The committee therefore decided that, with the appropriate financial statements and financial announcements to the independence and objective procedures in place, it would be London Stock Exchange: in the best interests of shareholders for PwC to undertake this the viability assessment and viability statement on page 58: work and a one-off exception to the Groups internal policy on the going concern statement on page 58 and the non-audit services was approved.
The board is required to provide appropriateness of preparing the Groups half-year and a statement that, taken as a whole, it believes the Annual Report annual financial statements on a going concern basis: and financial statements to be fair, balanced and understandable.
reports from the external auditor: Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 49 the effectiveness of the Groups internal control The committee also considered the impairment review of systems for financial reporting: investments in non-core associates which was undertaken by an annual schedule of work to be conducted by the management as at 31 March 2016.
There was 25 million of external and internal audit teams: and impairment charge recorded for the year.
In reviewing this area, the effectiveness of the external and internal audits.
the committee considered the appropriateness of managements judgements and estimates: see note 22 to the financial statements.
The committee members also received training updates from the external auditor on accounting developments, The committee considered managements viability statement corporate governance and reporting and the new viability and the appropriateness of managements judgements, estimates and assumptions made in assessing the viability of the Group.
The committee is satisfied that the directors of the Company Financial reporting carried out an assessment of the long-term solvency and liquidity The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies and of the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements, including viability statement is disclosed on page 58 and should be read the half-year and annual reports, and other announcements together with the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and relating to the Groups financial performance to ensure that they risk management framework as set out in the risk management present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups financial section of the strategic report on pages 16 to 21. position and outlook.
Additionally, auditing standards require the external auditor to presume risks of fraud in revenue recognition as a significant During the year, the committee considered certain accounting audit risk area and to perform procedures to address those risks.
and financial reporting areas to be of a more subjective nature.
The committee concluded that, based on the findings reported Throughout the year, management presented to the committee by the external and internal auditors, and from its own review of its position on those areas that were material in nature and the Groups internal control and risk management frameworks, involved significant management judgement and assumptions.
the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 were Such areas included managements review of goodwill not exposed to a material risk arising from this risk area.
impairment, the recoverability of investments in particular non-core investments that were associated with the Groups The committee considered and approved the Groups tax strategy, voice broking business but are not being sold, contingent the objectives of which were to deliver shareholder value by liabilities and managements viability assessment.
In reviewing complying with all tax obligations and working constructively managements judgements and estimates in these areas, where with relevant tax authorities.
appropriate, the committee discussed these judgements and estimates with the external auditor.
The work described above, together with a review of the content of the strategic report, provided the assurance to the The committee considered and approved the Groups significant committee, and to the board, that the Annual Report for the accounting policies, including managements position on provisions year ended 31 March 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and its definition of exceptional items see the basis of preparation and understandable and provides the information necessary for note to the financial statements on pages 85 to 87, which remained shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys position consistent with the prior year.
The committee discussed and and performance, business model and strategy.
approved the appropriateness of items, considering their nature and materiality, that were presented in the exceptional items The committee has delegated responsibility for the day-tocolumn in the consolidated income statement.
The committee, day financial management and monitoring of financial controls where appropriate, discussed managements judgements and to the GFC.
estimates with the external auditor and approved the provisions as at 31 March 2016.
Internal audit The internal audit function is overseen by the Group Head The announced disposal of the IGBB business satisfied the criteria of Internal Audit who is supported by KPMG as outsourced for held for sale and discontinued operations under IFRS5.
As a providers and reports to the Audit and Risk Committees.
Internal result, management presented financials attributable to the IGBB audit establishes an annual audit plan based on discussions with business and to the retained Group separately.
The committee management and an assessment of the risks inherent in the also considered and approved managements approach to include Groups activities.
The results of these audits provide assurance non-GAAP financials in the strategic report to make the financial to management and to the Audit and Risk Committees that the statements clearer and more understandable, in particular system of internal control achieves its objectives and highlights comparability with the prior years reported financials.
gaps and areas for improvement.
The committee considers the annual goodwill impairment review The effectiveness of the internal audit function has been to be a significant judgement area and, as such, reviewed the assessed on an ongoing basis by challenge to the content of impairment testing which was undertaken by management during the internal audit plan and the performance of the function March 2016.
The impairment test identified that there was no against this approved plan.
As a result of such assessment, impairment.
In reviewing this area, the committee considered changes have been made to the plan, for example to allow the appropriateness of managements judgements and estimates: for an unexpected change in circumstances and to amend see note 14 to the financial statements.
a protocol around the process to ensure management remained focused on implementing recommendations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 50 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Code principle: Accountability External auditor RISK COMMITTEE In line with the requirements of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 and as described in more detail on page 48, the board has decided to recommend that Deloitte LLP be appointed as the Companys external auditor for the year ending 31 March 2018, subject to approval by shareholders at the 2017 annual general meeting.
At the 2016 annual general meeting, the Groups current auditor, PwC, will be proposed for re-appointment for the year ending 31 March 2017.
Non-audit services In line with best practice, the Audit Committee is responsible Chairmans overview for determining the non-audit services that the external auditor I am pleased to introduce the Risk Committee report for 2015 16. may or may not provide to the Group and monitoring the balance My role as Chairman of the Risk Committee is to safeguard the of spend on audit and non-audit fees to ensure the continued independence and oversee the performance of the Groups risk independence of the Groups external auditor.
All non-audit function, including that of the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer.
services provided to the Group are in accordance with applicable legislation.
Any proposed non-audit assignments with fees in Oversight of the Groups risk function is carried out at committee excess of 100,000 are subject to the Audit Committees prior meetings, the activities of which are described more fully on page approval.
Fees below this limit are approved by the Chairman of 51, and also by the committees relationships with the Group the Audit Committee and reported to the committee.
Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Global Chief Operating Officer, the internal audit function and senior The total spend on non-audit services during the year was management of the divisions.
Many of these individuals attend 3.6 million being 90% of the audit fee 2014 15: 21%.
committee meetings on a regular or ad hoc basis.
In addition, This was primarily due to corporate finance and other assurance I and the other committee members spend time outside meetings services required in connection with the Transaction.
As described with senior managers to ensure we are fully apprised of the issues in more details on page 48, the committee debated the benefits faced by the businesses.
of engaging an alternative firm to provide these services but determined that to do so would be inefficient and result in During the year, the directors carried out regular and robust further additional fees.
assessments of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, With these procedures in place, and following consideration solvency or liquidity.
ICAPs six principal risks are strategic, of the work to be undertaken, the committee recommended operational, liquidity, reputation, credit, and legal and regulatory.
to the board a one-off exception to the Groups internal policy The Group also recognises and manages three further significant on non-audit services to be provided by the external auditor.
risks: cross-risk, market and financial.
These remain unchanged Note 2 to the financial statements provides further details of from the prior year.
Further detail of these risks and how they are the fees paid for audit and non-audit services during the year.
being managed and mitigated is set out in the risk management section of the strategic report on pages 16 to 21.
Effectiveness The Groups risk appetite framework provides a clear and During the year, the committee assessed the effectiveness of measurable statement of the Groups risk appetite in line with the external audit process on an ongoing basis.
The committee which the committee can exercise its oversight and governance agreed that the external audit team continued to be effective responsibilities.
The committee receives quarterly Group risk throughout the Group.
Any issues which were brought to the appetite statement reports which are discussed and reviewed in committees attention were satisfactorily dealt with at the time.
These discussions can lead to further information requests and, if appropriate, follow-up reports.
The committee believes Statutory Audit Services compliance that this framework is becoming increasingly embedded into the The Company confirms its compliance with the requirements businesses and used to inform key business decisions.
of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 51 Technology risks, including cyber, continue to be a focus for Risk Committee the committee which receives regular updates of the work being The Risk Committee reports to the board and is responsible undertaken to identify potential issues and remediation actions.
for setting the overall risk strategy, risk appetite and risk tolerance As part of the committees training programme, an extended for the Group in order to ensure that the risk management session on cyber risk, the changing environment and its impact function within the Group promotes the success of the Company.
on ICAP was provided by an expert third party during the year.
The committee is authorised by the board to carry out any activity within its terms of reference.
Its principal areas of In February 2016, the committee discussed the effectiveness responsibility include: of the risk function following its reorganisation in April 2015, under Wendy Phillis, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer.
The ensuring that the Groups principal risks including emerging findings confirmed the improvements which the committee threats are properly identified, assessed and mitigated on an had witnessed, particularly increased engagement between ongoing basis: senior management and the risk function and the provision of regularly reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the higher-quality data and information in respect of risk appetite Groups risk management and internal control frameworks: and reporting.
There was recognition by the risk function, endorsed reviewing the internal audit programme as part of by the committee, that continuing improvement of the function integrated assurance.
would be critical to ensure effective oversight of risk management and controls.
Members The Risk Committee members are all independent non-executive I would like to take this opportunity to thank each member of the directors and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright.
The committee for their continued commitment to, and enthusiastic table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on the Risk participation in, the work of the committee and to management for Committee during the year and their committee attendance.
their responsiveness to the committees questions and challenges.
The Chairman of the board, the Group Finance Director, the Global Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel, the John Sievwright Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Head of HR, the Chairman, Risk Committee Group Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner 16 May 2016 regularly attend meetings of the committee.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee maintains contact with attendees throughout the year and has met with the Group Head of Internal Audit, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Global Chief Operating Officer without other members of the executive being present.
Key activities An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance are considered by the committee and that business and reporting requirements are met.
The committees key activities during the year included reviewing and discussing: regular and robust assessments of the principal risks facing the Group: the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control frameworks on an annual basis: updates on operational risk and compliance issues: approval of the Groups 2015 ICAAP and an improved stress testing strategy for 2016: approval of a new policy for significant business initiatives within the Group: review of the Groups risk appetite framework to align more closely with the Groups business strategy and divisions: business risk reviews Shipping, Traiana, Fusion and BrokerTec : review of internal audit, legal, regulatory and government affairs reports: updates on the Groups information risk profile including cyber and technological threats facing the Group and the results of global penetration testing: and monitoring levels of mandatory risk and compliance training in risk and compliance matters, identifying and escalating non-adherence.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 52 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Risk control and management framework Effectiveness review Our internal controls and risk oversight have been reviewed as a result of FRC guidance and changes made to ensure compliance.
The board reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control frameworks on an annual basis.
This review is supported by the Groups independent control functions and any remediating actions which are identified are reported to the board.
No significant failings or weaknesses in the Groups systems of risk management or internal control were identified during the year.
Three lines of defence model First line of defence Customer facing business units, support and Group functions Business units function process and risk owners Owns, identifies, manages, and mitigates, within a defined risk appetite, the risks and losses within the business units Second line of defence Independent control functions Compliance Risk management Provides interpretation of regulations and upstream Designs and deploys the overall risk management risk and disseminates to business units framework across the organisation Develops and monitors policies and procedures Monitors business unit adherence to framework and strategy Monitors and provides challenge on compliance with regulations Monitors and provides challenge on risk across business units functions and escalates risk and Undertakes risk assessment-based compliance testing control issues to senior management Advises on regulatory issues and provides training Performs aggregated risk reporting Advises on risk issues and provides training Third line of defence Internal audit independent assurance Provides independent testing and verification of efficacy of corporate standards and business line compliance Validates the overall risk framework Provides assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed and identifies improvement opportunities Provides independent assurance over the key risks faced by the Group To support the Risk Committee in the day-to-day risk management office, support functions and Group functions, have full of the Group certain responsibilities have been delegated to the accountability for the management of the risks in their GOC.
The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the GOC specific businesses.
This is done within the limits and the have terms of reference that require all aspects of the Groups control environment established by the Group.
risk management activities to be regularly reviewed.
The Chief All employees and managers are required to take a prudent Risk and Compliance Officer is a member of the GOC.
In addition approach to risk taking and to review regularly the effectiveness to the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the GOC, internal of their control environment and compliance with the Groups and external risk events are also monitored and reviewed at a risk appetite.
The Groups risk management processes are divisional level with divisional committees facilitating discussion dynamic, reflecting changes in the Groups strategies and the and challenge between front office management and the Group external risk drivers in the global market in which it operates.
The Groups internal control and risk management systems The Risk Committee monitors the Groups risk management and in relation to financial reporting are described on page 49. internal control systems.
The significant risks of the Group are continually assessed and managed by operating a three lines of defence model for the risk and control of the businesses.
The three lines of defence model is an industry standard concept.
A key aspect of the three lines of defence model is that senior management, in particular those with responsibility for front Organisational strategic risk objectives Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 53 Risk management and compliance The Groups compliance department undertakes an annual risk Representing the second line of defence, the Groups risk assessment in each region as the basis for the annual compliance management function operates independently to the first plan for those legal entities, desks, offices and business and line under the mandate set by the board.
The Chief Risk operating units which will be the subject of compliance review and Compliance Officer reports to the Risk Committee and, and examination.
ICAPs compliance risk management framework functionally, to the Global Chief Operating Officer.
The risk is risk based, which means that ICAP assesses and ranks its function is organised to recognise the individual risk profiles, compliance risks and prioritises its compliance resources on oversight and challenge needs of the divisions, as well as the a Group, regional and business unit basis.
need for consistent identification, assessment and monitoring of risk across the Group in support of the boards requirements.
Internal control The Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is a member of the GOC.
The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, which management is Day-to-day management of risk and its mitigation is the responsible for maintaining, and it does this through the Audit and responsibility of business heads.
Risk management provides Risk Committees.
A description of the key risks faced by each an independent assessment of the Groups risks and supports division are detailed on page 21.
The day-to-day business of the the business heads in identifying, monitoring, mitigating and Group is managed through a system of financial, operational and reporting risks through the use of a range of tools.
In this way, compliance controls and monitored by a series of risk management risk management reviews and challenges the Groups activities systems.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than both functionally and globally.
eliminate risks and can provide only reasonable and not absolute These tools include: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the internal independent monitoring and analysis of the Groups current audit function.
and projected liquidity exposures: credit risk limits based on an internal scoring system with The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and near real-time monitoring of credit exposure globally: associates.
Internal control procedures for joint ventures and management information, including key and emerging risks, associates rests with the senior management of those operations and risk appetite indicators at Group and divisional levels: and the Company seeks to monitor such investments and exert global risk management framework policies and procedures influence through board representation.
The boards review including the Groups risk appetite framework: of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in those operational risk framework, policies and standards: entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directlyperiodic risk and control self-assessments of key processes owned subsidiaries.
and controls across the Groups business and support functions: and FX Remediation Oversight Committee stress testing of risk-based capital assessments of current The FX Remediation Oversight Committee was established risk exposures and plausible but unlikely scenario analysis.
in April 2015 as a result of an FCA planned cross-market remediation exercise in relation to systems and controls in Qualitative and quantitative measures are monitored by risk FX business areas following enforcement actions undertaken management to ensure that the businesses risks remain within against certain banks.
ICAP was required by the FCA to conduct acceptable risk appetite and tolerances.
Using these measures, a review and consider processes and oversight in a number the Group produces risk intelligence reports which are disseminated of areas including spot FX and FX derivatives and structured through the governance structures at all levels as appropriate.
Due to the wide ranging and broad scope of the The Groups risk department undertakes a global assessment required remediation programme, and the requirement for of the Groups risk and control framework on an annual basis the Group Chief Executive Officer to provide an attestation and provides this assurance to the Risk Committee.
of the work undertaken, the board agreed that oversight of Representing the second line of defence, the Groups compliance the programme within ICAP should be undertaken by a separate function reports to the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and committee, chaired by the Chairman and reporting to the board.
operates independently to the first line of defence under the mandate set by the board.
Dedicated compliance departments Committee members support the businesses operating in EMEA, the Americas and The committee consisted of the Chairman of the board, Asia Pacific regions, each under the leadership of regional heads a non-executive director, the Group General Counsel and of compliance who are members of regional and business level the Global Chief Operating Officer.
The Groups compliance department implements and manages Activities during the year ICAPs compliance risk management framework.
This framework Due to the scope of the review, the remediation programme is designed to provide assurance that ICAPs business is conducted was a significant undertaking and a number of recommendations in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and regulatory were made.
The committee met ten times during the year to standards.
As such, the compliance risk management framework review progress and implementation of the key recommendations.
incorporates the requirements of applicable law and published The output of the programme supported the internal certifications international best practice standards, including business advisory and attestation provided to the FCA.
As a result, the committee, support, compliance risk assessment and mitigation, compliance having fulfilled its terms of reference, has been disbanded.
monitoring and surveillance, anti-money laundering compliance and the reporting and escalation of potential and crystallised risks.
