THE BOARD The Board is responsible for promoting and ensuring the long-term success of the Groupthrough the creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Andy Green Peter Hetherington Malcolm Le May Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent NonExecutiveDirector Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 9 June 2014 Deputy Chairman 25 February 2003 Chief Operating Officer 10 September 2015 16 October 2014 Chairman 4 December 2015 Chief Executive Officer Andy has in-depth board experience and Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy prior to Malcolm served as Senior Independent Director knowledge of major listed companies, having joining IG Group as a graduate trainee in 1994. of Pendragon plc and was a Non-Executive served as Group Chief Executive of Logica In 1999, he became Head of Financial Dealing, Director and Chairman of the Investment plc and having held board roles in BT Group and in 2003, he joined the Board following Committee at RSA Insurance Group plc.
Prior including the role of CEO of Group Strategy his appointment as Chief Operating Officer.
to this, he held various executive roles at and Operations.
He was also a board member Within that role, Peter was responsible for IT Morgan Grenfell plc, Drexel Burnham Lambert, of the CBI.
Andys other current roles enable as the company principally became an online Barclays fide Zoete Wedd Holdings, UBS AG, him to bring to the Board a wide perspective on business.
His role developed to encompass the ING Barings Ltd, Morley Fund Managers now technology and digital development.
leadership of the sales and marketing functions.
Aviva Investors, JER Partners Ltd where he He was appointed Interim Chief Executive was European President and Matrix Securities Other current appointments: Officer in October 2015 and Chief Executive Limited.
Malcolms broad experience and Andy is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Officer inDecember 2015.
Peter graduated knowledge of the financial services and Director of ARM Holdings plc and Avanti from Nottingham University with a degree in investment sectors, along with his extensive Communications Group plc.
He holds a number economics, and from the London Business School experience on the boards of publicly listed of other roles, including chairing DockOn AG with a masters in finance.
Petersconsiderable companies, is of immense value as the Company and Digital Catapult.
He is a trustee of AbesuLtd experience, built over 20 years in the business, is continues to deliveron its strategic initiatives.
and Tech Partnership Limited, President of invaluable in his role as Chief Executive Officer.
Other current appointments: UK Space andco-chairman of the Space Other current appointments: Leadership Council.
Malcolm is the Senior Independent None Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Committee membership: Remuneration Committee at Provident Financial Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chair plc and a Non-Executive Director and Chairman None Remuneration Committee of the Remuneration Committee of Hastings Group Holdings plc.
He is a partner at Opus Corporate Finance LLP and holds advisory roles at Juno Capital LLP and Heidrick & Struggles.
Committee membership: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Nomination Committee 58 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT June Felix Stephen Hill Jim Newman Sam Tymms NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 4 September 2015 28 April 2011 1 October 2013 22 May 2013 June has held various executive Stephen brings significant and A qualified Chartered Accountant, Sam began her career at the management positions at a extensive board experience having Jim was Finance Director for London Stock Exchanges number of large multi-national previously served as the CEO of Resolution plc, having joined Surveillance Division, which over businesses, including Citibank Betfair plc and holding managerial the company as Group Financial time became the Securities and where she was managing director roles at Pearson plc, including Controller.
Jim spent ten years Futures Authority and eventually of global healthcare, Citi Enterprise the role of CEO of the Financial at Aviva, where he was Group the Financial Services Authority.
Payments and IBM Corporation, Times Group.
He was Chairman Integration Director for the CGU During that timeshe held a range where she led their global Banking of Interactive Data Corporation Norwich Union merger and of supervisory roles and worked and Financial Markets business.
in the US as well as a member of Finance Director of Norwich Union for two years in the Investigations She began her career at P&G in the boards for Royal Sun Alliance Life, Avivas UK life insurance and Enforcement Division.
Insurance Group plc, Psion business.
He was formerly the supervisor, she ran departments June brings to the Boardsignificant plc, Channel 4 and Ofcom.
Corporate Development Director overseeing global investment international experience and for Friends Life Group, where his firms, retail and investment banks Other current appointments: knowledge of the digital sector responsibilities included overseeing and major insurance groups.
Stephen is Trustee and Chairman as well as experience in product the final separation and integration Sams extensive experience in the of the Royal National Institute for innovation and delivery.
of the UK life business acquired regulatory field and her knowledge Deaf People Action on Hearing by Resolution plc, as well as the of compliance matters provide the Other current appointments: Loss.
He is also a member of the delivery of the overall group change Board with considerable insight into June is the president of Verifone, Advisory Board of the Cambridge portfolio and strategic corporate regulatory expectations.
Europe and Russia, with Judge Business School and development.
His in-depth Other current appointments: responsibility for the operation of a Non-Executive Director of knowledge and experience of the the Verifone business throughout Applerigg Limited and Aztec Sam is a Managing Director at financial services sector, as well as Europe and Russia.
Limited, a fund administration Promontory Financial Group, a his considerable experience both as business.
He was appointed leading strategy, riskmanagement Committee membership: a CFO and in the implementation Chairman of the Alzheimers Society and regulatorycompliance Nomination Committee of transformation programmes, is effective 6September 2016. consulting firm, where she advises proving of considerable benefitto Board Risk Committee financial services businesses Committee membership: the Board.
on a wide range of risk and Board Risk Committee Chair Other current appointments: regulatory matters.
Remuneration Committee None Committee membership: Nomination Committee Committee membership: Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Chair Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Biographical details of Directors appointed following the date of this Annual Report can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
59 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 THE BOARD CONTINUED Specific matters have been delegated to Board Committees LEADERSHIP and each Committee has its own terms of reference, which are ROLE OF THE BOARD available on the Groups website.
The Board is collectively responsible for providing effective The matters that have not been specifically reserved for the leadership to the Company by promoting and ensuring BoardCommittees are delegated to the Executive Directors.
long-term success of the Group through the creation and delivery These include the development, recommendation and of sustainable shareholder value.
It provides guidance and implementation of the strategic plans for the Group: the entrepreneurial leadership by setting the strategic direction of development and implementation of the risk management the Group and overseeing managements implementation of the systems, policies and procedure: the promotion of a good strategy within a framework of prudent and effective risk controls.
standard of corporate governance and shareholder engagement and monitoring the Groups operating and financial results.
The Board seeks to ensure that, while the ultimate focus is on long-term growth, management also delivers on short-term BOARD STRUCTURE objectives and achieves the right balance between immediate and The Board is made up of the Chairman, Executive Directors, future goals.
including the Chief Executive Officer, and independent Non-Executive Directors.
There is a division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
When setting the Groups Chairman strategy and monitoring its The Chairman, Andy Green, provides strong and effective implementation, the Board leadership to the Board and ensures the Board is structured effectively.
He sets the Boards agenda, in consultation with considers the impact its the Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary, taking full account of Board members issues and concerns and the need to decisions may have on various allow sufficient time for items on the agenda to be discussed.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to encourage and facilitate active stakeholders, such as suppliers, engagement by Directors, drawing on their skills, knowledge and experience.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring there is investors, employees and the effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders, and that Directors are aware and maintain an understanding of environment as a whole.
The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive accountable for ensuring that, Officer, Peter Hetherington, to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
as a collective body, it has the Chief Executive Officer appropriate skills, knowledge The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board, implementing the agreed strategy and experience to perform its and managing the day-to-day business of the Group.
He leads, manages and develops the Groups senior leadership team and role effectively.
ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
The Board has delegated this responsibility to him, and he is accountable to the Board.
The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters that are reserved to, and can only be approved by the Board.
Executive Directors These include setting Group strategy: approval of major The Executive Directors support the Chief Executive Officer acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: approval in implementing the Groups strategy and in the operational of annual budgets: approval of changes to the Groups capital performance of the business.
structure including reduction of capital: approval of expansion Non-Executive Director plans into new business or geographies: reviewing operational and financial performance: appointment and termination of the The Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and Directors and Company Secretary: approval of policies related are considered by the Board to be free from any business or other to Directors remuneration and severance of Directors contracts: relationshipswhich could compromise their independence.
Their ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior role is to advise and constructively challenge management, along management: setting the risk appetite of the Group and approval with monitoring managements success in delivering the agreed of any changes to the Groups risk management policy that strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by materially increases the Groups risk profile.
They are also responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision can be found on the Groups website.
60 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Senior Independent Director ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS Malcolm Le May is Senior Independent Non-Executive Director The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director and in this rolehe provides a sounding board for the Chairman during the year, including the Board strategy day, is set out below: and supports him in the delivery of his objectives.
He serves as a BOARD MEETINGS MEETINGS trusted intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
He ELIGIBLE TO ATTENDED maintains an understanding of the major issues and concerns of ATTEND major shareholders and informs the Board of these issues.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is also available to CHAIRMAN shareholders if they have concerns which communication via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Andy Green 7 7 Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or when shareholders INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS prefer to speak directly to him.
He is responsible for evaluating the 1 performance of the Chairman on behalf of the other Directors.
Stephen Hill 7 6 2 Company Secretary Roger Yates 2 1 The Company Secretary, Tony Lee, supports and works closely Sam Tymms 7 7 with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board Jim Newman 7 7 Committee Chairmen in setting agenda items for meetings of the Board and its Committees.
He ensures that accurate, timely 3 June Felix 6 6 and high-quality information flows within the Board, the Board 4 Committees and between Directors and senior management.
In Malcolm Le May 6 6 addition, he supports the Chairman in the designing and delivery EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS of Director induction programmes.
The Company Secretary also advises the Board on corporate governance issues and 5 Tim Howkins 2 2 Board procedures.
6 Christopher Hill 2 2 HOW THE BOARD OPERATES Peter Hetherington 7 7 The Board meets regularly at least five times a year and attends an additional off-site strategy day to review strategic options 1 Stephen Hill did not attend one meeting due to illness.
open to the Group in the context of the economic and regulatory 2 Roger Yates retired from the Board on 15 October 2015.
3 June Felix was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 4 September 2015. environment.
There were seven scheduled Board meetings this 4 Malcolm Le May was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 10 September 2015. year, including the annual strategy day.
5 Tim Howkins retired as the Chief Executive Officer on 15 October 2015.
6 Christopher Hill resigned as the Chief Financial Officer on 30 October 2015.
The Board also meets when necessary to discuss important ad-hoc emerging issues that require consideration between scheduled BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Board meetings.
Each Director committed an appropriate The Board meeting agendas during the year included business amount of time to their duties during the financial year, and the across the key areas of strategy, governance, risk and financial Non-Executive Directors met the time commitment specified in performance, as highlighted in the following chart.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they are encouraged to give the Chairman their views BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME on the matters to be discussed.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in the absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year.
There QUARTERLY FORECAST AND were threesuch meetings during the year.
BUDGET STRATEGY BUSINESS, OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS AND CURRENT TRADING RISK AND GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OTHER 61 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 THE BOARD CONTINUED STRATEGY Reviewed and discussed the Groups long-term strategy Discussed the strategic purpose of limited-risk accounts Analysed the health of the IG brand The Board engaged an external company Oliver Wyman to perform an analysis of the Groups strategy in order to support the Boards strategic decision-making process Evaluated the Companys geographic strategy and options for proceeding with IG Investments and the portfolio-based investmentsoffering QUARTERLY FORECAST AND The Board received updates as to how the business was tracking against BUDGET budget.
The Boardwasalso alerted to material changes in budget assumptions Discussed the risks and opportunities for the FY16 Budget Reviewed and approved the budget for the next financial year BUSINESS, OPERATIONAL Regularly received updates on business progress and the issues and challenges HIGHLIGHTS AND faced by management CURRENTTRADING RISK AND GOVERNANCE Discussed IGs risk management and internal control systems in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Regularly received reports on key compliance issues identified during the year and any regulatory changes affecting IG Reviewed and approved the Individual Capacity Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, theIndividual Liquidity Adequuacy Assessment ILAA and the Groups Recovery Plan prepared in line with the EU Business Recovery and Resolution Directive Received regular updates on developments in corporate governance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Reviewed the financial performance of the Group and approved all financial results announcements, the Annual Report with the respective financial statementsand dividends Reviewed a three-year forecast based on the existing core business OTHER Undertook an external evaluation of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of each Board Committee and individual Directors Approved the appointments of new Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief FinancialOfficer BOARD COMMITTEES Certain governance responsibilities have been delegated by the Board to Board Committees to ensure that there is independent oversight of internal control and risk management and to assist the Board with carrying out its responsibilities.
These Board Committees comprise independent Non-Executive Directors and, in some cases, the Chairman.
Each Committee has agreed terms of reference approved by the Board, which are available on our corporate website, iggroup.
com A brief description of the roles of each Committee is set out below.
AUDIT BOARD RISK REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Responsible for the integrity of Responsible for providing Responsible for making Responsible for reviewing the the Financial Statements of the oversight and advice to the recommendations to the Board composition of the Board and Group, including its Annual and Board in relation to current on the Groups senior executive Board Committees to ensure Interim Reports and future risk exposures of remuneration policy that they are appropriately the Group and promoting a balanced in terms of knowledge, Reviews and recommends to Reviews and recommends to the risk awareness culture within skills and experience the Board the effectiveness Board the Groups remuneration the Group of the Groups Internal Audit policy which is consistent with Reviews and recommends to function and risk management Recommends to the Board the effective risk management, the the Board appointments to system, annual internal design and implementation of framework for the remuneration the Board and to other senior audit plan, appointment, risk management policy and of the Companys Chairman management positions re-appointment and removal of measurement strategies across and Executive Directors the external auditors the Group, the Groups risk and all share-based awards profile, risk appetite and key risk under the Groups Employee indicators for the current and Incentive Schemes future strategy 62 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on CONFLICTS OF INTEREST the matters discussed at Committee meetings.
The minutes of Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they each Committee meeting are made available to all Directors with may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless the exception of Nomination Committee minutes which werenot that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
Directors are required made available to Executive Directors during the CEO search.
to disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual Reports from the Chairman of each Board Committee, including conflicts with the interests of the Company.
information on the Committees composition and activities in the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys year, can be found in the sections relating to each Committee articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential within this Annual Report.
conflicts that may arise, and to impose such conditions or limitations as it sees fit.
During the year, potential conflicts EFFECTIVENESS were considered and assessed by the Board and approved BOARD COMPOSITION where appropriate.
The Boards size and the skills and experience of its members, SUCCESSION PLANNING AND APPOINTMENTS TO have a significant impact on its effectiveness.
It aims to maintain THE BOARD a balance in terms of experience and skills of individual Board The Board uses succession planning to ensure that Executives members.
These factors are regularly reviewed to ensure that the with the necessary skills, knowledge and expertise are in place to Board has the right mix of skills and experience for constructive deliver our strategy, and that it has the right balance of individuals discussion and, ultimately, effective Board decisions.
The breadth to be able to discharge its responsibilities.
The Board regularly of skills and experience on the Board is set out below: reviews its composition to keep it constantly refreshed.
Any Financial Services searches for Board candidates, and appointments made, are Finance and Accountancy based on merit against objective criteria.
Government and Regulatory The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors and it Marketing recommends new appointments to the Board.
It regularly reviews PR the structure, size and composition required of the Board and Technology Digital makes recommendation to the Board as appropriate.
More Chief Executive experience information on the work of the Committee can be found in the report of the Nomination Committee on pages 68 to 69.
The There is an appropriate combination of Executive Directors and Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing the development Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of of management resources across the Group.
individuals can dominate the Boards decision-making.
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Company is, and following the appointment of the Chief Financial Officer, will continue to befully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires that at least 0-3 YEARS 3 half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise 3-6 YEARS 3 Non-Executive Directors who are determined by the Board to be independent.
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis, as part of the Board effectiveness review.
The Board considers factors such as length of tenure and relationships or circumstanceswhich are likely to affect or appear to affect the Directors judgement in determining whether they remain independent.
Following this years review, the Board concluded that all of the Non-Executive Directors continue to remain independent in character and judgement and are free from any business or other relationshipswhich could materially affect the exercise of their judgement.
63 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 THE BOARD CONTINUED INDUCTION On appointment, each new Director receives a full and formal bespoke induction to familiarise them with their duties and the Companys business operations, risk and governance arrangements.
The induction programme, which is coordinated by the Company Secretary, includes briefings on regulatory matters relating to the Company, as well as meetings with senior management in key areas of the business, such as compliance, legal, IT, human resources, finance, risk, marketing and investor relations.
These are supplemented by induction materials such as recent Board papers and minutes, organisation structure charts, history of the Group, industry and regulatory reports and relevant company policies.
Newly appointed Directors also meet the companys external auditors and attend a presentation led by Linklaters on the roles and responsibilities of a UK-listed company director.
Inductions are tailored to each Directors individual experience, background and areas of focus.
Non-Executive Directors Induction Both Malcolm Le May and June Felixs induction programme were comprehensive and coveredamongother things, the following: Briefing on Group history and management structure COMPANY STRUCTURE, HISTORY, STRATEGY AND BUSINESS Group strategy including opportunities and threats Strategy and Business Model including peer comparison and what could break the business Material business lines and markets, including international markets Growth trajectory, strengths, challenges and future plans Board and Board Committee Terms of Reference GOVERNANCE AND REGULATORY Board and Committee procedures Share dealing and market abuse responsibilities Listing obligation for directors Regulatory framework and proposals impacting the business Key responsibilities for regulated activities and financial crime issues and challenges Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Remuneration Risks and other key RISK MANAGEMENT, CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY risks and priorities Risk appetite and assessment of its effectiveness Key current aspects of the liquidity regime and regulatory expectations Stress testing including reverse stress testing for capital and liquidity IGs various products andmarkets in which clients can trade PRODUCTS, FINANCE, MARKETING AND SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Business plan, standalone and consolidated balance sheets, budgeting process and financial projections Overview of marketing plans and marketing budgets Overview of the share register and key institutional shareholders Current and future strategic projects IT, HR AND REMUNERATION Key strategies to mitigate personnel risk and reduce staff turnover Remuneration strategy 64 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging ONGOING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT with the Chairman and the Company Secretaryto set the Given the rapidly changing environment in which the Group context for the evaluation, and to tailor the surveys used operates, all Directors are given regular updates on changes to the specific circumstances of IG Group whileensuring and developments in the business.
The Company Secretary on consistency of questioning to facilitate ongoing analysis of a regular basis updates the Board on any relevant legislative, performance improvement.
The Board considered the focus of the review and, in addition to Training opportunities are provided through internal meetings, those areas identified in 2015, agreed to focus on how the Board presentations and briefings by internal advisers, business heads as Committees work with each other and the Board with a particular well as external advisers.
During the year, the Directors attended focus on the management of risk.
briefing sessions on strategic foundations, the GroupsInvestments All Board members and the Company Secretary completed a Business Plan, cyber security, the EU Market Abuse Regulationand web-based survey addressing the performance of the Board a briefing to further increase the Directors understanding of the and its Committees, the Chairman and individual Director Groups business model.
The review addressed the following core areas of The Directors also attended workshopson the Groups stress Board performance: testing exercises i. e. testing whether the Groups financial position The composition of the Board was assessed with the need to and risk profile provide sufficient resilience to withstand the impact finalise the recruitment of theCFO highlighted of severe economic stress to gain a better insight into the risks and stress scenarios facing the Company.
The Board enjoyed a programme of continuing education through presentations and workshops held outsideformal The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update and Board meetings.
This programme would be enhanced during refresh their skills and knowledge, and independent professional the 2017 financial year advice is provided when required, at the Companys expense.
There had been improvements to Board agenda planning, time INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD management at meetings, the quality of the papers provided The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to and the interaction between Board Committees and the Board enable it to perform its duties effectively.
The Company Secretary The evaluation of the approach to consideration of strategy ensures appropriate and timely information flows within and to and strategic priorities received detailed attention and the Board and its Committees, enabling the Board to exercise its comment.
The Directors views as to the top strategic issues judgement and make fully informed decisions when discharging its facing the Company were identified duties.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The level of the Boards focus on risk was seen as appropriate Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring and oversight of various specific aspects of risk received that Board procedures are followed and compliance with applicable positiveratings rules and regulations is observed.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in setting the Board agenda, and Board papers are Lintstock subsequently produced a report of its findings that were distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings via a discussed with the Chairman and provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also responsible the results indicate that the Board is operating effectively with a for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate number of areas reviewed andrated positively.
Directors receive financial and risk information During 2016, management and the Board undertook a thorough on the company on a regular basis, and they receive briefings from programme to improve the quality of Board papers and the Chief Executive Officer in the periods between meetings.
management information used at Board meetings.
Significant progress was made on improving the consistency of papers RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS provided.
In 2017, wewill refine and bed in these improvements The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all directors to support continued improvement in the quality of debate and of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by decision making.
Each Director and the Board as a whole underwent a With Peter Hetherington now established in his CEO role, wewill performance evaluation during the course of the year.
All Directors be focusing on succession planning at executive level and will stand for election or re-election at the AGM.
throughout the business, including the induction of thenew CFO.
BOARD EVALUATION Importantly, wecontinued to improveour strategy process in 2016 Each year, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board is and will build on that during the coming year.
In 2016, an externalevaluation was carried out by changing the timetable of our strategy discussions to better Lintstock Limited as part of a three-year programme which began drive our business planning and risk management processes in 2015. whilecontinuing toensure that senior management provides active participation into Board discussions on strategy.
Lintstock has no other connection with the Company.
Following recent changes to the composition of the Board, and upon the recommendation of Lintstock, it was agreed that the 2016 evaluation would again be survey based.
In addition, Directors were invited to seek meetings with Lintstock on any matter of specific concern.
No such matters were raised or meetings sought.
As part of the review, consideration was given to areas identified following the 2015 review, where in-depth questions were provided on the succession planning process, time allocated to strategy and where it fits into the annual cycle and improvements in information provided to the Board.
65 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 THE BOARD CONTINUED Additionalpriorities for the Board in the coming year include: management and internal controls systems and principal risks faced by the Group via a three-line defence structure.
Further developing and embedding the Groups people strategy A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group has been carried out, including those that would threaten its business Continuing to manage and enhance our understanding and model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
We outline management of cyber threats the risks to which the Group is exposed and our framework under Ensuring that the Groups risk timetable and various risk which risk is managed, including a description of its system of processes are driven holistically and reviewed in an efficient internal controls, in the Managing Our Risks section on pages 44 and timely manner to 54.
We will report on actions taken and progress made in next years An annual formal review of the effectiveness of the Groups Annual Report.
system of risk management and internal controls has been Led by Malcolm Le May, the Senior Independent Director, a review carried out by the Board to support the statements included of the Chairmans performance was carried out by the Board using in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The review focused upon a questionnaire completed by the Executive Directors and the the overall risk governance framework, the setting of IGs risk Non-Executive Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was appetite, the key risk assessment and monitoring activities across discussed without the Chairman present.
the firm, the processes and controls in place to manage risks and for escalating exceptions highlighted by risk management The evaluation of the performance and contribution of each processes.
No weaknesses or control failures significant to the Director was conducted with reference toa self-performance Group were identified.
review questionnaire completed by each Director.
There are risk management and internal controls systemsin place The reviews concluded that each Director continues to perform for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks facing effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
the Group in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, TIME COMMITMENT Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting Following the Board evaluation process detailed above, the Board published by the Financial Reporting Council.
is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to allocate sufficient Throughout the year and up to the date of this Report, the time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Group has operated a system of internal controls that provides Externally, there has been no increase in the other significant reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all controls, commitments of the Chairman of the Company during the year including financial and operational controls and compliance with which would impact the time he has to fulfil the role.
INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER ACCOUNTABILITY FINANCIALREPORTING FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING The Groups financial reporting process has been designed to The Strategic Report on pages 7 to 29 describes the business provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the model and strategy whereby the Company generates and financial reporting and preparation of financial statements, preserves value over the long-term and delivers the objectives of including consolidated financial statements, for external purposes the Company.
The annual review of the effectiveness of A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the the Groups system of internal controls included reviews of systems Financial Statements is set out on page 101 and a statement and controls relating to the financial reporting process.
regarding the use of the going-concern basis in preparing these Internal controls over financial reporting include procedures and Financial Statements is provided in the Directors report on policies that: page 100.
Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposals of the Groups assets The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in providing products and services to its clients.
The Board is responsible for Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded establishing the overall appetite for these risks, which is detailed as necessary to permit the preparation of Financial Statements and approved in the Risk Appetite Statement.
The Board has and that receipts and expenditures are being made only responsibility for ensuring the maintenance of the Groupsrisk in accordance with authorisations of management and management and internal control systems and for annually respective Directors reviewing them.
Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely The framework under which risk is managed in the business is detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposal of supported by a system of internal controls designed to embed Group assets that could have a material effect on the Groups the management of business risk throughout the Group.
The Financial Statements risk management and internal controls systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business REMUNERATION objectives and can only providereasonable and not absolute The responsibility for the determination of remuneration assurance against material misstatement or loss.
arrangements for the Chairman, and Executive Directors has been Through reports from the Board Risk Committee and the Audit delegated to the Remuneration Committee.
Information on the Committee, consideration of the ICAAP, ILAA and Recovery Remuneration Committee and the Directors Remuneration Report Plan, the Board regularly reviews and monitors the Groups risk can be found on pages 70 to 89.
66 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communication with the Companys shareholders, and we have a comprehensive programme to facilitate this each year.
Our Annual Report is an important medium for communicating with shareholderssetting out detailed reviews of the business and its future developments in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Strategic Report.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional investors and shareholders, presentations by management and Investor Roadshows around the time of the Groups year-end and half-year results announcements.
These are coordinated by our Investor Relations team.
We make these presentations available in real-time on the Groups website, which also provides a wide range of other information to shareholders and prospective shareholders.
We also respond to ad-hoc requests from shareholders on a very regular basis.
Meetings with the Companys largest institutional shareholders and market analysts are held to discuss governance, business strategy and financial performance by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet and hear the views of the institutional shareholders when required.
Following all investor presentations and meetings, feedback is passed to the Board on any opinions or concerns expressed by shareholders.
The Directors receive regular updates on shareholder views, roadshow feedback as well as analysts reports on market perception of the Groups performance and strategy, and are made aware of the financial expectations of the Group from the outside market.
The Board also receives an Investor Perception study to identify shareholders concerns and actions undertaken for its resolution.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to meet shareholders on request and ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through other communication mechanisms.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director provide feedback to the Board on any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
AGM The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors and we welcome and encourage their participation at the meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Board Committees, are available at the AGM to answer questions.
The 2015 AGM was a successful event attended by all the Directors.
Roger Yates and Tim Howkins did not seek re-election and stepped down from the Board of the Company.
All the proposed resolutions were passed with the percentage of votes in favour of each resolution ranging from 93.09% to 99.91%.
The 2016 AGM will be held on 21 September 2016.
The Notice of the Meeting sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice is available on the Companys website iggroup.
We send the Annual Report and notice of the AGM to shareholders, or make them available on the Groups website, at least 20 working days before the date of the meeting.
The Notice of AGM sets out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions and, if they are unable to attend, can submit written queries in advance of the meeting.
At the meeting, we will make available to shareholders full details of the proxy votes received on each resolution, and we will publish these on the Companys website on the same day.
67 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
