AUDIT COMMITTEE Jim Newman, Chairman of the Audit Committee, gives his review of the Committees activities during the financial year.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW The Audit Committees principal role and responsibility is to ensure the Group operates in a strong control environment and to build a greater sense of personal accountability throughout the organisation.
During the year, the Committee has continued to focus on the monitoring of the integrity of financial reporting, primarily focused on the review and challenge of the key accounting judgements underpinning the Groups financial statements.
Refer to the Main activities during the financial yearsection on page 91for details.
The Committee has supported the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to the Groups financial reporting requirements.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and other externally reported financial information remains with the Board.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the design and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, Jim Newman in conjunction with reviewing Internal Audits work, providing Chairman of the Audit Committee assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
The Committee also reviewed the quality of the external audit process, including the identified audit risks, the audit plan and reports from the Companys auditor refer to the External auditsection on page 93.
To ensure independence and objectivity of the external auditor, as required by the Code, mandatory rotation of the Groups audit partner is required every five years.
Accordingly, a new audit partner was appointed during the year following an effective transition from the previous audit partner who stepped down at the end of the financial year ended 31 May 2015.
ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The principal roles and responsibilities of the Committee include: Monitoring and reviewingthe effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function in the overall context of the Groups internal controls and risk management Reviewing thefinancial statements and announcements relating to the financial performance and governance of the Group Reviewing an assessment of the control environment including via internal audit reports and the progress on implementation of audit recommendations Recommending the appointment of external auditors and reviewing their effectiveness, fees, terms of reference and auditor independence and objectivity The Audit Committees full terms of reference and responsibilities, are revised on an annual basis and can be found on the corporate website iggroup.
90 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE All Audit Committee members are independent Non-Executive FINANCIAL YEAR Directors who can draw on considerable and broad business The Committee focused on a number of key areas during the year and financial services experience.
During the year, Roger Yates as set out below: stepped down from the Committee following his retirement as a FINANCIAL REPORTING Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Malcolm Le May became a member of the Committee following his appointment as a In relation to financial reporting, the primary role of the Director of the Company.
The Code requires the inclusion in the Committee is to work with management and the external auditors Committee of at least one member determined by the Board as in reviewing the appropriateness of the half-year and annual having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee discharged its responsibilities Chairman, Jim Newman, fulfils this requirement.
in this area through focusing on, among other matters: The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Finance, Assessing the quality and acceptability of accounting policies Head of Internal Audit, Company Secretary and the external and practices auditors normally attend the Committee meetings.
Other directors Ensuring disclosures are clear and compliant with financial and representatives from the finance function and other areas reporting standards and relevant financial and governance of the business attend the Committee meetings by invitation reporting requirements as necessary.
Considering material areas in which significant judgements The Committee has four scheduled meetings a year and will have been applied or there has been discussion with the also meet if and when required.
The below details the meetings external auditors scheduled and attended during the year.
The Chairman, Andy Reviewing all formal financial announcements and financial Green, was invited to, and attended, all meetings.
statements prior to issuance, including preliminary and half-year announcements and recommending these to the SCHEDULED SCHEDULED MEETINGS ELIGIBLE MEETINGS Board for approval TO ATTEND ATTENDED Before recommending and approving the viability statement to 1 Roger Yates 2 0 the Board, reviewing the processes to support the assessment and determination of the Groups principal risks that may have 2 Sam Tymms 4 3 an impact on the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity Jim Newman 4 4 Evaluating on behalf of the Board whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 3 Malcolm Le May 3 2 understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groupsperformance, business 1 Roger Yates stepped down from theCommittee on 15 October 2015. model and strategy 2 Sam Tymms did not attend one meeting due to illness.
3 Malcolm Le May joined the Committee on 25 September 2015.
He was unable Reviewing the inherent risks in the financial reporting process toattend one meeting due to prior commitments.
and systems Reviewing and agreeing the Groups whistleblowing policy For each of the meetings that were not attended by a Committee To aid this review process, the Committee has considered reports member, that person received copies of presentations in advance from the Chief Financial Officer and his team, and both internal and provided input directly to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The agenda is drafted to ensurethat each of the items under the The Committee considered and discussed with management and committees terms of reference and responsibilities is covered at the external auditors the following primary areas of judgement least once in the financial year, and more frequently if required.
and disclosure in relation to the Financial Statements for the year After each Committee meeting, a formal report is made to ended 31 May 2016: the Board in which the Chairman of the Audit Committee describes the proceedings of the Committee meeting and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Members of the Committee also meet separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors to focus on respective areas of responsibility and to discuss any potential requirements for support from the Committee to address any issues arising.
91 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED REPORTING ISSUE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCLUSION ACTION TAKEN PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY For the 2016 financial reporting year onwards, the At the request of the Board, the Committee evaluated Taking into account the Directors are required to make a statement in the Annual various reports from management that set out the view of assessment by the Board Report as to the longer-term viability of the Group.
the Groups principal risks and longer-term viability.
These Risk Committee of stress reports detailed the impact of outcomes of stress tests after testing results and risk applying principal and business model risk scenarios to the appetite, the Committee Groups financial forecasts based on a three-year strategic agreed to recommend the plan.
viability statement to the Board for approval.
The Committee also received presentations from the external auditors on best practice reporting in this area.
GOODWILL In accordance with accounting standards the Group is The Committee reviewed a paper from management setting Based on the assessment required to review any goodwill balances for impairment out thekey assumptions used in the impairment review and performed, the Committee and consider the underlying assumptions involved in an associated sensitivity analysis.
concluded that there calculating the value-in-use of separate parts of the should be no change to the Itnoted the continued improved performance of the US business known as cash-generating units CGUs.
business, which has reduced the impairment risk.
Committee observed thatthe significant proportion In addition, the Groups auditor provided commentary on of the Groups goodwill relates to the UKCGU.
The the matter to the Committee.
goodwill related to this CGU was considered not impaired as it is highly profitable andits recoverable amount exceeds its carrying value.
OTHER INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS The Group is required to make judgements regarding As there is a risk of obsolescence for such assets, the Based on the assessment the useful economic life and carrying value of all its Committee reviewed a report from management detailing performed, the Committee acquired and internally developed software and licences the financially significant intangible assets, the rationale for concluded that an and domain names.
their useful economic life, their continued use within the impairmentcharge of 2.7 business and their remaining carrying value.
million recorded during the During the year, the Group continued to invest in the year was reasonable.
technology platformand to consolidate the online presence around the IG.
It has also assessed the generic top-level domains acquired in 2014.
Whilemanagement considers there to be a long-term economic opportunity, it has impaired the asset by 2.7m to reducethecarrying values which are currently unsupportable.
CORPORATION TAX Calculating the Groups current corporation tax charge The Committee reviewed a report from management that The Committee concluded involves a degree of estimation and judgement, as detailed the assumptions made in calculating the Groups that the corporation tax the tax treatment of certain items cannot be finally current corporation tax charge and provisions.
The Groups charge and provisions determined until resolution has been reached with auditor also provided commentary on this matter to recorded by the Group were the relevant tax authority.
The Group has paid taxin the Committee.
respect of the potential tax liability that may arise on these unresolved items.
However, the amount ultimately payable may be materially lower than the amount already paid, and could therefore improve the Groups overall profitability and cash flows in future periods.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS The Committee has considered the risk associated with The Committee reviewed reports from management and The Committee information technology relating to super-user access internal audit on the design, operation and on-going consideredthe risk in to certain legacy areas of the Groups trading system monitoring of a number of key controls designed to mitigate this area to have been including the risk of fraud.
the risks associated with the super-user access.
The Committees focus The Committee assessed whether the external audit process is to ensure that the addressed these matters effectively through the reporting Group continues to move received from the auditor during the audit cycle.
away from these legacy Additionally, the Committee received confirmation from systems, including the management, the internal auditors and external auditors delivery of a finance that they were not aware of any instances of fraud.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING The Group is required to ensure that its external At the request of the Board, the Committee assessed, via Having assessed all of the reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
discussion with and challenge of management, whether available information and disclosures in the Groups published financial statements the assurances provided were fair, balanced and understandable, taking into account by management, the comments received from investors and others.
Committee concluded that the processes The Committee reviewed papers from management and the underlying the preparation external auditors on legislative changes in financial reporting of the Groups published to ensure compliance with requirements.
financial statements were It sought and obtained confirmation from the Chief Financial appropriate in ensuring Officer and his team that they considered the disclosures to that those statements be fair, balanced and understandable.
were fair, balanced and understandable.
Itestablished via reports from management that there were no indications of fraud relating to financial reporting matters.
Assessed disclosure controls and procedures.
92 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT EXTERNAL AUDIT As noted above under the Role of the Audit Committee section on page 90, the Committee is responsible for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors, and for assessing and agreeing the fees payable to the Groups auditor both audit and non-audit fees.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the audit plans and reports from the external auditors.
The main activities undertaken in relation to the external audit are summarised below: REPORTING ISSUE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCLUSION ACTION TAKENEN OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT The Committee is required to oversee the work and The Committee met with the key members of the PwC audit The Committee approved performance of PwC, including the maintenance of audit team to discuss the 2016 audit plan and agree areas of the audit plan and the main quality during the period.
areas of focus, including goodwill impairment, It assessed regular reports from PwC on the progress of the valuation of intangible assets 2016 audit and any material issues identified.
and IT systems and controls.
It debated the draft audit opinion ahead of 2016 year-end.
Read more about the The Committee was also briefed by PwC on critical Committees role in accounting estimates, where significant judgement assessing the performance, is needed.
effectiveness and independence of the external auditor and the quality of the external audit on page 94.
AUDIT AND AUDIT-RELATED FEES Audit-related fees include the statutory audit of the During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved a Whilethere has been an Group and its subsidiaries, as well as audits required due recommendation from management on the Companys audit increase in the audit fees, to the regulated nature of our business.
Also included and audit-related fees.
this is driven by change in therein are fees associated with the ISAE 3000 controls scope with new offices such opinion relating to the Groups processes and controls as Dubai and the Committee over client money segregation.
considers the 2016 audit fees to be competitive.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES ANDFEES To safeguard the objectivity and independence of The Committee reviewed and approved all contracts for During the year, non-audit the external auditors from becoming compromised, non-audit fees that were above 0.1 million.
Below this level, fees of 0.6million were the Committee has a formal policy governing the the Chairman of the Audit Committee was notified of new paid to PwC as discussed engagement of the external auditors to provide noninstructions for the delivery of non-audit services.
in note 6to the Financial audit services.
The policy is reviewed on an annual basis Statements.
These The Committee ensured that firms other than the auditors and this yearthe Committee reviewed the Groups policy principally related to tax have been considered, following a competitive tender governing non-audit work against, amongother things, compliance, tax advice, process for the provision of a wide range of services, new regulations on the statutory audit of public interest andregulatorywork.
includingtax advisory services, changes to regulation, tax entities effective from June 2016. compliance services, risk and regulatory advice.
The Committee continues The policy also sets out considerations and safeguards to follow the statutory The Committee also requested and received an explanation that are required in relation to non-audit services guidance to seek to reduce from PwC of its own in-house independence process.
provided by the auditors, and the specific services the the reliance on the auditors The Committee ensured there were no exceptions to fee auditors are precluded from providing.
Additionally, the for non-audit work.
limits and approval process per the policy during the year.
policy sets out certain permitted services for which the The Committee has Committee has pre-approved management to engage proposed and implemented the auditors.
Details of the policy are provided on the a process toensure, going corporate website.
forward, the non-audit The Group is currently updating its internal process services andfees are on engagement of auditors and review of non-audit reviewed and policies services to ensure that its policy will be in line with are updated in line with the new regulation which will impact the Group.
Since the expected changes appointing PwC as auditors, the Group has established in regulation.
and developed relationships with a number of independent advisory and assurance firms which provide alternatives to engaging PwC.
During the year, PwC has performed non-audit services in accordance with the non-audit policy.
93 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Effectiveness of the external auditors auditors understanding of the Groups business.
The results were analysed and a report was presented to the Committee.
In assessing the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, the Committee considered relevant professional and Having reviewed PwCs performance during 2016, the Committee regulatory requirements and the relationship with the auditors concluded that PwC were independent and that it was in the as a whole.
The Committee monitored the auditors compliance Groups and shareholders interests not to tender the audit in 2016 with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the and recommends their re-appointment.
rotation of partners, and assessed their qualifications, expertise, Audit tendering and rotation resources as well as the effectiveness of the audit process, The Committee remains satisfied with the external audit including a report from the external auditor on its own internal process andis currently not planning to undertake a formal quality procedures.
retenderprocess until it is required to under legislation for the As part of the assessment, a questionnaire, based on criteria year ending 31 May 2021.
The Group is required to change audit recommended by professional and governance bodies, partner every five years, with this year being the first year for the was completed by the key stakeholders in the Group.
questionnaire addressed matters including the auditors integrity, objectivity, skills and technical knowledge, the quality of planning and execution of the audit, the level of challenge applied and the CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Other matters addressed by the Committee focused on the effectiveness of the Groups control environmentand performance of the Groups IT systems, and the internal audit function, including the objectivity and independence of internal audit personnel.
REPORTING ISSUE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCLUSION ACTION TAKEN INTERNAL AUDIT The Committee is required to oversee The Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the The Committee reviewed the theperformance, resourcing and Groups Internal Audit function in the overall context of the Groups resourcing and effectiveness of effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
internal controls and risk management systems.
the Internal Audit function and approved the risk-based audit It considered and approved the remit of the Internal Audit function plan.
and ensure it has adequate resources to perform its function effectively.
The Internal Audit function remains effective and has the It reviewed and assessed the risk-based Internal Audit plan.
sufficient resources to deliver the It reviewed and monitored managements responsiveness to the proposed plan.
findings and recommendations of the Internal Audit function.
The Committee receiveda summary report on the results of the work of the Internal Audit function on a periodic basis.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONTROLS The Groups operations are heavily The Committee reviewed Internal Audit reports on IT controls and From review of the Internal dependent on information technology IT.
assessments of external penetration tests and cyber risk.
Audit assessment reports, the There is a risk of loss of financial information Committee concluded that this risk if finance and other IT systems fail.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME During the year, the Committee undertook a questionnaire-based The following chart highlights how the Committee spent its time review of its own effectiveness.
The evaluation process was during the year ended 31 May 2016. externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall annual Board effectiveness review.
The review concluded that the STATUTORY REPORTING Committee was effective and its performance was highly rated.
No INTERNAL AUDIT areas with significant improvement needed were identified.
MATTERS RISKS AND CONTROLS EXTERNAL AUDIT MATTERS OTHER Jim Newman Chairman, Audit Committee 19 July 2016 94 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
