NOMINATION COMMITTEE Andy Green, Chairman of the Nomination Committee, gives his review of the Committees activities during the financial year.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee include: Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure that they are appropriately balanced in terms of skills, knowledge diversity and experience Ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors Identifying and nominating for approval by the Board, suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly succession, for appointments to the Board and to other senior management positions The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Groups website, iggroup.
Andy Green MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE Chairman of the Nomination Committee FINANCIALYEAR CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW The Committees main focus has been on overseeing the selection process and appointment to the roles of Chief Executive Officer For the Company to achieve its objectives and long-term strategy, and Chief Financial Officer following the departure of Tim Howkins it is essential that the Board is progressively refreshed and and Christopher Hill from the Board respectively.
well balanced in terms of structure, skill, experience, diversity In July 2015, we announced that Tim Howkins wouldbe retiring and knowledge.
The Nomination Committee is tasked with from the Board as Chief Executive Officer at the Companys AGM the responsibility for identifying and recommending suitable the following October.
Peter Hetherington, the Chief Operating candidates for appointment to the Board to ensure that its Officer, was appointed interim Chief Executive Officer and the composition in this regard meets the Companys needs.
Committee commenced the search for a permanent successor to Tim Howkins.
Russell Reynolds, an executive search firm which has MEMBERSHIP ANDATTENDANCE no other connection with the Company, was engaged following a The Committee consists of independent Non-Executive Directors selection process to assist with the search for a suitable candidate.
and meets as necessary to discuss appointments to the Board.
The The Committee agreed and prepared a candidate specification Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Committee and based on objective criteria, setting out the knowledge, skill, the Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
These include, among others: The Chief Executive Officer also attends, but is not involved in Having the ability to lead the Group in meeting its strategic decisions relating to his own succession.
objectives and respondingpositively to the immediate and During the year the Committee meteight times to consider Board strategic challenges facing theGroup and the industry composition and succession planning.
A track record of guiding a business division through periods MEETINGS ELIGIBLE MEETINGS of transformation to meet growth and diversification objectives TO ATTEND ATTENDED A track record of increasing shareholder stakeholder value from within a growth-oriented, highly competitive industry Andy Green 9 9 Having a strong business acumen and experience of an Stephen Hill 9 9 international consumer-focused online and mobile platform business model 1 Roger Yates 5 3 From the candidate specification, a longlist of potential external 2 Sam Tymms 9 8 and internal candidates was drawn up from which a shortlist was compiled.
Candidates on the shortlist were interviewed by me, 3 Jim Newman 9 8 following which a proposal was made to the Committee on the 4 June Felix 6 4 candidates.
Briefing reports on the shortlisted candidates were reviewed by the Committee and the candidates were interviewed 5 Malcolm Le May 6 6 by members of the Committee.
1 Roger Yates stepped down as a member of the Committee from 15 October 2015.
After a series of interviews, extensive discussion and a thorough 2 Sam Tymms was unable to attend onemeeting called at short noticedue to search process by the Committee, Peter Hetherington emerged as prior commitments.
the preferred candidate and his appointment as Chief Executive 3 Jim Newman was unable to attend a meeting called at short notice due to prior commitments.
Officer was recommended to the Board, with the appointment 4 June Felix joined the Committee on 25 September 2015.
She was unable to attend taking effect from 4 December 2015. two meetings called at short notice due to prior commitments.
5 Malcolm Le Mayjoined theCommittee on 25 September 2015.
68 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT During the year, the Committee also commenced the search DIVERSITY STATEMENT for a new Chief Financial Officer.
Spencer Stuart and Russell As a business, we are committed to maintaining a diverse Reynolds, executive search firms, with no other connection to the workforce at all levels across the Company, and more information Company, were engaged following a selection process to assist on how we do this can be found in the Our People section, with the search of a suitable candidate.
As with the search for a starting on page 16. replacement Chief Executive Officer, a position and candidate The Directors recognise the importance of gender diversity on specification was prepared, taking into account the desired skills, the Board and understand the significant benefits that come with knowledge and experience required for the role.
These include, having a diverse Board.
However, we believethat diversity is a among others: wider issue and includes variations in experience, skills, personal Having outstanding finance and leadership credentials attributes and background.
Nonetheless, we set an aspirational gathered in a high-quality, regulated, financial services business target to achieve 25% female representation on the Board.
Having proven operational commercial and functional change We will continue to appoint on merit, based on the skills and management skills experience required for membership of our Board, while giving Having broad and relevant sector knowledge from retail consideration to gender diversity when the Committee reviews financial services, asset management, insurance or the broker the Boards composition.
For appointments to the Board, we use dealer sector executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary code Following a number of interviews and extensive discussions, Paul of conduct setting out the key principles of best practice in the Mainwaring was appointed as Chief Financial Officer designate on recruitment process.
Following regulatory approval Paul takes up the role that search firms should consider gender diversity and we insist on a permanent basis and joins the Board.
on having both male and female candidates when drawing up longlists and shortlists of candidates.
During the year, Roger Yates stepped down from the Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME Committee and Malcolm Le May was appointed to the Board in September 2015 as his successor.
For his appointment, the Board took into accounthis broad experience and knowledge of the financial services and investment sectors.
Last year, we also reported that following a discussion around BOARD COMPOSITION long-term Board composition and required skills, the Committee SUCCESSION PLANNING had commenced the search for a Non-Executive Director with digital experience.
In September 2015, the Committee OTHER recommended to the Boardthe appointment of June Felix as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
June brings to the Boardsignificant international experience and knowledge of the digital sector.
We reported on the search and selection process for both Malcolm and Junes positions inour 2015 Annual Report.
In addition to overseeing appointments to the Board, the Committee reviewed membership of the Board Committees.
Following the Committees recommendation, and with the Boards approval, June Felix and Malcolm Le May joined the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee respectively and also became members of the Nomination Committee.
In addition, Jim Andy Green Newman joined the Remuneration Committee in September 2015.
Chairman, Nomination Committee 19 July COMMITTEE EVALUATION During the year, an evaluation of the performance of the Committee and its members was undertaken in line with the Committees Terms of Reference.
The evaluation process was externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall annual Board effectiveness review, details of which can be found on pages 65to 66.
The performance of the Committee was positively rated overall and the evaluation concluded that the Committee operates effectively.
69 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
