Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Report Ross McInnes Chairman of the Audit Committee Main areas of activity Dear Shareholder The Audit Committee met four times in 2016, including two results reporting meetings and two planning and I am pleased to present my third report as Chairman of the review meetings.
This report is intended to give an account of the Committee and its activity in support of the Board.
Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the The core responsibility of the Committee is oversight in relation Committee and Management has continued to make significant to financial reporting, internal financial controls and assurance progress in strengthening internal financial controls and risk provided by internal and external audit.
Based on its review of selected key controls, EY agreed with Managements assessment that the Composition of the Audit Committee level of control effectiveness at full and specific scope locations remains high at 98%.
The IT investment and infrastructure Birgit Nrgaard, Carl-Peter Forster, Isobel Sharp and I were programme will further strengthen the control environment in the members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
All of the years ahead and facilitate efficiency improvements in the audit.
Committee members are regarded by the Board as independent non-executive directors.
I have chaired the Audit Committee The Committee has received reports on the six-monthly since 1 January 2015 and became a member on 1 October Internal Control Declarations which are submitted by each 2014.
I was a career finance director until my retirement from business unit and cover internal controls in relation to financial executive office with Safran in 2015 and I have significant affairs, IT, human resources and other key areas.
The process recent and relevant financial experience.
I also chair the audit is managed by Group Assurance, which routinely audits and committees at two French public companies, Faurecia SA and follows up declarations to review scores and appropriate Eutelsat Communications SA.
My colleagues on the Committee improvement actions.
have experience at audit committee level and Isobel Sharp The Committees work also included reviewing the financial is a Chartered Accountant with a strong financial assurance statements, the effectiveness of internal financial controls and background through her career in audit practice.
Together assurance processes and the significant issues of judgement the Committee members have the skills, experience and described below.
objectivity to be an effective audit committee and constructively challenge Management.
The Committee reviewed and approved for submission to the Board the statements on going concern and viability, which The Committee generally asks the following to join its meetings: appear in the Directors Report on pages 132 to 135. the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Head of Group Finance, the Director of Risk and Compliance, The Committee remit calls upon it to advise the Board in the Group Assurance Director and the external auditor, EY.
relation to the fair, balanced and understandable requirements I consult with the Finance Director and other key staff and with in respect of the Annual Report and the Committee has the external auditor ahead of meetings to ensure issues are made a positive report to the Board in this connection.
This well understood and the meeting papers are appropriate.
is also an area for review by the auditor in relation to which it did not report any exceptions.
The statement of Directors The Committee holds at least part of several meetings each year responsibilities on page 136 includes confirmation by the alone with the external auditor and with the Director of Risk and Board that it considers the report and accounts, taken as Compliance and the Group Assurance Director.
The Committee a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
has the powers to call on any employees to come before it.
The Secretary to the Committee is the Company Secretary, During the year, the Committee received a technical and who is also the Group Legal Director.
governance update covering changes in accounting standards, developments in audit reform and other key topics.
56 IMI plc Audit Committee Report contd Attendance Pensions accounting The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the accounting Director Audit Committee % attended where treatment in respect of pension scheme liabilities, including the meetings eligible actuarial assumptions used and the impact of one-off special Carl-Peter Forster 4 4 100 pension events.
The Committee also reviewed reporting from Ross McInnes 4 4 100 the external auditor, which concurred with the accounting Birgit Nrgaard 4 4 100 for pensions as proposed by Management.
The Committee Isobel Sharp 4 4 100 supported Managements on-going effort to fide-risk its pension obligations.
Further details can be found in Section 4.5 on page 114.
Oversight of financial reporting The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the Inventory valuation Annual Report and announcements with financial content all of The Committee reviewed the judgements applied to standard which are prepared by Management.
The Committee received costing valuations and provisions against excess and obsolete reports on the annual and interim financial statements from inventory and concurred with Managements assessment.
Management and the external auditor who presented to its This was another focus area for EY, in respect of which it meetings.
The auditors report including a summary of key reported to the Committee that inventory valuation across the areas of audit focus is set out on pages 137 to 143.
1 to the financial statements on page 96 provides details of inventory valuation.
Significant judgements related to the financial statements Other judgement areas In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas requiring the exercise by Management of judgement and estimation.
In addition the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of The Committee reviews the most significant accounting areas restructuring costs disclosed as exceptional, property sales and involving such judgements and estimates and these are the adequacy of taxation provisions.
Further details on these matters can be found in Sections 2.2 and 2.4 respectively.
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles arising from External audit independence and performance review acquisitions The Committee approved the proposed external audit approach We considered the level of goodwill held on the Groups balance and its scope based on the size and level of risk of the entities sheet in respect of a number of past acquisitions and whether, concerned.
The Committee takes a risk based approach to given the future prospects of these businesses, the value of audit and other assurance activity.
The key audit risks identified goodwill in each case remains appropriate.
by EY are set out in its report on page 137 and were reviewed by the Committee in approving the audit scope and plan.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations used by Management in the assessment of any impairment of The Committee considered the independence and objectivity goodwill and intangible assets and agreed that no impairment of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the charges were required save for a 5m charge in respect of Committee had regard to the Financial Reporting Councils Stainless Steel Fasteners Limited.
Impairment was also a latest best practice guidance for audit committees.
In addition, focus area for EY which reported its findings to the Committee.
the auditor confirmed that its ethics and independence policies Section 3.2 to the financial statements on page 97 provides complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered details regarding the Groups intangible assets and goodwill Accountants in England and Wales.
and the impairment charge mentioned above.
The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work was Revenue recognition reviewed and updated by the Committee in 2016 to take account of developments in regulatory requirements and ethical The Committee discussed the timing of revenue recognition guidelines for the audit profession.
The policy requires approval on some of the Groups larger contracts.
In addition, this is an by the Committee for any non-audit engagement which is area of audit focus on which EY reported to the Committee.
The Finance Director monitors any proposed Having reviewed Managements process and EYs report, non-audit engagement of EY and refers to the Committee the Committee concluded that revenues were appropriately for approval as appropriate.
The policy does not allow work reflected in the financial statements.
Section 5 note C to the to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor financial statements on page 127 provides further information.
independence, such as, functioning in the role of management The Committee also reviewed Managements assessment of the or auditing its own work.
Non-audit fees paid to the auditor were impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 0.2m 2015: 0.2m, which represents 8% of the audit fee and which is discussed further in Section 1 on page 84. demonstrates the tight control which is maintained in this area.
No non-audit engagements involved fees above 30,000 and the main areas of activity were tax compliance and the interim Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 results review.
We are of the view that the level and nature of project planning and implementation and internal control non-audit work does not compromise the independence of declarations.
The principal projects reviewed in 2016 were the external auditor.
major computer systems implementations in each of the three divisions.
Benchmarking of the audit fee was conducted to ensure that it is appropriate and competitive and the Committee approved Group Assurance is working closely with the divisions to the proposed audit fee payable to EY.
develop improved monitoring and review processes to complement the internal and external audit coverage.
The We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit annual plan and resourcing for internal audit were approved by process.
A questionnaire was used to review the external the Committee and take account of the enhanced monitoring auditor and was completed by each member of the Committee and review activity planned within the divisions.
and by the Finance Director.
Feedback was also received from the Chief Executive, the Head of Group Finance, Group and The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Group Assurance Divisional Management.
The output from this process was with Management and received input from the external auditor.
considered by the Committee and was provided to the external The Committee was pleased to note the contribution that auditor.
As a result of this exercise the Committee believes Group Assurance had made to the further strengthening of the external auditors performance has been satisfactory and internal financial controls during the year.
the external auditor is considered to be effective.
To further enhance the external audit process, certain improvement Compliance hotline actions were identified in the effectiveness review and plans The Committee reviews the operation of the independent have been put in place by EY to address these.
These included compliance hotline for reporting concerns, oversees the a focus on improving continuity of staff and earlier completion more significant reports received and considers how these of certain locations statutory accounts.
are investigated and followed up.
We believe that the hotline process and investigations are effective and that proportionate Auditor choice, tenure and tendering action is taken by Management in response.
The Committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint EY as the external auditor at the Committee evaluation forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
EY was first appointed The Audit Committee reviewed its own performance and terms as auditor for the year-ending 31 December 2009, following of reference and received positive feedback from the evaluation a competitive tendering process, after which it replaced the exercise carried out in relation to the Board and each of its previous auditor.
The term of appointment is annual and there standing committees.
are no contractual restrictions on the Committees choice The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external Yours faithfully audit partner responsible for the Group is rotated within EY at least every five years and the current Senior Statutory Ross McInnes Auditor, Andrew Walton, has now been in place for four Chairman of the Audit Committee years and will change following completion of the 2017 audit.
23 February 2017 Succession planning has been carried out and a new audit partner designate has been approved by the Committee.
New regulations for audit tendering and rotation of audit firms have been introduced which require mandatory tendering after ten years i. e. ahead of the 31 December 2019 audit and a change of audit firm after 20 years i. e. ahead of the 31 December 2029 audit.
The Committee does not currently intend to do so but reserves the right to run a tender for the audit role at an earlier date if that is right for the Company and otherwise, will conduct a tender by the regulatory deadline.
Internal audit The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance.
Group Assurance reports through the Director of Risk and Compliance to the Chief Executive.
Group Assurance also has a direct reporting line to the Committee.
Assurance work is primarily directed towards financial control audits but has been broadened into other areas including major business change
