58 IMI plc Nominations Committee Report Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman of the Nominations Committee Review of time commitments and contributions Dear Shareholder The appointments of the Chairman and non-executive directors Composition are made on the basis of a formal letter of appointment including a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the Carl-Peter Forster, Ross McInnes, Birgit Nrgaard, Isobel Sharp, Committee.
The Committee considers that the time given to IMI Bob Stack and I were members of the Committee throughout by each non-executive director is sufficient.
The Board is satisfied the year.
All of the other members of the Committee are that I have the necessary time to devote to my role as Chairman.
regarded as independent non-executive directors.
Diversity Attendance The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can Director Nominations % attended where bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing Committee meetings eligible diversity in the businesses by voluntary measures.
We will Carl-Peter Forster 3 3 100 continue to review the composition of our management teams Ross McInnes 3 3 100 and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and Birgit Nrgaard 3 3 100 experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution Isobel Sharp 3 3 100 capabilities.
At Board level, there are six nationalities, two of the five non-executive directors are female and there is a broad mix Lord Smith 3 3 100 of backgrounds and experience.
Further information on diversity Bob Stack 3 3 100 matters is given in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 37.
Main areas of activity in 2016 No new directors have been appointed during the year.
All of Committee evaluation the directors are recommended for re-election at the 2017 The Nominations Committee reviewed its own performance Annual General Meeting.
The Board approved all of the and terms of reference and received positive feedback from the recommendations made by the Committee for the renewals evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board and each of appointment for continuing directors.
Other key areas of of its committees.
Following the Board evaluation in 2015, the activity are described below.
Committee membership during 2016 has included all of the nonexecutive directors and an update on Nominations Committee Succession planning best practice was provided for the expanded Committee.
The Committee reviews Board composition and has formulated The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
a structured, medium-term plan for Board succession.
During the year we reviewed talent development and succession planning for the top 230 roles in the Group with the support Yours faithfully of the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director.
Lord Smith of Kelvin We were encouraged to see that significant progress continues Chairman of the Nominations Committee to be made in terms of cultivating a pipeline of high-calibre talent.
Further details of the Management succession planning 23 February 2017 process are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 37.
The Committee noted the Financial Reporting Councils 2016 feedback statement on UK Board succession planning as a useful point of reference.
