Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report Set out below is the Boards formal report on corporate governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
UK Corporate Governance Code - executive directors as independent.
The Chairman was also Compliance statement regarded as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the Board diversity year-ending 31 December 2016 the Company has applied The non-executive directors are a diverse group from different the principles of good governance contained in the 2014 UK backgrounds and nationalities and bring with them a wide range Corporate Governance Code the Code and complied with its of skills and experience in commerce, finance and industry in best practice provisions.
Further details appear below, and in various parts of the world.
There are six nationalities on the the Directors Report and other cross-referenced sections of this Board and two of the nine directors are female i. e. 22%.
Annual Report, all of which are incorporated by reference into Our approach to diversity is set out in more detail in the this report.
There are no provisions in respect of which an Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 37 and explanation is needed under the comply or explain requirement.
in the Nominations Committee Report on page 58.
A description of the main features of the Companys internal control system and disclosures on other regulatory matters Under the Code, the Chairman is excluded including statements on going concern and viability can be found when considering the independent nonexecutive composition of the Board.
on pages 132 to 135 in the Directors Report.
A summary of our risk management systems and information about the risks 5 3 and uncertainties that relate to our business is detailed within the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 40 to 43.
Information on corporate responsibility can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 37.
3 Executive directors 5 Independent non-executive directors The Board Dates of appointment Composition Name Date of appointment Date of current letter Anticipated expiry of of appointment current term Throughout 2016 and to date in 2017, the Board comprised nine Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 3 January 2017 30 September 2018 directors: the Chairman: the Chief Executive: five independent Ross McInnes 1 October 2014 3 January 2017 30 September 2017 non-executive directors: the Finance Director and one Birgit Nrgaard 6 November 2012 3 January 2017 5 November 2018 operational executive director.
Isobel Sharp 1 September 2015 3 January 2017 31 August 2018 In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves Lord Robert Smith 7 May 2015 3 January 2017 6 May 2018 for election or re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Bob Stack 13 June 2008 3 January 2017 12 June 2017 The role of the Board and the clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive are outlined in the Directors Report on pages 132 to 135.
Meetings and use of Board time The Board met on six occasions during the year including Independence of non-executive directors two results reporting meetings, a day dedicated to strategy The Board considers that all five non-executive directors discussions and regular review meetings.
In addition, there were are free from any business or other relationship which could several days spent on group site visits to three operating units.
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement and all meet the criteria for independence under the Code.
Isobel Sharp is a co-director with Lord Smith on the board of the UK Green Investment Bank plc, a government owned financial institution.
Cross-directorships are recognised in the Code as a potential consideration in relation to the assessment of independence.
The Board has considered the circumstances and regards Isobel and all of the other non- 50 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Board activity Board roles and reserved matters Highlights of Board activity in the year were: A description of Board roles and reserved matters is included in the Governance Framework and summarised in the Directors Bedding in the Board and Executive membership following Report on pages 132 to 135. various changes during 2015 Reaffirming the commitment to the strategy Induction and continuing development programme Overseeing progress with growth and process investments A formal induction process for new non-executive directors is well - Continuing growth investments made in new products and established and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support business IT systems from the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
- Driving core process disciplines including lean, risk, Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing compliance, advanced product quality planning and development for non-executive directors at IMI and is based policy deployment around gaining an understanding of the business and getting Approval and review of strategy implementation including to know the wider management team.
In addition all non-executive - Manufacturing transfers in IMI Critical Engineering directors attend a corporate induction day for senior managers held at head office.
There is also a committee induction process - Adopting a new organisation structure in IMI Precision designed to brief new committee members on the relevant Engineering committees activity and the issues it faces.
- Reviewing the go to market strategy in IMI Precision Engineering Non-executive directors are required to visit business units around the Group and to meet face-to-face with senior operating - New product introductions in IMI Hydronic Engineering management and key corporate staff.
Non-executive directors Overseeing risk and the continuing actions to strengthen continue to become familiar with the businesses after induction the internal control environment and there is regular contact between management and nonReviewing talent and succession management and the executive directors during site visits, formal meetings and events.
continued embedding of our people development processes During 2016 all of the non-executive directors made site visits including succession plans, talent programmes and and the whole Board spent several days in Germany, where they improvements in management capability visited sites in both IMI Precision Engineering and IMI Hydronic Engineering.
There was also a visit to the Groups largest Board attendance UK operation.
Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing Director Board meetings % attended where eligible professional development is available to all non-executive directors Carl-Peter Forster 6 6 100 and appropriate updates are given during the year at Board and committee meetings.
Special governance and regulatory refresher Ross McInnes 6 6 100 sessions were held during the year and were attended by all of the Birgit Nrgaard 6 6 100 non-executive directors.
In 2016, these included update sessions Isobel Sharp 6 6 100 for all three of the standing committees and governance updates Lord Smith 6 6 100 for the Board which covered the EU Market Abuse Regulation Bob Stack 6 6 100 and other developments.
Mark Selway 6 6 100 Daniel Shook 6 6 100 i Roy Twite 4 6 67 i Roy Twite did not participate in two meetings due to attendance at a leadership and strategic development programme at the Companys request.
In 2017 to date the Board has met once with all members in attendance.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Board receive a tour of two manufacturing sites in Germany: top IMI Buschjost, Precision Engineering and bottom IMI Heimeier, Hydronic Engineering 52 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Board visits to IMI Buschjost and IMI Heimeier in Germany Board evaluation IMI has a substantial presence in Germany which is home to In 2016 an internal evaluation exercise was carried out through business units in all three divisions and IMIs largest European questionnaires and canvassing comments from directors.
In October the Board visited Germany where it held Board received the findings of the internal evaluation in December meetings and visited two outstanding manufacturing sites, 2016 and relevant elements were shared with the committees.
one in Precision Engineering, IMI Buschjost, and the other While the findings of the internal evaluation were overwhelmingly in Hydronic Engineering, IMI Heimeier.
positive, in keeping with the Groups commitment to continuous improvement, the Board agreed that some areas should be further IMI Buschjost is a key brand for Precision Engineering and offers developed over the coming year, including changes to the order a comprehensive range of valves ideally suited to the process of meetings.
industry including solenoid valves, angle-seat valves, motorised valves and systems for dust filters.
IMI Heimeier is a key brand Action taken in response to the internal evaluation undertaken for Hydronic Engineering and offers thermostatic radiator valves, in 2015 included the appointment of all non-executive directors actuators and room thermostats.
to the Nominations Committee and subsequent training on best practice for the expanded Nominations Committee.
During the factory tours, the engineers and machine operators had the opportunity to showcase new product development and The Board reviewed effectiveness, taking account of the operational improvements.
Local and divisional management Financial Reporting Councils best practice guidance on board made business presentations and after the site visits they enjoyed effectiveness, and the directors confirmed that the Board is dinner with the Board.
fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that the Board and its committees were effective.
Evaluations of individual The Board commended the investment in lean improvement, Board directors were also undertaken to assess whether each new products and innovation and the high standards of continuing director has demonstrated an effective contribution operational management.
IMIs core processes were seen to and commitment to the role.
The Chairman fed back to individual be well embedded at each site.
The Board was very impressed directors the relevant findings.
with both businesses and congratulated local management for the progress being made.
As senior independent director, Bob Stack conducted a review of the Chairman with the other non-executive directors and Site visits are an important, regular feature of the Board calendar.
shared the results with the Chairman.
During the year the Such visits provide an excellent opportunity for the Board to Chairman also met with the non-executive directors to review meet a wider group of employees and gain a more in-depth the performance of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman passed understanding of the business.
on to the Chief Executive appropriate feedback from the review of his performance.
In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman will arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process every three years and the next such process will be conducted in 2017 facilitated by Egon Zehnder.
Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of reference of these committees are part of the Governance Framework.
The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective chair, following each meeting.
Separate reports from the committees appear in this Annual Report as follows: Audit Committee Report on pages 55 to 57: The Board with members of IMI Buschjosts management team Nominations Committee Report on page 58 and Remuneration Committee Report on pages 59 to 71.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Ross McInnes Lord Smith of Kelvin Bob Stack Chairman Chairman Chairman Membership: Membership: Membership: Carl-Peter Forster Carl-Peter Forster Carl-Peter Forster Birgit Nrgaard Ross McInnes Birgit Nrgaard Isobel Sharp Birgit Nrgaard Isobel Sharp Bob Stack Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Financial reporting Board and committee composition Define and recommend the remuneration policy Oversight role in relation to financial statements Succession plans for the Board and for senior Determine the individual remuneration packages management and corporate roles for the most senior executives and the Chairman Reviewing significant areas of judgement and within the policy approved by shareholders accounting policies Search for and recommendation of candidates for appointment as non-executive directors, Chief Set annual and long-term incentive metrics and Reviewing the proposed statements on Executive and other executive director positions awards and determine the outcomes going concern and viability to appear in the Annual Report Diversity policy and monitoring of progress Report on remuneration matters and constructively engage with shareholders Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual Review and recommendation of proposals for Report is fair, balanced and understandable the assignment of major executive responsibilities Assess risk in respect of remuneration and and the appointment and removal of divisional incentive structures in particular Monitoring announcements in respect of business leaders financial performance Financial control and risk Reviewing the effectiveness of internal financial controls Reviewing financial risk including fraud risk Oversight of internal audit Managing the external audit process, its objectivity, effectiveness and cost Appointment of the auditor and responsibility for the audit fee Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the treatment of reports received 54 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Executive Committee In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements, as The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and well as two interim management statements between results the other members are shown on page 9.
The IMI website includes recordings of certain include the Head of Group Finance, Director of Risk and key presentations made by senior Management, recent annual Compliance, and the Head of Investor Relations.
Other senior and interim reports, interim management statements, other executives and line managers from around the Group are regularly corporate announcements and links to the websites of the called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
Committee meets monthly and more often as may be required.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience The Executive Committee is the senior Management body and of shareholders with Equiniti details are shown on page 156. as part of the broad remit set by the Chief Executive it monitors A sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme and manages business performance, reviews progress against has been established for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary strategic objectives and considers divisional management issues.
details can be found on page 156.
It also formulates budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee is a Management committee which takes its authority By order of the Board from the Chief Executive and is not a committee of the Board.
John OShea The Executive Committee plays a key part in risk assessment, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary risk management and monitoring processes and receives 23 February 2017 regular reports on health and safety, compliance, legal and corporate affairs.
Investor relations The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at Board level for investor relations and they, and the Head of Investor Relations, report to the Board on shareholder issues at every Board meeting during the year.
Financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and the Board receives regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers and public relations advisers as well as from Management.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors: during 2016 there were over 130 such meetings with institutional shareholders.
The Chairman and the senior independent director also are available to shareholders as needed and both have had contact with investors during the year.
The 2016 Annual General Meeting was presided over by the Chairman and attended by all of the directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and the directors met shareholders informally afterwards.
Each substantively separate issue was put to the Annual General Meeting as an individual motion.
A resolution for the approval of the Directors Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions are shown on the IMI website.
The Board values the support of shareholders and the poll results for all resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting were well above 90% in favour in each case.
