Corporate Governance Report Statement of Code Compliance The Company was compliant with the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
Details of compliance with Code C3.7 are given in the Audit Committee Report on page 53.
The Code can be found on the FRCs website www.
uk The information required under DTR 7 is given on pages 44 to 86 and forms part of this report.
Governance structure The Board Inchcape plc Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company Audit Remuneration Executive Nomination CR Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Financial Reporting Remuneration Policy Group Strategy Board Composition CR Strategy Risk Management Incentive plans Operational Diversity Internal Control Performance Targets Management Succession Planning Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report page 50 page 57 page 54 page 56 Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Risk oversight iPOM Group Capital Oversight of Group Minimum Control Committee Committee capital expenditure Framework Board meeting Key activities January Viability statement, Corporate Governance Review March 2016 Budget, full year results, Annual Report & Accounts, final dividend, risk review Ignite strategy Lead in customer experience May AGM, iPower review, Market Abuse Regulations update and training for Board Directors, 3 9 review Ignite strategy Leveraging our global scale Ignite strategy Invest to accelerate growth July Interim results, interim dividend, share buy back, talent planning Ignite strategy OEM partner of choice October Overseas visit to BMW Poland Annual Strategy Review December 2017 Budget, talent planning, ADR scheme, tax policy, Board evaluation 48 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS personalities, perspectives, and the independence that a really diverse Board team can bring are hugely valuable, particularly in key strategic decision-making and to help businesses evolve, grow and transform in a fast-changing world.
What skills and experience do you bring to Inchcape?
I would like to think that I bring one of the different perspectives that I mentioned earlier.
My key executive experience is in the telecoms sector, where we have seen significant disruption and digitalisation in recent years that has evolved and changed markets and businesses.
I try to bring these experiences and perspectives to the Board debates to help shape Inchcapes strategy.
I have also had significant capital markets and M&A experience, RACHEL EMPEY as well as being an experienced listed company CFO, so Non-Executive Director hope that I can support these specifics as part of Inchcapes development.
What aspect of the induction programme provided the Interview with Rachel Empey most insight into Inchcape?
What attracted you to the NED role at Inchcape?
I have found the induction programme at Inchcape very Inchcape really appealed to me because of its global helpful in getting me up and running as a new Board nature, in an industry where I have always had a very member.
I think that it is important to quickly understand strong personal interest.
At the same time a varied the basics of the business model, and what makes the business model, operating in some very diverse parts of business tick, as well as having a feeling for the culture of the world, and a business that will see significant the business.
changes innovations and digitalisations in the coming For me, the most important perspectives came from the years.
Finally, a very prestigious, successful business that opportunity to meet a wide range of the Inchcape team has ridden many financial cycles and successfully on a one-to-one to basis, as well as the chance to reinvented itself and maintained a very high reputation.
complete site visits to get a feel for the customer experience first-hand.
An experience of the brand and What benefit do you think NEDs add to Board discussions?
real-time service is invaluable in understanding where the business is and how it might move forward.
I think that NEDs bring a unique perspective to Board discussions and Company strategy.
The breadth of Overseas Board meeting and annual strategy review In 2016, the Board visited Inchcape Poland for its annual strategy day during which the Board discussed: Progress of the Ignite strategy Observations on changes in automotive market outlook The disruptive trends facing the industry Implications for the strategic plan and financials The review of the Ignite strategy also included discussion on the key considerations for each strategic objective and the risks and opportunities associated with the disruptive trends, during which the Board agreed the risk appetite for the Group and where the Group should focus its response.
The visit included a trip to the BMW dealership in Warsaw where the Board was able to meet colleagues at both the BMW and MINI showrooms as well as the office team.
The business was named best BMW F&I dealer of the year for the ninth consecutive year.
