STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Informa is committed to open and proactive engagement with Shareholders and the Board receives regular feedback and reports on this activity.
The Directors recognise that particularly during the period of change, investment and growth under the Growth Acceleration Plan, regular two-way conversations are valuable for both Shareholders and the Group.
Our programme Informa aims to communicate with Shareholders in a clear, open and informative way whilst meeting all necessary standards for public company disclosure.
The programme is led by the Director of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications & Brand, who is also a member of the executive management team.
The CEO and CFO are heavily involved in activities, and Informas Divisional CEOs take part where practical and where Shareholders have a particular interestin meeting them.
Formal 2016 engagement Formal Shareholder engagement takes place to coincide The Group aims to make all its formal investor presentations withInformas financial reporting calendar.
In 2016, there was andmaterials as accessible as possible to all Shareholders, no anin-person face to face presentation to Shareholders and matter their location or size of holding.
The Informa website at analysts on 11 February when the Groups 2015 full year www.
com was relaunched in 2015 to provide additional resultswere released, and on 28 July when 2016 half-year content and improved functionality for Shareholders.
Both were webcast live through the Informa was shortlisted for Best Use of Digital Communications corporate website.
at the Investor Relations Society Awards, and won the Corporate & Financial Award for Best Corporate FTSE 100 Website.
Informa held its AGM for Shareholders on 19 May and publisheda trading update on that day.
To accompany the All results presentation webcasts are available on the website, nine-month trading update on 7 November, a conference with video and slides archived for on demand access, and the callwas held for investors and analysts.
audio and transcript of conference calls also available.
The Group regularly encourages Shareholders to use the website to receive and access corporate materials, as a way of reducing the cost and resources involved with printed materials, and to ensure information is received in a timely way.
Colleagues who are Shareholders in the Group through ShareMatch or other personal plans are also encouraged to use these facilities, as well as internal communications messages, to stay up-to-date on developments and Group performance.
Typically, Informa holds an annual Investor Day to provide more in-depth information on a Division, topic or theme of interest to Shareholders.
In 2015 this was held in Washington DC to coincide with one of the Groups major US Exhibitions, Greenbuild.
In 2016, the Investor Day planned for 6 October was postponed because the Group was in the process of seeking Shareholder approval to acquire Penton, and a General Meeting for this purpose was held on 10 October.
The Group intends to hold anInvestor Day in 2017, during June.
Stephen Carter speaking at the 2016 Full Year Results presentation in March 2017.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED Informal 2016 engagement Topics frequently raised Informa regularly holds one-to-one meetings and conference calls with existing and potential Shareholders and analysts around the world, both through planned proactive roadshows by Shareholders and in response to ad hoc requests.
We attend a number ofinvestor conferences through the year as an efficient way toexplain the Informa equity story to large numbers of institutional investors.
In 2016, meetings took place in London, Edinburgh, New York, Boston, Paris, Barcelona and Frankfurt, amongst others.
The Growth Acceleration Plan Acomprehensive meeting programme took place after the Examples of investment projects, benefits and returns announcement of the proposed Penton acquisition, to provide information on the deal, gather the views of Shareholders and explain the details of the associated Rights Issue.
As the Group grows in size and its share liquidity grows, interest from investors in the UK and internationally continues to grow.
We operate Acquisition strategy aLevel 1 sponsored ADR programme through BNY Mellon to Deal assessment, hurdle metrics and facilitate investment from US-based Shareholders, with more than financing options eight million receipts in circulation at the end of December 2016.
RELATIONS WITH DEBT HOLDERS We run an active programme of engagement with our debt holders.
While the Group currently has no public bonds, we have Digital strategy more than 680m of US private placement loan notes held Mix of print and digital within the Group and bymore than 15 institutions.
The recently recruited new Group risk of disintermediation treasury team, following the relocation of the role to London, regularly hold conference calls and face to face meetings with these debt investors to keep them updated with developments and the latest financial results.
There is close liaison between Academic Publishing thetreasury and investor relations teams and a common Market trends, technology and impact of open access commitment to clear and open engagement.
Board oversight and governance Relations with Shareholders is a topic of reference and interest atevery Board meeting.
The Board is provided with an investor Global Exhibitions relations report ahead of each meeting and the Director of Competitive position, growth outlook and barriers Investor Relations, Corporate Communications & Brand attends to entry every meeting to discuss developments.
Topics include latest sector newsflow, Shareholder changes, share price movements, market sentiment, media coverage and investor activity, including detailed feedback from analysts and institutional investors meetings, and the latest analyst reports on the Group.
Derek Mapp, as Chairman, and Gareth Bullock, as Senior Independent Director, provide the Board with feedback on any issues raised with them by Shareholders.
Stephen Davidson, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is available to discuss Remuneration matters and Dr Brendan ONeill, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and John Rishton, as Chairman-Elect of the AuditCommittee, are also available todiscuss Audit matters withshareholders.
74 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS INTRODUCTION BOARD COMPOSITION Informa PLC is the ultimate holding company of the Group and iscontrolled by its Board of Directors.
The Companys Executive Directors statement of compliance with the Code can be found 2 on page 72.
Independent HOW THE GROUP IS LED Non-Executive Directors Informas Board is chaired by Derek Mapp and consists 8 of two Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive 10 Directors.
Their biographies, including qualifications, skills and experience, are set out on pages 68 and 69.
During 2016 the Board appointed one new independent Non-Executive Director, John Rishton.
The Boards priorities are to create value for Shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership for the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are made available so that those objectives can be met.
The Board also reviews risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND REPORTING STRUCTURE BOARD Creates value for Shareholders, approves the Groups strategic objectives and reviews risk management and internal control systems.
Read more on pages 75 to 81 NOMINATION REMUNERATION AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Read more on RISK COMMITTEE pages 22 and 87 Read more on Read more on Read more on pages 82 to 84 pages 91 to 106 pages 85 to 90 TREASURY COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Responsible for managing all operational aspects of the Group, with representation from all four Operating Divisions and key central Group functions.
TREASURY COMMITTEE ACADEMIC GLOBAL Responsible for putting in place PUBLISHING SUPPORT policies to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the Group, set appropriate limits and control and review BUSINESS KNOWLEDGE & compliance.
The policies provide INTELLIGENCE NETWORKING written principles on funding GLOBAL investments, credit risk, foreign EXHIBITIONS exchange and interest rate risk.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED 2016 BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES At each meeting, the Board receives information on current trading, Divisional performance, financing, potential acquisitions and an investor-relations analysis.
At specific times of the year, theBoard reviews and discusses budgets, capital expenditure, risks, financial statements and strategy.
The Board is also provided with updates on changes in legislation and to the businessenvironment when appropriate, as well as with regular investor feedback.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board.
All Board and Committee minutes are circulatedas soon as possible after each meeting.
Attendance atBoard and Committee meetings is noted below.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also attended each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 3,4 meetings of 11 meetings of 4 meetings of 5 meetings of 4 Derek Mapp 11 4 Stephen A. Carter 11 4 Gareth Wright 11 Gareth Bullock 11 4 5 4 1 John Davis 3 1 2 5 Dr Brendan ONeill 10 4 5 0 Cindy Rose 11 4 4 Helen Owers 10 5 Stephen Davidson 11 5 David Flaschen 10 4 2 John Rishton 3 2 1 John Davis stepped down from the Board and the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 19 May 2016.
2 John Rishton was appointed to the Board and as Chairman-Elect of the Audit Committee on 1 September 2016 and attended all meetings held following hisappointment.
3 In addition to the 11 Board meetings, four sub-Committee meetings were held to discuss and effect the acquisition of Penton Information Services.
4 Dr Brendan ONeill, Helen Owers and David Flaschen were unable to attend certain meetings at short notice, but provided their input to the meetings inadvance.
5 Dr Brendan ONeill did not attend Nomination Committee meetings when his replacement was discussed.
76 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ROLES OF THE BOARD The Group has a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors, which complies with guidance from the UK Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The respective reponsibilities are set out in brief below, and in full on the Companys website, and were last reviewed and approved by the Board in December 2016.
CHAIRMAN Leads the Board and sets the tone and agenda, promoting a culture of openness anddebate Ensures the effectiveness of the Board and that Directors receive accurate, timely andclear information Ensures effective communication with Shareholders Acts on the results of the Board performance evaluation and leads on the implementation of any required changes Proposes new Directors and accepts resignation of Directors Holds periodic meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the Executives present GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Runs the Company and is in direct charge of the Group day-to-day Accountable to the Board for its operational and financial performance Responsible for implementing the Companys strategy, including ensuring the achievement of the Groups budget and optimising the Groups resources Primary responsibility for managing the Groups risk profile, identifying and executing new business opportunities, and for management development and remuneration GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Responsible for raising the finance required to fund the Groups strategy, servicing theGroups financing and maintaining compliance with its covenants Maintains a financial control environment capable of delivering robust financial reporting information to indicate the Groups financial position Leads the finance functions and has day-to-day responsibility for finance, tax, treasury, shared services and internal audit Chairs key internal committees: the Risk Committee, the Treasury Committee and theGAP Design Authority SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Available to meet Shareholders on request Ensures that the Board is aware of any Shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communications Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and, if and when appropriate, serves asanintermediary for the other Directors Constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives Monitoring the reporting of performance Satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information Ensuring that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust anddefensible Determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors Playing a primary role in succession planning, appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors Meet without the Executive Directors present Attend meetings with major Shareholders to discuss governance and strategy COMPANY SECRETARY Responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters All Directors have access to the Company Secretarys advice and services KEY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval can be found on the Companys website.
It is reviewed annually and was lastreviewed in March 2017.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED BOARD ACTIVITY IN 2016 AND PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Board activity in 2016 The Board held 11 meetings and a further four sub-Committee meetings in 2016, during which a range of strategic, financial, operational and governance matters were discussed and debated.
STRATEGY PERFORMANCE CULTURE, FINANCIAL VALUES AND COLLEAGUES THE BOARD INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER TECHNOLOGY RELATIONS GOVERNANCE The Board reviewed and approved: PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE CULTURE, VALUES AND COLLEAGUES The performance at both Group and Updates from the Audit, Remuneration and S uccession planning, in particular relating Divisional levels with Divisional heads Nomination Committees to Dr Brendan ONeill stepping down as delivering presentations on their The Groups risk profile and principal risks aNon-Executive Director and Chairman business areas Monitored the Groups risk management ofthe Audit Committee and internal control systems and reviewed T he Groups culture and values, including FINANCIAL their effectiveness during the year specific initiatives such as Walk the The Groups full year and half-year Carried out and reviewed the results of the World and Inside Informa results and associated announcements internal Board and Committee evaluation Divisional trading results STRATEGY Discussed Board composition on the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Group and Divisional strategy under recommendations of the Nomination Dividend policy the Growth Acceleration Plan Committee The audit tender process, facilitated G roup acquisitions and disposals at The Committees terms of reference, roles by the Audit Committee all stages from pipeline to due diligence, of Chairman, CEO, Senior Independent Ongoing Group financing final approval, integration and postDirector and Non-Executive Directors acquisition performance The implementation of the impact of SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS T he acquisition of Penton and its successful the Market Abuse Regulation and the Ongoing feedback from investors with integration into the Informa Group adoption of new policies to comply with regards to the Companys strategy and M acro environment factors and their impact the new regime performance on the business, including in 2016 Brexit, The Groups compliance with changes in Analysis of the Companys share price the US election, Chinas economy, corporate governance affecting the Group and factors affecting the markets currencies and oil prices Feedback from 2015 Investor Day and INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY from meetings with major Shareholders The use of technology to facilitate growth in the Company Risks to security The need for a coordinated approach across the Divisions to ensure maximum efficiencies The progression of the GLOBE project 78 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE BOARD PRIORITIES The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
FOR 2017 They bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations and have been selected for their calibre and number to ensure their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision-making process.
The Board In 2017, the Board will continue to monitor progress considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent on the integration of Penton, the delivery of the incharacter and judgement.
Growth Acceleration Plan in its final year, and the There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to obtain performance of Informas Divisions and the Group independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, should as a whole, as well as reviewing, discussing and they consider it necessary to carry out their responsibilities.
The approving matters including: Directors contracts are available for inspection at the registered group acquisitions and disposals: office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
the Groups full year and half-yearly results, divisional trading and Annual Report and INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Financial Statements: On appointment, the Directors receive a formal induction to the Group, designed to enable them to understand the Divisions group culture and values: andthemarkets they operate in so they can be effective Board the Groups risk profile, principal risks, risk members from the outset.
This includes receiving information management and internal control systems: and about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the succession planning of the Board, its principal Board Committees, the Groups corporate governance Committees and Senior Managers.
policies and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This issupplemented by introductory meetings with key Divisional and Group level senior executives who provide detailed information about the Company, the relevant markets, the Divisions and their trading, and the opportunity to meet the external and internal auditors.
Onappointment and from time to time, Directors are reminded of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director ofa listed company.
The Chairman reviews the Directors training and development needs on an ongoing basis and on appointment toa Committee.
The Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business and the environment in which it operates by written briefings and by meetings with senior executives.
Nearly every Board meeting includes a presentation from Group senior executives The Non-Executive on a matter of topical interest.
Directors are updated on any changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Directors bring strong, Group and those which affect their duties as Directors.
They are able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure independent judgement, that they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
knowledge and Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors ahead experience to the of time in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any information specifically Boards deliberations requested by the Directors.
Non-Executive Directors receive management reports prior toeach Board meeting from the Group Chief Executive and theGroup Finance Director which enables them to scrutinise theGroups and managements performance.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
