STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We use specialist executive search consultants to identify BOARD AND COLLEAGUE DIVERSITY candidates that meet the criteria the Committee sets, after Since the launch of GAP, the Group has set out to address which all candidates, internal and external, are interviewed by diversity and inclusion throughout the Company, with arefreshed the Committee and proposed to the Board for approval.
In approach and new focus, and the Nomination Committee 2016, Russell Reynolds Associates supported the search for a wholeheartedly supported this commitment.
Non-Executive Director to replace Dr Brendan ONeill, as they The Group and the Boards belief that diversity brings competitive have done in previous years.
They are entirely independent of advantage remains unchanged, and Informa aims to recognise theCompany.
diversity in its broadest sense, including but not limited to gender, In line with its responsibilities, during the year the Committee nationality, ethnicity, professional and personal experience and age.
also reviewed the time Non-Executive Directors are required More on the specific activities conducted within the Group can to give to their roles at Informa.
We were satisfied that each be found in the talent section on page 34.
The Committee was Director is able to contribute the time, as well as the focus, care kept updated on initiatives and the progress made by the Groups and quality of attention, to fulfilling their duties to the Company AllInforma working group over the year, as well as the views and Shareholders.
The Committee also reviews the results of expressed by colleagues as part of the Inside Informa conversation.
the annual Board performance evaluation.
The Nomination Committee sees its role as reviewing engagement activities and monitoring diversity within the Group and at Board level, and to ensure legal reporting requirements are met.
As it BOARD TENURE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 stands, currently 56% of all colleagues, 33% of our leadership group of around 125 leaders and future leaders and 25% of 01 year Non-Executive Directors are female.
63% of the 730 colleagues John Rishton 1 promoted within the Group during 2016 were female.
12 years Stephen Davidson 2 David Flaschen 2 37 years 25 years Gareth Wright 2.5 Gareth Bullock 3 Helen Owers 3 Stephen A. Carter CEO 3.5 Cindy Rose 4 59 years Derek Mapp Chairman 8 Dr Brendan ONeill 8 GROUP: BOARD COMPOSITION % Average over Average over Executive Directors 2016 2015 20% Colleagues F 3,662 F 56% F 3,856 F 59% Independent Non-Executive Directors M 2,879 M 44% M 2,714 M 41% 80% Leadership group F 47 F 36% F 47 F 39% 10 M 82 M 64% M 73 M 61% Directors F 2 F 25% F 2 F 25% M 7 M 75% M 7 M 75% 83 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RELEVANT EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS Media and technology sector Business to business operations US market experience Digital and technology Financial management Governance and risk control Marketing and customers M&A The Committee received regular updates on the preparation being made to meet obligations to report on average pay levels GROUP BOARD GENDER COMPOSITION % according to gender, which will start from 2017, as well as the obligations and opportunities open to the Group under how the Female 20% UKs Apprenticeship Levy and service will operate in 2017.
The Committee is pleased to confirm that Informa has signed up to Male the UKs Living Wage Foundation, and UK colleagues are paid 80% atleast the  Living Wage, above the governments National Minimum Wage.
10 Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by DEREK MAPP Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5 March 2017 84 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
This will be my last report to Informa Shareholders as I retire from the Board prior to the 2017 AGM after nearly 10 years, having greatly enjoyed my work with the Group.
John Rishton takes over as Chairman of the Audit Committee then and the Board is confident he has the recent and relevant expertise and commitment to lead the Committees activities.
As in previous years, the Audit Committee has given significant time and attention to ensuring this Annual Report and the incorporated financial statements provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee continued to oversee the work of the Risk Committee in 2016, in fulfilling its responsibility for the effectiveness DR BRENDAN ONEILL of the Groups internal control policies and procedures for Chairman of the Audit Committee identifying, assessing, managing, and reporting risk.
During the year, as well as normal business, the Committee instigated and oversaw a tender for the Groups external audit, MAIN OBJECTIVE which led to the reappointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
In Responsible for corporate reporting, risk management and addition, the Committee was closely involved in assessing the internal control procedures, and the external audit process financial information around the acquisition of Penton Information andrelationship.
Services, overseeing the work of Deloitte who acted as reporting accountants since the acquisition was a Class 1 transaction.
FULL RESPONSIBILITIES The Committees full terms of reference can be found on the I can confirm that the Committee received sufficient, reliable and Companys website, and were reviewed and approved in timely information from the Groups senior managers to enable it December 2016. to fulfil its duties.
MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS ABOUT THE COMMITTEE The membership of the Audit Committee changed during 2016 Attendance during and consists of independent Non-Executive Directors as noted Committee 2016 of 4 opposite.
Appointments to the Committee are made on the Members member since meetings recommendation of the Nomination Committee to the Board.
TheBoard and Committee alike are satisfied that its members Dr Brendan ONeill 1 January 2008 4 have the broad commercial knowledge, competence in the Chairman of the Committee sector in which the Group operates, mix of business and financial 1 John Rishton Chairman-Elect 1 September 2 experience and resource to effectively discuss, challenge and of the Committee 2016 oversee key financial matters within the Group and fulfil their full responsibilities.
Members are independent in their judgement David Flaschen 1 October 2015 4 and mindset.
The biographies of the members of the Committee Gareth Bullock 1 January 2015 4 can be found on pages 68 and 69.
Performance evaluation of the Committee during the year is explained on page 80.
Cindy Rose 1 August 2013 4 2 John Davis 1 October 2005 1 The Committees Chairman during 2016, Dr Brendan ONeill, isaqualified management accountant and has extensive 1 John Rishton was appointed to the Board and as Chairman-Elect of the experience of Audit Committee procedures.
The Chairman-Elect, Audit Committee on 1 September 2016.
John Rishton, who will become Chairman in May 2017, is also 2 John Davis retired from the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee aqualified accountant and is currently Audit Committee on 19 May 2016.
Chairman of Unilever plc and Serco Group plc.
He has previously been Audit Committee Chairman of Allied Domecq plc and Rolls-Royce plc.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee met four times during 2016, with John Rishton As noted in the Leadership and Effectiveness report on page 79, attending the two meetings held following his appointment to the allnew members of the Board and the Committee follow a formal Board in September.
These meetings are structured to allow a induction programme on appointment when they are provided full, open and robust investigation into key accounting, audit and with detailed information on the Group.
The Board as a whole is risk issues relevant to the Group.
provided with updated information on legal and governance requirements on an ongoing and timely basis.
Members of the The whole Board is invited to and has attended the Committee Committee are able to obtain training, at the Companys expense, meetings this year.
In addition, the Head of Group Finance, on any legal or accounting requirements required to fulfill their roles.
Internal Audit and, when appropriate, the Head of Group Tax, the Director of Risk & Compliance and the Group Treasurer are also The Committees terms of reference mean it can obtain invited to attend, so that information can be shared effectively independent external advice at the Companys expense.
and the relevant managers can be questioned directly.
Twice a No such advice was obtained during 2016. year, Committee meetings conclude with private meetings with The external audit partner is William Touche from Deloitte LLP.
the external and internal auditors.
Outside the meeting cycle, the Heis a qualified accountant, a senior audit partner in the London Audit Committee Chairman is in regular contact with the Board audit practice and a Vice Chairman of the UK firm.
He first Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the actedas the Groups external audit partner for the year ended External Audit Partner and the Head of Internal Audit.
31December 2015 and has therefore served two of a maximum of five years.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2016 Over the year, the Committee undertook activities to review of the external auditors plan for auditing the meet its key responsibilities and objectives, including: Groups financial statements, including the scope of work and key risks on the financial statements, External reporting and accounting policies: confirmation of auditor independence and approving the review of the Groups draft 2015 full year and 2016 half terms of engagement for the audit: year results statements before the Boards approval, as review and approve the annual Internal Audit plan, well as the external auditors detailed reports.
This reviewing the work done by Internal Audit and included reviewing the opinions of management and monitoring of the subsequent actions: and the external auditor on the carrying values of the review and approval of the decision to maintain Groups assets: the outsourced Internal Audit function and the review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements reappointment of KPMG LLP in this role.
including the annual risk review, viability statement, Risk management and monitoring: going concern and taxation risks and disclosures with a focus on ensuring the financial statements were fair, oversight of the operations of the Groups Risk balanced, and understandable: Committee including regular consultation with the review of the impact on the Groups financial statements Head of Internal Audit: of matters including the adoption of new or amended review of the Groups system of controls and its accounting standards: and effectiveness and approval of the compliance with the review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Code requirements: and policies.
review of the appropriateness of the Groups tax policies and management of tax risks.
External and internal audit: Group-wide resource platform: conduct of audit tender, and recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the review of the plans for and development of the GroupGroups external auditor: wide enterprise resource platform scheduled to go live review, negotiate and agree the audit fee and review and in 2017.
Further details can be found in the Global approval of non-audit services and related fees payable Support section starting page 53. to the Groups external auditor: 86 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS As noted in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 100, the Impairment of assets Note 16 remuneration of the Chairman of the Audit Committee reflects the Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment of assets demands and time commitment of the role.
The Committee also involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of has access to the services of the Company Secretary on all Audit the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period, an Committee matters and he provides necessary practical support.
assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance OVERSEEING THE RISK COMMITTEE of our businesses, any significant changes to the markets in One of the Audit Committees responsibilities is to oversee the which we operate and future forecasts.
For impairment testing work of the Risk Committee.
As detailed in the Leadership and purposes, goodwill is allocated to the specific cash generating Effectiveness report on page 75, the Risk Committee reports unit CGU which is expected to benefit from the acquisition.
tothe Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director, Gareth When there are changes in the business structure, judgement Wright, is the Chairman.
The Committee comprises the CFO of isrequired in identifying any changes to the goodwill value of the each Division, the Group CIO, General Counsel and the Director CGUs taking account of the lowest level of independent cash of Talent & Transformation, meeting quarterly.
Its principal inflows generated and the level at which the Chief Operating dutiesinclude: Decision Maker monitors the performance of the business.
Providing guidance to the Board and Audit Committee There are a number of assumptions the Group has considered regarding the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and inperforming impairment reviews of assets.
Note 16 details the strategy: assumptions that have been applied.
The determination of whether Overseeing and advising the Board and Audit Committee assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value-in-use of onthecurrent risk exposures of the Group and recommend the CGUs to which assets have been allocated, except where fair risk strategy: value less costs to sell is applied.
The value-in-use calculation Reviewing the Groups overall risk assessment processes, requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected theparameters of the qualitative and quantitative metrics toarise from each CGU using projections for five years and usedtoreview the Groups risks and confirm the actions determining a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present takentomitigate such risks: value, and the long-term growth rate.
The sensitivities considered Oversee processes to ensure the Groups adherence to the by the Directors are described in Note 16. approved risk policies: Reviewing reports on any material breaches of Group policies Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible andthe adequacy of proposed actions: assets Note 17 Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable controls and internal controls and risk management systems: intangible assets on a business combination, the Group is Reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys required to make estimates when utilising valuation methodologies.
arrangements for its Colleagues and contractors to raise Associated with this is deferred tax on these intangibles.
These concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows and reporting or other matters: and revenue forecasts.
For major acquisitions, defined as those with Reviewing the Groups insurance arrangements.
consideration at or above 50.0m, the Group considers the advice of third-party independent valuers in identifying and calculating Further details of this governance structure and developments the valuation of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
inthe Groups risk framework can be found in Risk management and principal risks on pages 2231.
Identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired inbusiness combinations Note 18 FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT There are significant judgements involved in assessing the JUDGEMENT AREAS provisional amounts recognised in respect of the fair value In evaluating the appropriateness of the financial statements, the ofassets and liabilities acquired through business combinations, Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have in particular the amounts attributed to separate intangible assets been adopted and whether management has made appropriate such as titles, brands, acquired customer lists and the associated estimates and judgements.
The Committee reviews accounting customer relationships.
These judgements impact the amount papers prepared by management which provide details on the ofgoodwill recognised on acquisitions.
The fair values of assets main financial reporting judgements.
The Committee also reviews recognised are based on recognised valuation techniques built, reports by the external auditor on the full year and half-yearly in part, on assumptions around the future performance of the results which highlight any issues identified in their audit process.
The Group has built considerable knowledge of During the year end process, the Committee concentrated on the thesevaluation techniques but notwithstanding this, for major following significant judgement areas: acquisitions, defined as those with consideration at or above 50.0m, the Group considers the advice of third-party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising in business contributions.
Details of business combinations in the year and the provisional values in relation toPenton are set out in Note 18.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Recoverability of loan note receivables Note 23 EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Group had a number of external receivables which were The Committee takes seriously its responsibility for the repayable over the next two to five years, mostly vendor loan development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups notes receivable in relation to disposed businesses.
The policy on external audit.
This policy assigns oversight responsibility recoverability of the capital and interest payments is dependent for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance on the financial success of the counterparties over the coming withethical and regulatory requirements to the Committee, and years.
In making its judgement in respect of recoverability, the day-to-day responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
It states Group assesses for each significant loan receivable whether a that the external auditor is jointly responsible tothe Board and credit provision is required.
During 2016 the counterparty which theCommittee and that the Committee is theprimary contact.
purchased the Performance Improvement businesses in 2013 The policy also sets out the categories of non-audit services entered into restructuring negotiations with its creditors and which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide consequently the loan and accrued interest receivables were to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
There was also a partial recovery To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the fora previously fully provided loan note relating to Robbins Gioia external auditor, the Committee reviewed: again, see Note 20.
Following these results, the position relating to the Performance Improvement businesses and Robbins Gioia the external auditors plan for the 2016 year-end audit, noting present no further exposure to the Group.
Details of the remaining the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the carrying value for long-term receivables are in Note 23. auditreport and who, in accordance with professional rules, has held office for two of a maximum permissible five years, Adjusted results Note 8 and 15 and any changes in the key audit staff: The Group presents adjusted results Note 8 and adjusted the arrangements for day-to-day management of the diluted earnings per share Note 15 to provide additional useful auditrelationship: information on underlying performance and trends to shareholders.
a report from the external auditor describing its arrangements These measures are used for internal performance analysis and to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and incentive compensation arrangements for colleagues.
Adjusted the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the results exclude items that are common across the media sector: externalauditor, in addition to its approval of the provision amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets ofnon-audit services by the external auditor that exceed relating to businesses acquired and other intangible asset thepre-approval threshold.
purchases of titles and exhibitions, acquisition and integration costs charged to the Consolidated Income Statement, profits To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the orloss on disposal of businesses, restructuring costs and other Committee reviewed: non-recurring items that in the opinion of the Directors would the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors distort underlying results.
The term adjusted is not a defined independence and objectivity: term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
anyvariations from the plan: It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its measurements of profit.
The Audit Committee reviews the handlingof the key accounting and audit judgements: and composition of adjusted results for appropriateness and consistency the content of the external auditors reporting on internal control.
Refer to Note 8 for details of adjusting items recorded for the year and reconciled to statutory operating profit.
88 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
