STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE management in the day-to-day running of the business.
A full list of the Boards activities can be found on page 78.
The Board adopts a collaborative, challenging and purposeful approach to governance.
Each Director actively engages at formal Board meetings and during other informal exchanges.
My aim as Chairman is to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to contribute to discussions, and that these conversations are open and direct.
Board decisions are made collectively, with input from each Director.
There is also a high level of interaction and an ongoing flow of information between the Board and the Executive team, ensuring oversight and providing the opportunity to advise and support.
By way of formal engagement, there were seven scheduled faceto face Board meetings in 2016.
In addition, there were four DEREK MAPP ad hoc Board and four sub-Committee meetings to discuss Chairman strategic opportunities and specifically to approve the acquisition of Penton.
As with previous years, the scheduled meetings rotated around some of the Groups UK offices to give Directors an inside DEAR SHAREHOLDER perspective on some of our operations, and in 2017 the intention It is my pleasure as Chairman of Informa PLC to report on is to hold the strategy and Board meeting in Boulder, Colorado ourcontinued growth and progress in building scale in the toreflect the Groups growing presence in the US market.
At Knowledge and Information Economy in which we operate.
strategy meetings, the executive management and Divisional senior management teams present detailed three-year plans and As Informa grows and expands internationally, our governance the Groups long-term objectives and ambitions are reviewed.
responsibility for the Groups many activities also increases, and your Board is constantly seeking to adapt and respond to meet Before each Board meeting, there is typically a dinner with our responsibilities to Shareholders and other stakeholders.
members of the Executive team and other senior leadership toencourage further interaction and allow for discussion on The Informa Board comprises 10 Directors, eight of whom abroad range of issues.
Each regular Board meeting tends to are independent, and three Committees that oversee specific include a segment for one of the Informa teams to present on remits: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
Over the course of a typical year, we estimate continues to becompliant with the principles of the 2014 theBoard has regular contact with more than one-third of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As Chairman, senior leadership group of 150 colleagues within Informa.
I can confirm on behalf of all the Directors that we take our responsibilities under the Code seriously, discharging our Outside of these formal gatherings, as Chairman, I work closely duties with care and attentionand keeping up to date with with the Group Chief Executive, who has now been an Executive the latest governance developments through briefings from and Non-Executive colleague for nearly seven years.
We have the Company Secretary and other sources.
meetings to plan agendas and board meetings, supplemented by weekly discussions and exchanges to keep abreast of the latest Additional information on compliance with the Code and market and Group developments.
the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA can be found on page 72.
Informas values and culture are an ongoing focus for the Board, and this is discussed further in my introduction to the Strategic FOCUS AND APPROACH Report, as well as in the talent section.
As the Group grows and The primary focus of the Board is to ensure the long-term success broadens its geographic footprint, bringing in new colleagues, of the Informa Group in a way that creates value for Shareholders.
capabilities and infrastructure, it is important that the essence of We also fully consider the interests of colleagues, how the Group what makes Informa unique and different remains.
Colleagues maintains positive, long term and sustainable relationships with must retain the opportunity and freedom to be creative and suppliers and customers and upholds high standards of business contribute to life within the Group, while the Group must continue conduct, and the impacts of what Informa does, and how, on our to provide the support that enables talent to develop and communities and environment.
We discuss our relationships with maximise its potential.
communities and suppliers in the sustainability section, and with colleagues in the talent section, on pages 32 and 34.
BOARD HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 As can be seen in the Strategic Report, 2016 was a busy and To this end, the Directors collectively set the strategy for productive year during which the Group continued with its the Group, currently reflected in the 20142017 Growth programme of simplification, investment and measured change Acceleration Plan, monitor its effectiveness and implementation, under GAP.
This included further international expansion, most ensure the Group has the resources to deliver on this strategy notably through the addition of Penton Information Services in and encourage, support and challenge Informas executive theUS.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE CONTINUED In keeping with our commitments and responsibilities, one of Audit Committee before the 2017 AGM.
I would like to thank theBoards main activities was to thoroughly assess the case Brendan for his outstanding commitment and support, and say foradding Penton to the Informa Group, including the plan to that hiscontributions to Informa over the last nine years have integrate its operations and culture with Informa.
Other important Board activities during the year included a In September 2016, John Rishton joined the Board as a review and update of Informas guidance on risk appetite and Non-Executive Director and Chairman-Elect of the Audit tolerance, overseeing a re-tender for the Groups audit and Committee, to ensure an orderly handover before Brendans remuneration advisers through the relevant Committees, and retirement.
The Board continuously reviews its composition regular reviews of the Groups technology and information toensure there is the independence, diversity, governance security strategy.
The Board also reviewed and monitored expertise and range of capabilities necessary to support plans and progress to upgrade Informas enterprise resource theGroup effectively.
John brings significant international platform capabilities, given the increasing international scale experience and financial acumen to the Board, and we and breadth of the Group.
More information onthese areas welcome him warmly.
can be found in the Reports that follow.
As we enter 2017, I am confident that the Board has a strong balance of skills, experience and expertise that will ensure BOARD MEMBERS The Informa Board continued to evolve in 2016, with the retirement governance of the Group on behalf of Shareholders continues of a long-standing colleague and the appointment of a new tobe robust.
Along with the other Directors, I look forward to Non-Executive Director with extensive and relevant knowledge engaging with Shareholders at the AGM and throughout the and expertise.
As confirmed last year, John Davis stepped down in May 2016 DEREK MAPP after 10 years as a Non-Executive Director, and Dr Brendan Chairman ONeill will retire from the Board and as Chairman of the COMPLIANCE STATEMENT COMPLIANCE STATEMENT This report, along with reports from the Audit Committee, the Informas Board is accountable to the Groups Shareholders for Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Report explain its standards of governance, and is committed to the principles how Informa applied the principles of good governance set out ofcorporate governance contained in the Code of the Financial inthe Code.
The Audit Committee has been provided with suitable supporting The Board is pleased to report that Informa complied with material to review the Annual Report and Financial Statements, theprovisions of the Corporate Governance Code published and in accordance with the Code, has provided assurances for the inSeptember 2014 the Code which can be viewed online Board to confirm that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, athttps: www.
uk Our-Work Publications Corporatetaken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
Board also confirms that the Annual Report contains sufficient information for shareholders to assess the Companys The Board monitored the Companys risk management systems performance, business model and strategy.
and also carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
The Board monitored material controls by exception through the Risk Committee and it was recognised that active control monitoring as envisaged by provision C. 2.3. could be tightened and will be carried out bytheRisk Committee on a quarterly basis.
72 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
