GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Informas Directors are made aware that their performance is subject to evaluation.
The Board has a formal and rigorous process for evaluating the performance of its principal Committees and individual Directors on an annual basis.
This process was last carried out in November 2016 and was led by the Chairman.
The last fully independent external Board evaluation was carried out at the end of 2014 by Independent Board Review, a division of Independent Audit Limited, and in 2017 Independent Board Review will carry out another full external evaluation in compliance with the Code.
The 2016 evaluation concluded that, as a whole, the Board adds value to the Group with members contributing fully at Board meetings.
The Board identified the following action points for 2017: GENDER DIVERSITY The proportion of females on the Board is currently 20%.
Further discussions are required on the potential to increase female representation, particularly in the Executive team.
US KNOWLEDGE EXPERIENCE More US exposure can be achieved by planning visits and Board meetings in the US.
CUSTOMER FOCUS Divisional management to increase attendance at Board meetings and general contact with the Board to allow Non-Executive Directors to gain further insight into the Groups customer base and customer behaviours.
AUDIT COMMITTEE To continue to run efficiently under John Rishton as Chairman.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Review and develop a clear long-term remuneration strategy.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Board is constantly evolving and has a diverse spread of complementary talents.
Nomination Committee to take responsibility for monitoring diversity as well as ongoing talent management and equality.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent powers, duties and responsibilities.
This relates to their role Director, meet at least annually to appraise the Chairmans asDirectors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or as a performance.
The Directors feel the Chairman operates highly Trustee of an occupational pension scheme for colleagues of effectively in setting the agenda and priorities, and managing theCompany.
The indemnity would not provide coverage where appropriately focused decisions.
Important decisions have been the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
taken in a collegiate manner with appropriate analytical inputs, Information on appointments to the Board in 2016 can be found and the style mix of informal and formal discussions is welcome.
in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 82 to 84.
The Company has purchased and maintains Directors and Officers RE-ELECTION insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for The Companys Articles of Association the Articles provide claims in connection with any act or omission by its Directors forall Directors to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
andofficers in the execution of their duties.
The performance evaluation of the Board concluded that each Director remains effective, committed and is able to devote the DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST required time to their role.
In addition, as a result of the evaluation, The Articles include provisions covering Directors conflicts of the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director remains interest.
They allow the Board to authorise any matter that would independent.
All Directors will stand for re-election at the 2017 otherwise involve a Director breaching his or her duty to avoid AGM except for John Rishton who will stand for election and, conflicts of interest.
The Company has procedures in place to DrBrendan ONeill, who will retire as Non-Executive Director deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest.
andChairman of the Audit Committee after serving nineyears Aspart of this process, the Board will endeavour to: onthe Board.
consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the Articles: The Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the keep records and Board minutes on authorisations granted extent permitted by English law and the Articles, in respect of any byDirectors and the scope of any approvals given: and liability arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their regularly review conflict authorisations.
80 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS In 2016, none of the Directors had any unauthorised conflicts of Financial analysis each Divisions operating profitability interests.
The Board acknowledges that Dr Brendan ONeill is a andcapital expenditure are closely monitored.
Management Non-Executive Director of Willis Towers Watson Inc. and Willis incentives aretied to in-year and longer-term financial results.
Towers Watson is an adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
These results include explanations of variance between Italso acknowledges that Cindy Rose is Chief Executive Officer forecast and budgeted performance, and are reviewed in detail of Microsoft UK, Gareth Bullocks son is a colleague and Stephen by Executive Management on a monthly basis.
Key financial Davidson is Deputy Chairman of Jaywing.
Jaywing is a information is regularly reported to the Board.
consultancy firm involved in the Companys Growth Acceleration Group authority framework the framework provides Plan projects taking place within the Companys Business clearguidelines on approval limits for capital and operating Intelligence Division.
expenditure andother key business decisions for all Divisions.
Risk assessment risk assessment is embedded into the INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT operations of the Group and is reported upon to the EMT, The Board is responsible for Informas system of internal controls RiskCommittee, Audit Committee and the Board.
The system is designed to Compliance compliance controls have been strengthened in managerather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 2016 and are based on the US Federal Sentencing Guidelines.
It can only provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, a The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups concept that recognises that the cost of control procedures system of internal controls, including financial, operational and should not exceed itsexpected benefits.
compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The Audit Committee has been Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group rests charged by the Board with oversight of the above controls and with the Group Chief Executive, supported by the Executive has considered the following factors in determining the overall Management Team EMT.
The EMT includes the CEO of each effectiveness of the Groups risks and associated control of the four Divisions, the Group Finance Director, the Director of environment: Strategy & Business Planning, the Director of Investor Relations, Brand & Communications, the Director of Talent & Transformation The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Audit Committee, and the General Counsel & Company Secretary, who met reports on the effectiveness of risk management, governance bi-weekly by call and bi-monthly in person in 2016 to consider and compliance activity within the Group.
theimplementation of Group strategies, plans and policies, to The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to monitor operational and financial performance and to manage beundertaken by the Groups Internal Audit team during risks.
Each Division is given operational autonomy, as far as theperiod.
Itreceives reports on any issues identified around possible, within an internal control framework.
The Strategic the Groups business processes and control activities over Report on pages 37 to 55 details the activities of the theGroups key risk areas, including following up on the OperatingDivisions.
implementation of management action plans to address any identified control weaknesses, andreporting any overdue As illustrated in the Risk Management section on page 22, actions to the Audit Committee.
theBoard has a risk management framework for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
KPMG LLP is engaged to provide the Group with Internal Oversight of risk management was strengthened and enhanced Auditservices and acts as Head of Internal Audit.
in 2016 and was in place throughout the year, up to the date of Separate reports from the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and is Committees can be found on pages 82 to 106. inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Informas internal control and risk management systems and procedures around financial reporting include: RUPERT HOPLEY Company Secretary Business planning each Operating Division produces and 5 March 2017 agrees an annual business plan against which the performance of the business is regularly monitored.
This function and process strengthened in 2016.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Nomination Committee met four times in 2016 to discharge its duties around assessing the composition of the Board and reviewing the way in which the Groups colleagues are engaged and diversity maintained.
The composition of the Informa Board has gradually evolved over the last four years, as Directors have retired or stood down to align with the Codes guidance on length of tenure, and as the Informa Groups strategy under the Growth Acceleration Plan has called for members with specific new skills and a different range of experience.
In 2016, it was announced that Dr Brendan ONeill would retire from the Board and as Audit Committee Chairman on 26May 2017 after nine years of service.
DEREK MAPP As a result, one of the Committees key activities over the Chairman of the Nomination Committee yearwas to secure a successor with the skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity to be an effective member of the Board.
MAIN OBJECTIVE This search process resulted in the Committee recommending Responsible for ensuring there is a formal, rigorous and John Rishtons appointment to the Board and as Chairman-Elect transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors of the Audit Committee.
He joined on 1 September 2016 and will tothe Board and its Committees.
stand for formal election at the 2017 AGM.
FULL RESPONSIBILITIES In 2017, the Committee will keep under review the succession The Committees full terms of reference can be found on the plans for Directors and key roles in the Group, and the Companys website and were reviewed and approved by the composition of the Board as a whole.
It will also continue Board in December 2016. tomonitor the training and awareness programmes in place tosupport colleague diversity across the Group, and the MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE practices that ensure the Group attracts colleagues with the range of skills, backgrounds and experiences necessary for Attendance during theGroups future success.
Committee 2016 of 4 Members member since meetings HOW THE COMMITTEE WORKS The key role we play is to keep under continual review how the Derek Mapp 10 March 2008 4 Board is structured now and might be in the future, its size, its Chairman of the Committee composition, the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, 1 Dr Brendan ONeill 1 January 2015 experience and diversity the Directors represent and contribute, all with a view to ensuring the Board can effectively oversee the Stephen A. Carter 1 January 2015 4 Group and deliver Shareholder value.
As part of this, we review Gareth Bullock 24 July 2014 4 and implement any feedback and results from the annual Board performance evaluation relating to Board composition.
Cindy Rose 24 July 2014 4 Under the Groups current growth strategy, which involves 1 Meetings were held to discuss Dr Brendan ONeills replacement as broadening its reach internationally, investing in digital platforms a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and bringing new discipline to its financial model, the Committee Consequently, Dr Brendan ONeill was not present at these meetings.
particularly looks for skills including international operating experience, expertise in technology and media markets and financial qualifications.
When considering succession planning for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the skills and leadership needs of the future, we look at candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, believing that as with the Groups colleague base as a whole, diversity can bring competitive advantage and better outcomes.
82 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
