22 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS DELIVERING A POSITIVE IMPACT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY We have separate policies in place dealing with The Board believes ethics, fraud, the use of inside information and Employee feedback from the corporate .
We ask Directors, employees and format Pulse Survey in 2015, and detailed in corporate and social contractors to confirm they understand these our 2015 Annual Report, supported our continued policies and how they are applied, once a year.
focus in 2016 on learning and development, career responsibility is an development, reward systems and introducing We have a worldwide anonymous telephone work processes and work flows.
We maintained service for employees to use if they have any important part of the investment in learning and development, governed concerns.
No calls were received by the external by an active Steering Group of a cross-section provider in 2016.
Groups culture and of people from around the globe, and we tailored our bonus programme to meet the needs of our VALUES business.
In addition, we set up a process excellence the adoption of good During 2016, we initiated Inmarsat 2020 to team dedicated to creating processes and help shape our vision, united by a common set structures, including six-sigma training for project practice will have a of values and a clear purpose to help us succeed owners.
We have already seen the benefit in the in a disruptive digital world.
We looked at what sort efficiency of projects following training attendance.
of organisation we want to be, what we need to positive impact on In parallel, the Maritime Business Unit pioneered a change to get there and how to do it.
We invited short monthly Compass survey for its employees, a cross section of people of all levels, across the the business.
achieving a response rate of 83% which was a business to create focus groups to help build ideas consistently high level of participation.
The and themes about Inmarsats future.
Ensuring we act in an ethical manner, taking Maritime team also implemented a cultural change account of our responsibilities socially and An invitation group of more than 10% of our programme that monitors staff feedback on key environmentally is important in the way we employees participated and the output from these strategic areas, such as leadership, environment, operate and interact with our stakeholders, workshops formed the basis of a Global Leadership vision and direction in real time.
including investors, employees, suppliers and Team Create the Future meeting comprising the business partners.
This way of working contributes Building on the success of the Maritime survey, top 50 leaders in the organisation.
The outcome of to how we create value for all our shareholders.
Inmarsat will launch a global quarterly engagement this meeting enabled us to embark on a number of survey in 2017, utilising the latest survey Quests in service of our vision.
As a result, whilst OUR PEOPLE technology which provides instant results, our current Values Passionate, Open, Enterprising, thereby enabling us to take action quickly at an Market-Driven and the Inmarsat Qualities have Building our culture at Inmarsat continues to organisational and business unit level.
In addition, served us well, we will refresh them during 2017 be a priority and, over the last three years we have managers will have immediate data analytics to keep pace with the changes around us.
focused on aspects of that: 2014 was our Year of and insights about their teams to help them take Engagement, 2015 our Year of Enablement and local actions.
DIVERSITY OF EMPLOYEE BASE AND 2016 our Year of Effectiveness.
NON-DISCRIMINATION The Year of Effectiveness theme drove a number of CODE OF CONDUCT We do not tolerate discrimination in any form key activities during the year, including enhancing Our Code of Ethics requires Directors, officers, race, gender, age, culture and disability against our learning and development offer to employees, employees and contractors to conduct business our employees, either from other employees or developing a roadmap to ensure consistency of with the highest standards of personal and third parties.
Anonymous helplines and email job levels and compensation across the business, professional integrity.
A copy of our Code is addresses are available for employees to use and implementing an organisational restructure to published on our website.
if they experience or see discrimination, and improve collaboration and accountability.
Finally, employees are also encouraged to speak directly we began the process of developing a new People We comply with local laws where we operate, to their manager should they feel comfortable Strategy with the objective of further enhancing and across our Group we ensure our employees doing so.
business performance and making Inmarsat an comply with the UK Bribery Act and the US even better place to work.
This will continue to Foreign & Corrupt Practices Act.
A summary When recruiting, we value diversity in its broadest be developed and implemented in 2017. of our anti-bribery policy can be found on our definition and work to provide opportunities for all, website.
As part of our commitment to preventing including for disabled employees reviewing the The following sections cover some key areas bribery and establishing a culture that does requirements of their working environment to of focus in building our culture.
not tolerate corruption wherever and in whatever accommodate practical changes as far as possible form it takes, we ask our Directors, employees to allow them to continue in their daily work routine.
ORGANISATIONAL RESTRUCTURE and contractors to confirm annually that they If such changes were unrealistic to implement, we 2016 saw significant changes to our organisational understand the restrictions outlined in the policy would review alternative employment options for structure: bringing people who perform similar roles and the implications for breaching the policy the individual within the Group.
across Inmarsat into the same function, team or for the business and them as individuals.
Our We are very proud that we have 65 different group to improve collaboration and accountability.
anti-bribery policy operates in line with current nationalities within the Inmarsat Group.
This As a result, Business Units are focused on customers legislation.
The policy also incorporates guidelines breadth of employee culture and experience and markets, while engineering, IT and other on dealing with gifts and accepting and giving supports our Best Workplace theme as everyone non-customer facing functions have been hospitality.
contributes to our business operations.
moved to our Engineering, Operations and support divisions.
We also established a new Cyber and Digital function to ensure that we are well equipped for future challenges.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 23 We recognise the importance of diversity amongst LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT During 2016, one third of our total spend on our employees and are committed to ensuring that learning and development was on technical and 2016 was a formative year for learning and employees are selected and promoted on the basis job-specific training, with around the same again development activity.
We continued to take of merit and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, spent on leadership development.
The remaining advantage of our considerable internal talent pool religion, sexual orientation or disability.
The gender third was distributed among localised education by encouraging employees to apply for internal split across the Group excluding contingency sponsorship and behavioural cultural promotion opportunities and seek development workers as at February 2017 is illustrated in the development programmes.
opportunities to extend their skills and experience.
Several senior leadership roles were filled internally, HEALTH AND SAFETY including the appointment of the President of our February 2017 gender split across the Group Enterprise business unit.
The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual update on health and safety activity across the Group.
In addition, we piloted a new all-employee Male Female Rupert Pearce, CEO, has been identified as having programme to improve the frequency and responsibility for health and safety issues within the Diversity of plc Board 93 quality of career development and performance Group.
We have a dedicated Health and Safety conversations between managers and team Diversity of Executive Manager who is located in our headquarters office members, and to encourage creative thinking Management Board 10 2 and our subsidiary operations have identified on development opportunities.
The programme managers responsible for health and safety.
Diversity of senior will roll out globally in 2017. managers 164 28 Our goal is to encourage strong leadership in Our new joiner induction programme was also Diversity of all championing the importance of, and a commonimproved and reformatted for global accessibility.
employees excluding sense approach to health and safety in the Our flagship in-house global leadership contingency workers 1,216 527 workplace.
We recognise the need to provide development programme completed its second a safe working environment for our employees, successful year in 2016, and added a second contractors and any visitors.
Regular health and The detail of females on the Executive module.
We continued to focus on leadership safety audits are undertaken at operating sites Management Board and wider number of senior development with three targeted programmes across the Group.
During the year we introduced managers represent the definition as set out in the for our Global Leadership Team, who are our one Employee Assistance Programme globally Department for Business, Innovation and Skills 50 most senior leaders.
using the same service provider.
Across the Group, BIS requirements.
The data points set out above Our internal bite-size, live business education we had 18 2015:13 accidents or near misses are in line with those disclosed last year.
programme began in 2016, and we plan to build on reported, and again we had no fatalities.
this in 2017, to inform our people about significant STAFF FORUMS technological initiatives.
We have elected employee forums in the UK and Batam in Indonesia, a Works Council in the Netherlands and an Enterprise Agreement in Perth, Australia.
During 2016, we held quarterly UK Staff Forum meetings with our UK Executive Management Team and UK Representatives and on two of those occasions, representatives from global offices participated to discuss feedback and questions from colleagues across our global offices.
These groups enable two-way open communications between employees and the Executive Management Team, in a trust based environment listening and taking into consideration the views of employees.
In the UK, the Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation on contractual matters, as and when required.
An example of their involvement in 2016 related to consultation about the closure of the UK Defined Benefit pension arrangement to future accrual where the Staff Forum was instrumental in bringing about an improvement in the proposal from the employer for the affected employees.
In other countries, these bodies are constituted according to local requirements.
Inmarsat had the opportunity to engage with over 100 students to introduce Inmarsats maritime solutions, GMDSS service and address current maritime industry issues at the World Maritime University in Sweden.
24 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED During the year we undertook the following occupational health activities: Mental Health First Aid Training arranged across our global offices this was the first time we had organised such activities and plan to run them again in 2017 The annual Wellbeing Week, with a focus on maintaining a healthy eating lifestyle for employees, was again supported by offices in all our key hubs We introduced an occupational health management system to identify where early intervention may be required We updated our lone working procedures which deal with employees in a single manning environment.
Operating procedures are in place at our satellite access stations around the globe We embedded processes in our corporate systems for capturing staff, contractors or interns globally who may have a disability or mobility impairment to be compliant with the Disability Discrimination Act Rupert Pearce at our Global Partner Conference held in Paris, December 2016.
We continue to monitor the following health and safety priorities based on business activities and the potential harm to staff: OUR SATELLITE AND GROUND OUR TECHNOLOGY Musculoskeletal disorders and DSE display NETWORKS We have identified technology as one of our key screen equipment related ill health resources supporting our business model.
While As part of our business of operating a global investment in innovation is clearly important, Working at height satellite network, we operate a number of ground having talented and experienced teams who earth stations, VSAT and telemetry and tracking Manual handling understand how technology and innovation can facilities where there are satellite dishes which work together is essential.
Our teams monitor what Lone working generate radiation.
Access to these sites is happens in the macro environment and see how restricted and there are regular health and safety Specific training and awareness materials are this affects future innovation so we produce checks to ensure that they are in protected areas provided to staff who are affected by these services our customers want to use.
away from access by the general public.
Personnel identified areas of work.
who work at these sites are provided with relevant We introduced an on-line tool for staff to log training as to health and safety issues.
This will allow us to capture data to Our partners are critical to our business success.
monitor trends and implement corrective action SPACE DEBRIS Our definition of partners encompasses all where necessary.
This is particularly useful for As a satellite operator, we have adopted the those we work with manufacturers, suppliers, our field engineers and those working in shipyards highest industry standards in terms of space distributors, service providers and end users.
debris mitigation, including end-of-life graveyard We rely on their excellence to support the In 2016, we participated in several UK local manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when achievement of our business objectives government-led meetings with emergency service they reach the end of their commercial life.
In 2016 and strengthen our service offering.
representatives to identify and assess risks that we fide-orbited the first of our Inmarsat-3 satellites, Our partners can provide local and global expertise may cause an emergency for our business and which was successfully placed into an orbit in-line which supplement our own capabilities.
Areas covered included flooding, with our regulatory commitment.
We operate pandemic flu, utility failures and terrorist attacks.
our satellites in geosynchronous orbit which is We need to ensure that we understand what they approximately 36,000km 22,500 miles above want from us as a partner so that we meet their the earth.
This orbit has significantly less debris expectations for working with us.
At our Global Partner than at low earth orbit which is approximately Conference held in 2016, we responded to comments 700km above the earth and where several MSS received in 2015 about how complex we are to operators have their satellite constellations.
We have now introduced our are also a founding member of the Space Data Streamline Programme where we will be introducing Association SDA.
Along with Intelsat, SES and a simpler, more easily understood contract and a Eutelsat we aim to improve the satellite safety of master price and product list all easily accessible via flight and make operations in space safer and a new partner portal.
The rollout started at the more reliable.
beginning of 2017 and we hope this will be well received by our partners going forwards.
F O R O V E R STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 25 Our Group-led category management approach contractors, suppliers and other business partners, provide emergency communications when one to procurement and supply chain management and as part of our contracting processes, we of the ships ran aground, with the yacht captain is maturing and is delivering significant financial include specific prohibitions against the use of praising it for saving the crews lives.
contribution to the Group both in the year and forced, compulsory or trafficked labour, or anyone In addition to maritime safety services, we also throughout the contract life.
Another key priority held in slavery or servitude, whether adults or promote safety services to the aviation industry for the Global Procurement team this year has children, and we expect that our suppliers will hold for use in the cockpit.
We remain committed to been to better understand our current supplier their own suppliers to the same high standards.
the provision of International Civil Aviation base.
We undertake a robust due diligence process We will do this through specific policies and a Organisation ICAO approved satellite safety for new suppliers through a pre-qualification Supplier Code of Conduct, copies of which are services, and are expanding our safety offerings process: this includes reviewing financial stability, available on our website.
with our  service being compliance with relevant current legislation and trialled successfully and expected to be rolled customer references for similar goods and out on aircraft during 2017.
Additionally, we reduced the number of RESPONSIBILITY suppliers we trade with to allow us to establish In 2016, we continued to support the better relationships and to enable greater leverage telecommunications relief aid organisation, Our website provides considerable information of our global spend.
We will continue to do this Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF totalling about how we connect with organisations, through a well-managed preferred supplier list $220,000 and paid $115,000 to the World individuals and our different partners to extend the which will include group-wide corporate deals Maritime University as part of our support for reach of our services to support those who may where appropriate.
the education of maritime specialists.
These need assistance either for humanitarian needs or two payments are our most significant charitable charitable endeavours.
You can find out more on We will focus further in 2017 on developing our payments.
The total charitable donation amount www.
com and review case studies and procurement function including several process paid in 2016 was approximately $390,000.
updates in our CSR section.
simplification initiatives across the Procure to This amount excludes the free airtime and Pay function including standard contractual Our maritime heritage is a key reminder to us of terminals we offer to multiple charities as we frameworks, low-cost transaction methods such how we have supported mariners and the wider support their endeavours throughout the year.
as using purchasing cards P-card and invoice maritime community for over 37 years and remain reduction initiatives.
This procurement as a Our core charitable support remains focused on focused on doing so in the future.
We remain the service model will help improve efficiency and the work carried out by TSF.
We are very proud only approved provider of satellite communications reduce our overall cost of doing business which to have supported this wonderful charity for over services for the Global Maritime Distress and will make us more effective as a business and easier 15 years.
TSF runs programmes on disaster relief Safety System GMDSS and we continue to for our suppliers to do business with.
and preparedness, training other relief organisations invest in the development of maritime safety and regional and national disaster response services.
Our Inmarsat C SafetyNET service is We will also progressively work to ensure that agencies about the available capabilities for being updated and continues to be used to all our suppliers, new and existing, adhere to our emergency telecommunications.
We have also provide vital updates on reported pirate activity.
standards of ethical behaviour, environmental continued our support for the International The service enables ship masters to access reports awareness, health and safety and other relevant Telecommunications Union ITU.
This was of pirate movements, giving them information working practises.
This includes compliance with enhanced in 2015 with our signing of an MoU with to know which regions to avoid with high pirate current legislative or regulatory requirements, ITU-D in the framework of the Smart Sustainable activity and allowing them to re-route if necessary.
for example the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Development Model SSDM to develop policies The 2017-18 Volvo Round the World Ocean As such we are also committed to ensuring there and action for governments to implement, aimed at Race, of which Inmarsat is the official satellite is transparency in our own business and in our fostering telecommunications and economic growth.
communications provider, relies on Inmarsat safety approach to tackling modern slavery throughout Our CEO, Rupert Pearce serves as Commissioner services for the crews to maintain communication our supply chains, consistent with our disclosure to the Broadband Commission for Digital at all times, wherever they are.
FleetBroadband, obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Set up by the ITU and UNESCO with Inmarsat C and our handheld phone are all We expect the same high standards from all of our the aim of boosting the importance of broadband standard equipment for each of the yachts.
on the international policy agenda and expanding Our IsatPhone was used in the last Race to broadband access to accelerate progress towards national and international development targets, as proposed by the UN.
He also chairs the Broadband Commissions Working Group on Technologies in Space and the Upper Atmosphere that will advise on how these technologies will enable new digital platforms to connect the unconnected.
Scan the image above using Were extremely proud to support Team Rubicon UK, the the Inmarsat App to watch disaster relief and humanitarian charity that utilises the skills and expertise of military veterans, with essential the video.
satcoms for emergency deployments around the world.
2 5 Y E A R S 26 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED EDUCATION We continued with our funding of the Inmarsat Chair of Maritime Education and Training at the World Maritime University.
Our President, Inmarsat Maritime sits on their Board of Governors.
As part of this partnership we conduct a three-day Inmarsat Seminar providing information on the Inmarsat satellite systems, our maritime safety services, what being a GMDSS provider means, how accident investigations are handled and how Inmarsat supports the welfare of seafarers through its services.
We encourage internships with schools and universities to provide students with the opportunity to experience first-hand the engineering and technical aspects of satellite operations.
As part of some UK Space Association funded projects, we are working with the University of Leeds on an eHealth project in Nigeria, and work with a number of universities and research centres on some of our future satellite development projects.
Now into its fourth year, this years award-winning British ESA astronaut Tim Peake meets graduates from Inmarsats Technology Development Programme TDP Inmarsat Summer Strategy Challenge concluded at New Scientist Live.
We work with a London exemplar STEM focused college to make opportunities available to a number of their talented students to complete a challenging In addition, Mr Pearce serves as Chairman of the This year we completed the African innovation programme, addressing critical real world issues, Board of the EMEA Satellite Operators Association pilots reported on in last years Annual Report and such as the digital divide in Africa, the future of aero ESOA.
In this role he leads his fellow CEOs in a the setup of STARHub, which is now hosted at the safety post MH370 and forest governance in south coordinated response to the global challenges Satellite Applications Catapult in the UK.
We are seeking to pioneer a new model and opportunities faced by the commercial is the only research oriented platform dedicated of industry-college engagement.
These include to fostering relationships between the satellite experience that goes beyond the norm is essential positioning the satellite industry to provide 5G applications industry and emerging economy in the route to work and Inmarsats programme is and strategic services, advising the European users.
STARHubs ambition is to leverage satellites targeted to support deserving students, who would Commission and national governments in Europe, in order to deliver sustainable growth in line with the otherwise be disenfranchised.
Additionally, the the Middle East, and Africa on key matters of UN Sustainable Development Goals.
programme with the London-based school forms communications policy, and driving a strategy to In December 2016 we were notified that Inmarsat part of Inmarsats promotion of STEM education grow key space industry assets such as spectrum, had won a UK Space Agency funding competition to encourage young people to be inspired by orbital positions, and market access rights.
publicly announced January 2017, which will fund space-enabled communications and to follow Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support three further emerging markets projects, each of careers in the satellite world.
the use of our services, normally payphones, in which addresses a fundamental global challenge We are also investing in the careers of future rural villages in remote regions of the world, where that Inmarsat is uniquely placed to contribute engineers with a new Technology Development terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent.
each project is scheduled to run for two years.
Programme TDP, designed to provide newly The projects are: Our global offices support local causes at a qualified STEM-based graduates with a platform to corporate and employee level and we encourage Indonesia fisheries: Designing and develop a career in satellite communications.
The staff to get involved in local community initiatives.
implementing innovative solutions for smart graduate scheme confirms Inmarsats commitment Employees across our offices are encouraged to satellite technology to promote inclusive and to supporting and enabling the next generation of support individual charities of their choice, and sustainable fishing practices in Indonesia world-class engineers.
Graduates join Inmarsat for employees in our principal UK office, this is as permanent employees and for two years are Philippines: Reducing the impact of natural encouraged through the UK Governments tax exposed to four different areas of the business disasters by using satellite communications approved contributions scheme.
This exposure helps to Nigeria eHealth: Raise the standard of Nigerian broaden their skill set and knowledge base, which healthcare outcomes in areas with poor they will then apply in their permanent jobs within communications through the application of a technology focused team once the programme satellite connectivity finishes.
It also includes a two-year tailored programme of continuous learning and development at Inmarsat.
In 2016 we recruited the second generation of TDP employees and 2017 will see the third intake of graduates and the graduation of the first group into their permanent roles.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 27 Our website contains more information on the areas Singapore.
The net effect of reducing the number to replace inefficient building lighting with of education we support, including, for example of offices and warehouses will be to reduce our LED technology our continued support for World Space Week, an global greenhouse gas emissions and energy We continue to monitor our energy consumption initiative started by the United Nations in 1999. consumption.
We plan to continue a review of and comply with our social and legal responsibilities our office location strategy in 2017. in terms of carbon emissions.
Please see our ENVIRONMENT Our mission is to adopt and support the following summary of carbon emissions within the Report principles: of the Directors on page 62.
Energy efficiency is In 2016 Inmarsat achieved a CDP formerly known one of the key considerations when replacing as the Carbon Disclosure Project score of B, provide first-class energy and environmental obsolete and inefficient machinery.
demonstrating that we are managing our management practices environmental impact as well as climate change In 2016, we implemented a number of energycomply with all relevant global environmental related business risks and opportunities.
saving initiatives to support our compliance legislation and regulatory controls efforts.
We continue to review new technologies Although the direct activities of the Group are identify significant environmental and social and control building operational strategies and judged to have a low environmental impact, we impacts and establish objectives and targets our waste management and recycling schemes.
understand that, unless urgent action is taken for improvement Video conferencing and other collaboration tools to limit global temperatures to 2C above allowing visual connectivity are being used to pre-industrial levels, climate change presents in our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% reduce the dependency on air transport and are significant and systemic risks.
By 2018, Inmarsat of generated waste and to constantly review the a popular means of communication with staff intends to have set a science-based emission opportunity to use recycled products working in different locations and across different reduction target in line with the UKs commitment to actively encourage the conservation of time zones.
under the UN Paris Agreement thereby energy, water and natural resources through contributing to the global effort to prevent We have agreed to refurbish our HQ office in the increased efficiency and introduction of the worst consequences of climate change.
London and the enabling and installation works new and modern technology will focus on reducing energy consumption for the We have approximately 1,900 staff who work in to encourage all employees to be proactive in remaining 12 years of the lease.
over 50 locations around the world.
Of those their daily activities by separating their waste offices, warehouses and earth stations, over into dry and wet waste receptacles COMMERCIAL WASTE 80% of our staff operate from eight locations.
ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled In the London office and at our major sites, The business continues to review its location we continue a progressive approach to waste strategy with an objective to reduce the number switching off lights, computers, phone chargers management.
Recycling is managed locally in of small locations whilst consolidating activities and any other electrical items when not in use the larger sites with the separation of plastics, into the larger sites.
The consolidation of our reducing business travel and using more paper and non-recyclable materials.
In the Global Logistics operations was completed in site-based technology such as video and head office in London, which is the single largest 2016.
This was a two-year programme where audio conferencing and office for the Group, 100% of waste is diverted 10 warehouses were consolidated into three from landfill and this policy has been in place since warehouse hubs in Rotterdam, Houston and 2009.
We separate our waste into four streams: recyclable, non-recyclable, glass and confidential waste.
Confidential waste is shredded and pulped to be reused in paper products.
In 2016 we reduced total waste from the London head office by 10%, and 36% of this waste was recycled compared to 34% in 2015.
We continue to work with our London office caterers to reduce Inmarsats impact on the environment.
Cooking oils are now collected and converted to sustainable biofuels.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 55, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board ALISON HORROCKS Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Company Secretary 8 March 2017 Inmarsat Satellite Access Station, Fucino, Italy.
