STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 65 LEADERSHIP HOW THE BOARD OPERATES THE BOARD To ensure effective corporate governance, your Board has structured its OVERALL SUMMARY STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE governance framework as set out below.
The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its authority.
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied The permanent Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration, with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code save as noted below.
Nominations and Telecoms Regulatory Committees.
Each Committee has Terms of Reference under which authority is delegated by the Board.
Copies During 2016, Andrew Sukawaty was Chairman.
He did not meet the can be found on our website at www.
Reports of the Committees independence criteria on appointment as he had previously been an Executive can be found on pages 70 to 102.
Although the Code recommends that the Chairman is independent on appointment, the Board unanimously believes that his wide experience means that he remains extremely well qualified to lead the Company as its Chairman and has the skills and experience to ensure that the Board continues to function effectively.
Our Senior Independent Director, Dr Abe Peled, was appointed to this position in November 2015 and plays a key role within the Company on any matters which may be raised of a governance nature.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found at www.
BOARD COMMITTEES CHAIRMAN: ANDREW SUKAWATY Key objectives: Leadership, operation and governance of the Board Setting the agenda for the Board INMARSAT PLC BOARD 11 Directors: two Executive Directors, the Chairman and eight Independent Non-Executive Directors Key objectives: Responsible for the overall conduct of the business: setting strategy AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS TELECOMS CHIEF COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE REGULATORY EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Rupert Pearce Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Robert Ruijter Simon Bax Dr Abe Peled Andrew Sukawaty Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Management of Oversight and review of Oversight and review of Oversight and review Oversight of key the business financial and operational remuneration, bonus and of Board and senior regulatory challenges Implementation of risk management, audit share plan issues management strategy and policy and internal control appointments and issues succession planning Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Pages 74 to 77 Pages 79 to 102 Pages 70 to 72 Page 73 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Chairman: Rupert Pearce Key objectives: To focus on strategy, financial performance, succession planning, business growth, organisational development and adherence to Group-wide policies 66 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED ROLE OF THE BOARD Ensuring appropriate financial and operational management: Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Inmarsat Groups Received and discussed reports from the CEO on performance the Group business.
It is the primary decision-making body for all material of the Groups operations matters affecting the Group.
It provides leadership and guidance, and sets Received and discussed regular reports on the Groups financial our strategic direction.
performance Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for: Approved financial announcements for publication the performance and proper conduct of the business Discussed the annual budget and long range business plan being responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having regard Approved dividend policy, recommendations and payments as for the interests of all stakeholders and appropriate, including the introduction of a scrip dividend scheme being responsible for ensuring the effectiveness and reporting on our Reviewed reports from the Companys corporate brokers system of corporate governance Implementing governance and ethics and monitoring risk: Responsibility for implementing strategy within the Groups operations and for day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive Assessed the risks faced by the Group and received updates on internal Officer who, as part of the Executive Management Board, cascades this controls responsibility through the Group.
The CEO is empowered by the Board to Reviewed regular reports on legal and compliance matters from the handle all business activities up to a designated level of authorisation and to Company Secretary report to the Board for guidance, support and approval on other matters which require Board input.
A list of the members of the Executive Management Board Received reports from the Board Committee Chairmen is provided on page 6.
Received a report and presentation from the external evaluator for the A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision or consideration 2015 Board evaluation by the Board as a whole has been agreed by the Directors.
This schedule covers Reviewed the Directors Conflicts of Interest procedures areas such as: Received updates and reviewed procedures in connection with the the Groups business strategy and long-term plans implementation of the Market Abuse Regulations major capital projects Workplace reviews: investments and Received a health and safety report covering activity across the Group acquisitions and divestments Received regular updates from the CEO about reorganisation and The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed restructuring activity taking place formally at Board meetings and adapted regularly to ensure all matters Received updates on senior management succession planning from the CEO reserved for the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
There is an established procedure for the review of the agenda between the Chairman, Received updates on other HR matters Executive Directors and Company Secretary in advance of each Board Special business: meeting.
At each Board meeting there is a detailed report on current trading from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and detailed papers are Received multiple presentations on the aviation business with a specific provided on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or focus on in-flight passenger connectivity give approval.
Where appropriate, specific responsibilities are delegated to Reviewed and approved the Groups capital funding for a new convertible Board Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
bond and high yield bond In 2016 we focused our attention on the following key areas: Received several updates on the Companys cyber security planning and Strategy review and development: future plans Attended a Group strategy day, with members of the Management Board and other senior executives, to consider key strategic priorities and challenges faced across the business Approved the Group strategy Received regular strategy and business development reports from the CEO, Chief Strategy Officer and other senior management as part of regular meetings Reviewed strategy plans and received reports on the operational performance for the Groups key business areas Received reports on technology and innovation and related industry developments Reviewed Group risk as part of the discussion on strategy STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 67 Independent Non-Executive Directors KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors ensures that they can provide a strong independent element on the Board, The Chairman Andrew Sukawaty debate, and constructively challenge management both in relation to the The role of the Chairman is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
development of strategy and review of the Groups operational and He is responsible for: financial performance.
effective leadership, operation and governance of the Board To determine their independence, all Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Nominations Committee annually against any circumstances relevant ensuring the effectiveness of the Board to their current or ongoing independence as set out in the Code and setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions and recommendations are made to the Board.
Following such review, the Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and free of any ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information circumstances that could materially interfere with their ability to provide a strong and valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations, or which could The Chief Executive Officer Rupert Pearce interfere with the individual Directors ability to also act in the best interests The role of the Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Nominations Committee additionally considers the He is responsible for: independence carefully once a Non-Executive Director has served for nine years or more to assess whether their contribution to the Board remains the day-to-day managing of Inmarsats operations and its valuable and valid to support the Companys strategic objectives.
financial results recommending the strategic objectives for the Inmarsat Group, Executive Management Board for debate, challenge and approval by the Board The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Management Board which now meets responsibility for ensuring we meet the milestones for our key on a monthly basis for generally 1.5 2 days.
As part of its remit, this team programmes with a priority to target revenue growth and deliver focuses on the Groups strategy, financial reviews and long range business enhanced returns to shareholders and planning, the competitive landscape, operational updates from all areas of the business, risk reviews, learning and development and organisational chairing the Executive Management Board development.
The Executive Management Board includes the Executive Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for environmental and social governance, Directors, the Business Unit Presidents and the key functional heads.
community investment, and other corporate social responsibility matters, The names of the Executive Management team are shown on page 6. as well as responsibility for Health and Safety.
GOVERNANCE AND CONDUCT OF BOARD MEETINGS The Senior Independent Director Dr Abe Peled Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: During 2016, the Board met eight times, with one of those meetings being held over two days in Washington DC and its two-day strategy Board meeting acting as a sounding board for the Chairman taking place at our existing and new offices in lesund, Norway.
These meetings serving as an intermediary for the other Directors in local offices provide the Board with exposure to our staff and business operations outside the London headquarters.
reviewing the Chairmans performance with the Non-Executive Directors Key management are invited to attend all Board meetings to present on being available to discuss issues or concerns from our shareholders specific business issues which will include an operations update for each of the where they have been unable to resolve them through existing channels Business Units and central services divisions, covering commercial, technology for investor communications and and operational matters.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take convening regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors place as and when necessary.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer provide reports to the Board and several senior The Company Secretary Alison Horrocks executives, by invitation, present updates on strategy and focus on specific parts of the Groups operations.
This way the Board is given exposure to the The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its next layer of management at the Executive Board level and often to their direct Committees and in doing so she: reports.
This is helpful to the Board as it supplements the discussions it has assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely regarding planning for management succession.
Strategy sessions are access to all relevant information attended by several senior executives who present on specific agenda items.
Elements of the business strategy are reviewed regularly at Board meetings assists the Chairman by organising induction and training programmes throughout the year ensuring that all Directors are kept up to date with assists the Chairman with the annual Board evaluation procedure discussions and activities.
All Committee Chairmen report verbally on the proceedings of their Committees at the next Board meeting.
Meeting is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are proceedings and any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters and are minuted by the Company Secretary.
administers the procedure under which Directors can, where appropriate, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense no requests for external professional advice were received during the year 68 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, Number of scheduled Board meetings held and meeting attendance any comments which he or she may have arising out of the papers to be in 2016 considered at the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Company Secretary who would then report to the Board or Committee thereon.
Percentage Meetings attendance The Senior Independent Director will convene meetings with the NonExecutive Directors at least annually and on an ad-hoc basis as required to Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 8 8 100% discuss Board balance, monitor the powers of individual Executive Directors Rupert Pearce 8 8 100% and raise any issues between themselves as appropriate.
The Chairman will attend these meetings but will not be in attendance where there is discussion Tony Bates 8 8 100% about his own performance.
Simon Bax 8 8 100% Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 100% INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS Stephen Davidson 8 8 100% Directors and Officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors and Officers to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of Kathleen Flaherty 8 8 100% the Company.
In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the extent General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 8 8 100% permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors, the Company Secretary and certain employees who serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Groups Dr Abe Peled 8 8 100% request have been granted indemnities from the Company in respect of Janice Obuchowski 8 8 100% liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted Robert Ruijter 8 8 100% dishonestly or fraudulently.
No amount has been paid under any of these Dr Hamadoun Tour 8 8 100% indemnities during the year.
1 Philippa McCrostie 3 3 100% CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 1 Appointed on 1 September 2016 The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of interest and is aware of any potential conflict through an annual review of the other RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS commitments of its Directors.
We are satisfied these commitments do not conflict with their duties as Directors of Inmarsat.
During the year, where there An overview of the Groups framework for identifying and managing risk, both at were agenda items being raised for discussion which could have the perception an operational and strategic level, is set out on pages 50 to 55 in the Strategic of a conflict of interest for the individual Director, these were discussed at the Report.
The Board has responsibility for managing risk and although the Audit relevant Board meeting and agreed in each case there were no conflicts of Committee has responsibility for the risk management process the Board does interest identified.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions to not delegate overall responsibility for risk to either the Audit Committee or allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest so that a Director management.
There has been additional work undertaken in 2016 on risk is not in breach of his her duty under company law.
As noted above, and processes and assessment and updates were noted in the changing content happens in practice, should a Director become aware that they have an and presentation information presented to the Audit Committee and Board.
interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or proposed transaction with the The Board have annual updates on the Companys policies for compliance Company, they are required to notify this to the Company Secretary.
Directors with the UK Bribery Act, and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA have a continuing duty to notify any changes to their conflicts of interest and requirements and health and safety.
As part of our commitment to preventing to their external Board commitments to the Company Secretary and any bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever changes are noted in the conflicts register.
and in whatever form it may be encountered, we have a formal Boardapproved anti-corruption policy and a summary of the anti-bribery policy is BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE included on our website.
We have appropriate procedures in place to ensure The attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings held in 2016 is shown in compliance with current legislation.
An independently managed, confidential the next table.
Pip McCrostie joined the Board in September 2016.
Attendance whistleblowing helpline email and telephone is available to employees to use.
at Committee meetings is shown in the relevant Committee reports.
There was no use of it during 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 69 The Company recognises the importance of electronic information, systems the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
All the risk and network security cyber security and this area was one of keen interest registers are reviewed by senior management and provided quarterly to the and debate at Board meetings during the year.
We are increasingly required Board and to the Audit Committee.
Details of the risk process and key risks to be compliant with, or align to, various legal, contractual and regulatory are shown on pages 50 to 55 in the Strategic Report.
standards and codes of practice relative to information security governance Management structure: there is a clearly defined organisational structure and the preservation of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation of customer or internal data and services.
This is part of a broader programme authority based on job responsibilities and experience.
Within the business, supported by a dedicated cyber security team whose primary role is to senior management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion safeguard the Company to meet its legal and regulatory obligations, maintain of relevant business issues.
A process of self-certification is used where business continuity and limit damage to business interests by preventing and Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls reducing the occurrence of security incidents and their impact upon business in operation to mitigate risk in key process areas.
The Presidents of the operations.
In recognition of this importance, we have committed to seek Business Units also confirm every quarter that they are not aware of any certification to the ISO27001 standard which requires us to have an breach of key policies including our sensitive information policy which information management security procedure in place and also increased relates to protection of partner data and any anti-bribery activities.
our investments on cyber during 2016 in terms of resources and on tools.
Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide relevant, Internal controls reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to management and the Board.
Analysis is undertaken of differences between The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and maintaining actual results and the annual budget on a monthly basis.
Annual plans, the Groups system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from forecasts, performance targets and long range business plans allow management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the management to monitor the key business and financial activities, and the business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than progress towards achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only approved by the Board, as is the long range business plan.
The Group reports reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
half-yearly based on a standardised reporting process, and in addition, also The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports reports on a quarterly basis.
received from management, along with those from both internal and external auditors.
Management continues to focus on how internal control and risk Information systems: information systems are developed to support the management can be further embedded into the operations of the business Groups long-term objectives and are managed by professionally staffed and to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and the teams.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place covering all Boards attention.
significant areas of the business.
The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with responsibility for Contractual commitments: there are clearly defined policies and reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
These include financial and related information and other procedures necessary to enable detailed requirements that must be completed prior to submitting proposals the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to provide and or tenders for work, both in respect of the commercial, control and risk their certifications in relation to publicly disclosed information.
The Disclosure management aspects of the obligations being entered into.
Business plan Committee comprises the Chairman, both Executive Directors, Company approval and procurement process procedures also strengthen the review of Secretary and other senior executives.
contractual commitments before any such commitment is agreed to.
The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review of the Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular reports from effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended the internal and external auditors and assures itself that the internal control 31 December 2016 and for the period up to the date of approval of the environment of the Group is operating effectively.
There are formal policies consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report.
The review and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance accounting records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
Significant capital controls and risk management systems.
The Board confirms that the actions projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
There are it considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant formal procedures by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about failings or weaknesses identified from its review of the system of internal possible improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and matters often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
There is a developing plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the worldwide anonymous whistleblowing programme in place and monthly circumstances.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of reports are issued by the external provider to the Company Secretary material weaknesses in the part of the internal control system that relates and Head of Internal Audit.
No issues were reported in the year.
Where there to financial reporting.
are any reports made, arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action with the results The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, which have been in being reported to the Audit Committee.
place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this Report, include: Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is in place DIRECTORS REMUNERATION which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and how this is Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors remuneration are measured across identified macro and business risks.
As required by contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 102. the policy, management operates a risk management process to identify, evaluate and report significant risks within the business and to report to the Board on how those risks are being managed and mitigated.
Risks are highlighted through a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by Risk Committees across the Group, which identify the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and 70 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 EFFECTIVENESS Independent Non-Executive Directors make up a majority of members of REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE the Committee.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when necessary, generally at least twice a year.
Dr Abe Peled became Chairman in November 2015.
Other members of the Committee are Andrew Sukawaty, Stephen Davidson up to his retirement in January 2017 and Dr Hamadoun Tour.
During 2016 the Committee met twice.
The Committee has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity including gender and ensuring a broad representation of skills across the Board.
In doing this, the Committee will give full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Company.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Boards Committees and will review Dr Abe Peled and make recommendations in relation to the structure, size and composition Chairman, of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and Nominations Committee experience, and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including the tenure of each Director.
2016 ACTIVITIES INCLUDED: The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to the Board We supported the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director who concerning the annual reappointment by shareholders of any Non-Executive joined the Board in September 2016 Director as he or she reaches their sixth year of reappointment and separately with a view to assessing their continuing independence thereafter, particularly We reviewed the composition of the Board and discussed the retirement when Directors are seeking to be reappointed after serving nine years.
The of two longer-serving Directors and agreed that our other Directors Committee also has responsibility for approving any changes to Executive continued to demonstrate the right qualities of independence and Directors including senior management appointments.
All currently appointed judgement Directors will retire at the 2017 AGM and offer themselves for reappointment, We reviewed the senior management succession plan, and considered or offer themselves for appointment as appropriate.
As noted earlier in the the talent available below the Executive Management Board level Corporate Governance Report, the Committee has agreed that it was appropriate that although Sir Bryan Carsberg, who is the remaining Director MEMBERS IN 2016 appointed at the IPO in 2005, has exceeded his original term of office, he remains independent in his contribution, and should be invited to serve for a longer period and therefore he is considered independent.
This independence Scheduled meetings attended is observed at Board meetings in the way Sir Bryan constructively challenges Dr Abe Peled Chairman management and approaches meetings fully briefed and is fully engaged in the discussion.
Sir Bryans length of service, resulting experience and knowledge of Stephen Davidson the Company is of great benefit to the Board.
The subject of his independence Andrew Sukawaty will be kept under review.
Dr Hamadoun Tour COMPOSITION Our Board comprises Directors drawn from a wide range of professional AREA OF FOCUS FOR 2016 backgrounds.
All our Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards An area of focus for the Committee has been deliberations.
The Non-Executive Directors we appointed in 2015 and more recently in 2016 have all contributed very effectively to Board discussions and Non-Executive Director succession planning.
have demonstrated their increasing knowledge of how the Company operates We purposefully increased the size of the Board and its business.
We took the decision to appoint these additional Directors while retaining the expertise of existing Directors thus enabling us to have an starting in 2014 to allow time for new Directors to orderly retirement process of longer-serving Board Directors over the coming come up to speed on our business activities and years.
In 2015 we appointed Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Tour and in strategy before longer-serving Directors retired.
2016 we appointed Philippa Pip McCrostie.
Stephen Davidson and Kathleen Flaherty both retired from the Board in January and March 2017 respectively.
We have found this has worked very well and the As at 6 March 2017, the composition of the Board is two Executive Directors, new Directors, including the most recent addition eight Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman.
With the in September 2016, have brought an additional exception of Pip McCrostie, all Directors served throughout the year.
The names of the Directors on our Board, their relevant skills and experience skill-set and breadth of experience to Board are set out in their biographical details and can be found on pages 58 to 60. discussions.
We believe we are now into a more The composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly normal retirement and appointment cycle for reviewed and evaluated so as to reflect the balance of skills, knowledge, Non-Executive Directors.
diversity of which gender is one component, experience and the ability of Directors to provide sufficient time to fulfil their Board responsibilities.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 71 development needs, each Director is expected to ask about any specific SUCCESSION PLANNING training needs.
They also take steps to ensure they are adequately informed Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and about the Company and their responsibilities as a Director and attend external with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
This process is led briefings and receive information updates.
The Board is confident that its by the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions experience of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
required of a Director of a listed company.
In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use a BOARD EVALUATION combination of external recruitment consultants and personal referrals.
The Non-Executive Director who was appointed in 2016 was through a In 2015 the Company undertook an external evaluation, facilitated by Duncan personal recommendation made to a Director.
Reed of Condign Board Consulting.
This was the second time Mr Reed had undertaken the external evaluation.
Neither Mr Reed nor Condign Board In considering the skills required for the new Non-Executive Director, there Consulting have any other commercial relationships with Inmarsat.
was focus on seeking an individual who had broad corporate, strategic and M&A knowledge as we felt that this would be additive to the current experience We shared in last years Annual Report the summary of findings and highlighted of the Board and provide a complementary overlay to other Board members potential areas for future review.
Mrs McCrosties experience in leading the Transaction Advisory The evaluation exercise also reviewed the work of the Committees and their Services for EY and her experience in corporate finance and tax met the own effectiveness.
Potential areas for future review were noted as follows: requirements for the role.
We are delighted that Pip decided to join Inmarsat as this was her first non-executive public company position.
As part of the Improving the use of the Boards time which may involve splitting more recruitment process, Pip met several people including the Chairman of the meetings over two days we have meetings three times a year where the Board, the CEO, CFO and the Company Secretary and spoke with the meetings are split over two days to improve the effectiveness and use of Companys auditors.
Other members of the Board were also given the the Boards time opportunity to meet her.
Ensuring that presentations to the Board include a comprehensive The Committee, when reviewing succession planning, considers diversity executive summary we have made some progress on this and further in its broadest sense and takes this into account in its recommendations to focus is required as this has also been highlighted as something for action the Board.
It takes into account the challenges and opportunities facing the from the 2016 Board Evaluation exercise Company: diversity, including gender: and what skills and expertise are needed Request for the risk register to be focused on key risks faced by the Company on the Board and from senior management in the future.
Gender is one and accountability for mitigating actions the risk review process has been element of the considerations made in appointing senior management updated and refreshed with a focus on key risks and Board members and as part of general recruitment practices across the Group.
The Committee has not set quotas for the percentage of women Ensuring that the Board receives early updates on proposals from in the workforce but is supportive of the need generally to encourage diversity management on significant transactional issues to receive early support when employees and Directors Executive and Non-Executive are recruited.
this is happening with key strategic discussions which are being considered The Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in the course as they are brought to the Board at inception for review and discussion of its work and receives updated management succession plans which look A review at each meeting of upcoming items for the subsequent meetings at succession planning for the Executive Management Board and identifies this is now an agenda item in its own right reviewed regularly during the year the next layer of management below them who are identified as those with potential for promotion to senior management positions.
This document The 2016 Board evaluation was undertaken by the Company Secretary on is updated at least annually to reflect changes in senior management.
This took the form of a questionnaire to all Directors and a meeting between the Company Secretary and each of the Directors.
INDUCTION AND ONGOING PROFESSIONAL The main outputs from the exercise confirmed that the new Non-Executive DEVELOPMENT Directors had continued to perform well and had gained much more knowledge To ensure that each Director receives appropriate support on joining about the business and could therefore contribute more effectively to the the Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction strategy discussions and business issues.
There continued to be full support programme organised through the Company Secretary, including the for the Chairman and how he managed the Board, seeking to ensure that all provision of background material on the Company and briefings with each Directors contributed to the discussion and managed the discussion effectively.
of the Executive Management Board.
These meetings will ensure that the The items coming out as areas for further development related to using on-boarding process for a new Director provides a view of each area of the executive summaries for papers in order to focus the discussion at the strategic business with the opportunity for further discussion as appropriate.
Each level and ensure the agenda is structured to allow the right level of discussion Directors individual experience and background is taken into account in of topics.
developing a programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
The induction programme was reviewed and updated in 2016 for Mrs McCrostie and took place over a number of days to allow sufficient time for each meeting.
For professional ongoing development, the Board receives presentations relevant to the Companys business and updates on any changes in legislation which may affect the Companys operations.
The Company Secretary supplies all Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice.
For example the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations were briefed to the Board.
As part of their annual performance evaluation, Directors are given the opportunity to discuss training and development needs.
Whilst the Chairman takes ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Directors training and 72 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
All such appointments require the prior approval of the Board and the number of public company appointments is generally limited to two.
Details of external appointments for the CEO can be found in his biography on page 58.
There were no fees paid to the CEO for these duties.
APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year.
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation of the Board, offer themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
The reappointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing commitment to Board activities and satisfactory performance.
All Directors will stand for reappointment annually in accordance with the provision of the Code.
The Nominations Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for reappointment at the 2017 AGM continue to benefit the Board and the Company should support their reappointment.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed initially for three years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
As already set out earlier in this Report on page 70, one of our Non-Executive Directors, Sir Bryan Carsberg is being supported by the Board for reappointment as an independent Non-Executive Director even though he will have served for longer than nine years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 73 ACCOUNTABILITY The Telecoms Regulatory Committee was created in May 2015, specifically REPORT OF THE TELECOMS to ensure there was focus from the Board on this key area which affected all parts of the Companys business operations both now and in the future.
REGULATORY COMMITTEE The Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors and meets as and when necessary, generally twice a year.
The Telecoms Regulatory Committee is authorised by the Board to: review key regulatory challenges facing the business of the Company and the strategy and action plans proposed to meet such challenges discuss the Companys strategy for acquisition of spectrum and frequency rights facilitate high level engagement with governments, regulatory bodies Andrew Sukawaty Chairman, Telecoms and international organisations as identified by the Company Regulatory Committee review upcoming key regulatory meetings, the proposed agendas and events and the Companys plans to cover such events 2016 ACTIVITIES INCLUDED: support the Company in various countries to secure authorisations for We reviewed the regulations being proposed in key countries in which market access as identified by the Company we operate obtain the advice and assistance of any of the Companys executives having We reviewed the lessons learned from the last World Radio Conference particular expertise in such matters and We provided overview guidance on developing regulatory activities to review, and advise on, the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Companys regulatory policy and strategy as presented by the MEMBERS IN 2016 Companys executives and provide guidance on proactive measures proposed by the Company to maintain its leading position and competitiveness in the industry Scheduled meetings attended A key focus for the Company during 2016 was a review of performance Andrew Sukawaty Chairman and outcome from the Companys participation at the 2015 World Radio Sir Bryan Carsberg Conference, and looking forward to considering the planning requirements for the next such meeting.
The Committee also discussed the regulatory Janice Obuchowski situation regarding the S-band license and the discussions taking place Dr Hamadoun Tour with the regulators about this new spectrum and how it would be used by the Company.
The inputs of the Committee members to provide guidance and share views with the management team who are representing the AREA OF FOCUS FOR 2016 Company on regulatory matters is extremely valuable.
A key focus for the Committee during 2016 was to contribute oversight and guidance for the Companys activities across the various working groups with which it is involved.
The Committee was also presented with updates from senior regulatory experts about upcoming legislation and activities which could have an impact on the Companys regulatory roadmap.
74 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED All members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE and the majority have significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is confident that the collective experience of the Audit Committee members enables them, as a group, to act as an effective Committee.
The table to the left shows who makes up the Audit Committee and their attendance at meetings during 2016.
Robert Ruijter became Chairman in November 2015.
All members, apart from Dr Obuchowski, are considered financial experts.
Mrs McCrostie joined the Board in September 2016 and became a member of the Committee from that date.
Mr Davidson stepped down from the Committee in January 2017 when he retired from the Board.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Robert Ruijter Internal Audit.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte audit engagement partner is Chairman, Audit Committee present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with the internal and external auditors and at the end of each Audit 2016 ACTIVITIES INCLUDED: Committee meeting there is a short meeting of just the Committee, Company We ensured the smooth running of the Committee following a change in Chairman and auditors which includes the internal auditor several times during Chairmanship in November 2015 the year for an open discussion about the audit process and relationship with management.
The Committee Chairman and Mr Davidson were part of a We completed the retender process for the audit firm and reappointed sub-committee of the Board charged with undertaking the review of the capital Deloitte LLP structuring and the decision to offer a new convertible bond and a new high The risk management process improved during the year incorporating yield bond.
The Committee Chairman was also actively involved as part of the feedback from the Committee retender process for the auditor and in the decision making to reappoint Deloitte.
The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for: MEMBERS IN 2016 monitoring the financial reporting process Scheduled meetings attended the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and risk management Robert Ruijter Chairman the integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of significant Sir Bryan Carsberg issues and judgements, policies, and disclosures Stephen Davidson keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost Janice Obuchowski effectiveness 1 Philippa McCrostie consideration of managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendations 1 Mrs McCrostie joined in September 2016 being assured of the independence and objectivity of the internal and AREA OF FOCUS FOR 2016 external auditor and in 2017 there will be particular focus on the new IFRS 15 and 16 accounting The Committee had requested changes to the standards and their implementation risk management process in 2016 to focus on The Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes principal risks and their mitigation which was the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders reflected in updated and more effective principal to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and risk disclosure documents being available for strategy.
The financial results include those from Inmarsat Government Inc. review.
The Committee felt that based on all the a proxy company based in the US which is managed under a Proxy arrangement as required by the US Government to ensure it is insulated from foreign assessments and sensitivity analysis made, the ownership, control or influence.
This company was acquired in 2010 and has viability statement could be supported for Board been operating under the Proxy arrangement since that time.
The Committee also supported the The Committees terms of reference have been updated to reflect best retender process for the audit firm and confirmed practice, and can be found on our website.
Details about the Committees assessment are shown at the end of this Report.
the reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 75 There is a forward agenda used for the years activities which focus on: reviewing key accounting judgements relating to specific transactions as well as changes to any accounting policies affecting the Groups financial review of the annual financial statements and the results of the annual position and external audit and review of the external auditors quarterly and interim review work and relevant quarterly and interim financial reporting and the review of the accounting impact of the refinancing undertaken in September external audit plan 2016 and the regular monitoring of the global centralisation of the Groups transactional banking with J. P. Morgan review of risk management reports Reviews by the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group review of the preparation of the viability statement for use in the 2016 operations.
Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group companies and business Preliminary Statement and Annual Report and operations.
One of our subsidiary companies, Inmarsat Group Ltd, is required review of internal audit plans and findings and recommendations to produce quarterly financial statements, as required by its loan agreements, which are reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The quarterly review of the The Audit Committee ensures that the external audit process and audit quality risk reports and the process adopted to manage risk is a key area of focus for are effective.
It does this by: the Committee.
monitoring the engagement between the Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee meetings generally take place just prior to a Board meeting and the lead audit engagement partner which will generally be through to maximise effectiveness and time planning efficiency of those attending.
face-to-face meetings The Committees Chairman reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda monitoring the reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to audit engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team the Board in the conduct of their work.
All members of the Board have access to Audit Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to monitoring the quality of the management responses to audit queries the Chairman, attend the meetings.
monitoring meetings held by the CEO and the Chairman with the lead The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee the role audit engagement partner which are reported to the Audit Chairman of which is detailed on page 69, reported on matters that affected the quality and Committee and timely disclosure of financial and other material information to the Board.
monitoring a review of independence and objectivity of the audit firm This enabled the Audit Committee to review and clarify the completeness of and also the quality of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to financial reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
shareholders and SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS seeking feedback from members of the finance team, the Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee is considering the During 2016, the Audit Committee considered the significant accounting use of a formal auditor assessment tool for future review of audit effectiveness matters described below.
In addressing these issues the Committee considered the appropriateness of managements accounting estimates and key During the reporting year to 31 December 2016, the activities of the Audit judgements, outlined in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Committee were: The Committee discussed these with the external auditor during the year to ensure a smooth running of the Audit Committee following the transition and, where appropriate, details of how they have been addressed are provided of Committee chairmanship in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 105 to 111. for the Committee Chairman to be involved in the discussion, planning REVENUE RECOGNITION and decision for a retender of the audit firm in accordance with rotation requirements for external auditors as Deloitte has been Auditor to the The timing of revenue recognition is a key area of judgement, especially in Company for 10 years with updates reported to the Committee the telecommunications industry.
The Groups accounting policy on revenue recognition remains unchanged from the prior year, refer to note 2 for more approving the appointment of a new reporting partner following the details.
The Groups internal audit team have kept significant revenue systems, five-year rotation period of the previous partner processes and recognition as a focus area during the year and the external confirming to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, auditor performed detailed audit procedures on revenue recognition, with the balanced and understandable findings of both being reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee have therefore concluded that the Groups revenue recognition policies review and endorsement, prior to submission to the Board, of half-year continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
and full-year financial statements, interim management statements and results announcements An in-depth review of revenue accounting is currently being undertaken as part of the IFRS 15 project.
As part of this, management is outlining the Groups review and approval of internal audit reports, and findings and approach to revenue recognition, particularly for more complex transactions recommendations arising from the reports in the Aviation business unit.
Further details of the status of the IFRS 15 project review and approval of risk management updates and the annual risk are outlined in note 1. management process agreement of external and internal annual audit plans receiving updates on management responses to audit recommendations monitor changes in the approach to assessing the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles for possible impairment and review the conclusions of the assessment 76 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGADO NETWORKS verbal and written reports from the external auditor on these matters.
Following COOPERATION AGREEMENT these procedures, the Audit Committee deemed the income tax assets and liabilities balances for the year, as well as the Groups disclosure in respect of The Audit Committee continues to review the accounting treatment for the income taxes and related liabilities, to be appropriate.
recognition of revenue and costs in respect of each phase of the Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared Cooperation Agreement.
CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND ASSOCIATED In March 2016, Ligado Networks agreed to take the 30MHz option the 30MHz BORROWING COSTS Plan under the Cooperation Agreement between the companies.
In exchange Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other for the deferral of some payments from Ligado to Inmarsat, the parties agreed associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
In addition, borrowing costs to delay the transition to the 30MHz Plan, with Ligado providing Inmarsat attributable to qualifying space segment assets are added to the cost of those enhanced spectrum usage rights for its satellite operations for a minimum assets.
Given the nature of the Groups business, significant capital expenditure period of two years.
With this in mind, Ligado made quarterly payments to is incurred on space segment assets.
The key judgements involved in the Inmarsat of $108m during the course of 2016 and will make aggregate capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowings costs are: payments of approximately $111m and $118m in respect of 2017 and 2018 respectively, payable in quarterly instalments.
This revenue is recognised on whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRS have been met an accruals basis.
Over the three-year period, up to approximately $35m of allocation of an appropriate asset class and associated useful economic additional contracted payments will be deferred.
life in accordance with Group policies Deferred income in respect of Phase 1 from Ligado continues to be carried whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result on the balance sheet.
Although the cash has been received, the timing of the capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease and recognition of this deferred income, together with any related future costs and taxes, is dependent upon a number of factors that continue to be uncertain.
whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation The impact of the foregoing on the deferred revenue balance of $197.8m of costs should cease and depreciation should commence at 31 December 2016 carried by Inmarsat in respect of the costs of The external auditor examined the capitalisation of development costs in implementation of this agreement is still to be determined.
During 2016, the year, particularly in relation to the Global Xpress and S-band satellite Inmarsat recognised $11.0m of deferred income as revenue to reflect the programmes and reported its findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit impact of the revenue deferral arising under the revised transition agreement.
Committee is satisfied that space segment assets and associated borrowing The Audit Committee has deemed the current accounting treatment of all costs have been capitalised correctly in the year.
phases of the Cooperation Agreement appropriate.
VIABILITY STATEMENT REFINANCING The Audit Committee received a detailed paper from management setting out In September three funding transactions were completed.
These transactions both the Directors obligation to include a viability statement in the Annual reduce funding risk for the Company by both materially extending the maturity Report and a detailed assessment of the Groups viability.
The Committee profile of the current capital structure and by bringing in substantial new funds, endorsed the selection of a three-year time horizon as a basis for the all at fixed interest rates.
statement and reviewed the detailed viability assessment including the assumptions that had been made in conducting the assessment.
Further $391m convertible bond due for repayment in 2017 was redeemed detail on the assessment of viability and the viability statement are set out on including accrued interest of $1.6m page 55.
$650m convertible bond due for repayment in 2023 was issued INTERNAL AUDIT $400m high yield bond due for repayment in 2024 was issued Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of These three transactions total $659m which, after transactions costs of $14m, the Internal Audit Department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
The Internal Auditor presents reports at each meeting covering updates on A loss of $33m has been recognised on the redemption of the old convertible Internal Audit activities, results of audits and follow up actions required and bond in the profit and loss account through the financing line which relates in their annual audit plan.
These may cover areas such as revenue assurance, part to the 1.5% premium paid on redemption.
However, the majority of the loss accounting operations review following the implementation of a Group-wide relates to the acceleration of the unwind of the discount on the bond which financial accounting system, review of annual bonus calculations and IT would, had the bond not been redeemed early, have been accounted for over security and systems reviews.
During 2016, there has been more linkage between the Internal Auditors reports and the key risks identified by the Company.
The Committee can see TAXATION clearly from the risk reports which risks have been reviewed by the Internal The calculation of some of the Groups potential tax assets and liabilities Auditor as part of their annual review.
The Chairman of the Committee meets involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items, regularly with the Internal Auditor.
whose tax treatment cannot be finalised until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The Financial Reporting Council issued a guide for Audit Committees to The Committee addresses these matters through a range of reporting from help them evaluate auditor effectiveness.
There are several criteria included senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness of within the report and while the Committee did not undertake a formal review, managements views including the degree to which these are supported by it received inputs from different sources such as the Auditors themselves, as professional advice from external legal and other advisory firms.
This is also well as management and the input from the members of the Committee itself an area of higher audit risk and, accordingly, the Committee received detailed STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 77 which assisted it to determine that the Auditor and its work were effective.
We receive advice from other firms for specific projects and other long-term At each of the Audit Committee meetings, the Auditor would report on any projects.
We have continued to use PwC, KPMG and EY for various projects issues it perceived regarding quality control and where it thought judgements some are new projects and some have been continuing for several years.
Areas had been applied by management and if it agreed with these, or offered an where we have used other firms relate to the new IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 standards alternative view if appropriate.
The findings and reports from the Auditor and undertaking a review of our current accounting standards manual.
We also help the Audit Committee make any assessments about the need to update use different firms to support us on VAT and ad hoc PAYE issues.
processes or undertake further review work on any particular issues.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE In March 2016 and in accordance with the Competition and Markets Authority requirements regarding the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies We have included more focus this year on linking the various sections of Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and the Annual Report to make it easier for shareholders to navigate to find the Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, we undertook a competitive information they need, while not diluting the level of transparency in our tender process of our External Auditor.
After a thorough tender process, the disclosures.
When forming its opinion as to whether the Annual Report and Committees recommendation to the Board was to reappoint Deloitte LLP as Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee reflected on the Groups External Auditor for 2016.
Deloitte LLP were reappointed at the the information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
2016 Annual General Meeting and will also be put forward for reappointment In particular, the Committee considered: at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Under the EU directive, Deloitte are now capable of being reappointed for a further 10 years after the retender, however IS THE REPORT FAIR?
shareholder approval will be required each year.
Is the whole story presented and has any sensitive material been omitted Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through a variety of that should have been included?
To ensure the Auditors independence, the Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship with Deloitte and receives summaries at Is the reporting on the business segments in the narrative reporting consistent each Audit Committee meeting from the Auditor as to their independence.
The with those used for the financial reporting in the financial statements?
Committee concluded that it continues to have an objective and professional Are the key messages in the narrative reflected in the financial reporting?
relationship with Deloitte and that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
The External Auditor is Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the financial reporting?
required to change the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
During the year a new audit partner was identified and took over as the IS THE REPORT BALANCED?
lead for the 2016 reporting period after Deloittes successful reappointment.
Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative reporting in the front During the year, Deloitte charged the Group $1.1m 2015: $1.2m for audit and and the financial reporting in the back of the report, and does the messaging audit-related services.
reflected in each remain consistent when read independently of each other?
NON-AUDIT SERVICES Is the Annual Report properly a document for shareholders?
The Companys Auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where, Are the statutory and adjusted measures explained clearly with appropriate as a result of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, prominence?
perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor to ensure that there is adequate significant issues reported in this Audit Committee Report consistent with protection of their independence and objectivity.
Inmarsats policy is to the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set adopt a strict 70% cap for allowable non-audit services.
To ensure the policy out in the financial statements?
is adequately controlled, we adopt several processes, which were enforced during 2016.
Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services How do these compare with the risks that Deloitte plan to include in their require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the fee is audit report?
Any commitments above this amount will require the Audit Committee Chairmans approval.
A summary is supplied to the Audit IS THE REPORT UNDERSTANDABLE?
Committee at each meeting where amounts have been committed below Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report?
Separate engagement letters are signed by our CFO for each audit and non-audit engagement with Deloitte.
Are the important messages highlighted appropriately throughout the document?
Using 2015, 2014 and 2013 for calculating the average audit fees paid to Deloitte, the cap on non-audit services as it relates to 2016 will be $1m, and Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner that reflects this amount in 2016 was $0.2m compared to $0.6m in 2015.
A breakdown of the whole story?
the fees paid to Deloitte during the year is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
CONCLUSION It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several firms, which Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2016 Annual may include Deloitte, before work on non-audit projects is awarded.
Contracts Report and Accounts is representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced are awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits.
The Committee and and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for the Companys management are aware that the level of fees paid to Deloitte shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model for non-audit services compared to audit services was significantly higher and strategy.
several years ago due to work undertaken regarding specialist tax advice on certain transactions and has worked to ensure that the non-audit fee levels have reduced over the last few years.
