STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 61 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 From 6 April 2016 the Dividend Tax Credit was replaced by a new Dividend Allowance in the form of a 0% tax rate on the first 5,000 of dividend income per year.
INTEREST CAPITALISATION The Group capitalised $35.3m during the period under review.
The $35.3m of interest capitalised in the period has been treated as fully tax deductible in the UK.
BRANCHES Alison Horrocks Chief Corporate Affairs Officer The Group has activities operated through many jurisdictions.
and Company Secretary CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements outlined within the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R and forms The Companys ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 each are listed on the part of the management report as required under Disclosure and Transparency London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the issued share capital Rule 4.
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Report of the of the Company, together with movements in the issued share capital during Directors is incorporated into the report by reference and is referred to below.
the year, can be found in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
The purpose of this Report is to provide information to the members of the The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to fixed Company.
The Report contains certain forward-looking statements based on income.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for each share of Euro knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of the Report.
All 138,086 ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share These statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated.
Nothing There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding or on the transfer of in this Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the The Responsibility Statement made by the Board regarding the preparation transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of of the financial statements is set out on page 103. control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
BUSINESS REVIEW, STRATEGIC REPORT AND GOING CONCERN FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Despite the recent rerating of the satellite sector and uncertain economic outlook, the Directors believe that the Group has a resilient business model, A description of the Companys business model, strategy and factors likely to strong free cash flow generation and is compliant with all its financial affect the Groups future developments are incorporated into this Report by covenants.
In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors reference.
They are set out in the Business Review on pages 28 to 45 and the considered the Board-approved budget, the rolling forecast, the cash flow Strategic Report on pages 1 to 55. forecast and the most recent five-year long range business plan.
In addition, the Directors considered the maturity profile of existing debt facilities, other CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT liabilities as well as actual and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain the forecasts and covenant calculations were stress tested by applying a set of parts of the Corporate Governance Report to be outlined in the Report of the downside scenarios.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Directors.
This information is laid out in the Corporate Governance Report on expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational pages 56 through to 78. existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS VIABILITY STATEMENT There were no such events required to be disclosed.
The viability statement containing a broader assessment by the Board of the RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Companys ongoing viability is set out on page 55.
The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement ON-MARKET PURCHASE AUTHORITY on page 112.
The Directors authorities are determined by UK legislation and the Articles of A final dividend of 33.37 cents USD will be paid on 27 May 2017 to Association.
At the 2016 AGM, the Directors were authorised by shareholders shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 21 April 2017. to allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to make Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling or in shares using an exchange market purchases of ordinary shares.
Shareholders are being requested to rate derived from the WMReuters GBP USD 9am fix London time four renew these authorities at the 2017 AGM.
business days prior to the date of announcement of the scrip reference price.
Explanatory documentation in respect of the operation of the scrip dividend will be sent to shareholders in April 2017.
62 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to Details of the Directors and Officers liability insurance and the indemnities report greenhouse gas GHG emissions pursuant to Section 7 of the provided to the Directors, Company Secretary and certain employees where Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations they serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Groups request are provided on 2013.
The table below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the years ended page 68 in the Corporate Governance Report.
The data reported for 2015 has been restated due to improved accuracy and removal of estimated data.
Our emissions have EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE been independently verified to the ISO 14064-3 standard to ensure continuous INVOLVEMENT improvement of our GHG reporting.
Details of the employment policies and employee involvement are provided in the Resources and Relationships Report and are also in the Corporate Greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e 2016 2015 Governance Report.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 1,164 978 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE SCHEMES Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for Details of the long-term incentive schemes can be found on pages 101 and 102 our own use Scope 2: location-based 11,743 12,141 of the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use Scope 2: market-based 10,559 14,010 HEALTH AND SAFETY Other indirect emissions Scope 3 15,411 15,681 The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by its Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and Scope 2 emissions calculated using the market-based approach using supplier specific emission factors are calculated and business activities.
During 2016, we have continued to work closely with our reported in tCO2 subsidiary companies to harmonise health and safety best practice.
Rupert Pearce, our CEO, is the Director designated for health and safety matters at Board level.
Methodology We quantify and report our organisational GHG emissions according to the ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Consumption data has been collated by our energy STRATEGY consultant, Carbon Credentials, and has been converted into CO2 equivalent using the UK Government 2016 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting We operate in over 50 locations with a combined workforce of approximately and the International Energy Agency international electricity conversion 1,900 staff.
Due to our diversity of activities the Company recognises it has factors in order to calculate emissions from corresponding activity data.
impacts affecting the local and global environment.
However, it should be noted that the satellite industry and our own business is low on the scale of This report has been prepared in accordance with the recent amendments carbon generators.
We have provided details of our objectives for how we to the GHG Protocols Scope 2 Guidance: we have therefore reported both a manage our environmental activities on page 27.
The following information location-based and market-based Scope 2 emissions figure.
The Scope 2 summarises the report generated over the year regarding our market-based figure reflects emissions from electricity purchasing decisions actual performance.
When quantifying emissions using the market-based approach we have used a supplier specific emissions factor where possible.
Our environmental impacts include the use of natural resources, the If these factors were unavailable, a residual mix emissions factor was then consumption of energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, used, and as a last option the location-based grid emissions factor was used.
as well as staff and visitors who travel extensively.
This approach is in line with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Data Hierarchy.
All energy and waste management activities are controlled by the Business The table below shows our total emissions and our emissions as a metric Environment team which is based in London.
for the year ended 31 December 2016 using the two different Scope 2 accounting methodologies.
Location-based Market-based approach approach Greenhouse gas emissions tCO e 2016 2015 2016 2015 2 Total Scope 1 and 2 12,907 13,118 11,724 14,988 tCO e per full-time 2 equivalent FTE employee 6.8 7.0 6.2 8.0 Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 28,319 28,800 27,135 30,669 The emissions intensity calculation is based on a figure of 1,900 FTE in 2016 and 1,864 FTE in 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 63 Since 2015 our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions have decreased by 22% Improving performance using the market-based method.
This decrease in emissions has occurred Since establishing our global environmental data programme in 2014 with Carbon despite a large increase in the number of full time equivalent FTE Credentials, we have expanded the scope of this programme with quarterly employees.
Consequently, our emissions intensity has decreased 23% reporting of energy consumption and emissions at several sites.
The purpose from 8.0 to 6.2 tCO e per FTE employee.
2 of this is to continually monitor consumption in order to identify opportunities We have also chosen to voluntarily disclose a selection of our Scope 3 to improve energy performance.
We have also begun to monitor additional emissions, including water, waste and business travel.
Our Scope 3 emissions environmental impacts, such as water and waste, where this data is available.
have decreased by 2% as a result of a reduction in business travel.
In 2016, we submitted a response to the CDP Climate Change programme gaining a score of B Management.
Within this disclosure, we reported the TOTAL EMISSIONS 2016 tCO e 2 Scope 1 key business risks and opportunities that climate change presents to Inmarsat.
1,164 We have also committed to setting a science-based emission reduction target in line with global efforts to limit global temperatures to 2C above pre-industrial levels.
Scope 2 market-based PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 10,559 Scope 3 Details of principal risks and uncertainties are provided on pages 50 to 55.
15,411 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given in notes 3 and 31 to the consolidated EMISSIONS INTENSITY SCOPE 1 AND 2 MARKET-BASED tCO e FTE 2 financial statements.
8.0 6.2 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group continues to invest in new services and technology necessary to support its activities through research and development programmes.
POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year, no political donations were made.
It remains the policy of 2015 2016 the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure.
However, the Directors recognise that occasions arise where it may be in the best interests of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, Reporting boundaries and limitations to participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the requirements of the control approach and have adopted a materiality threshold of 5% for GHG Companies Act 2006, shareholders are asked annually to give authority at reporting purposes.
As a result, emissions from locations with fewer than 15 the Annual General Meeting for the Company to make political donations staff on-site have been reasonably estimated as immaterial and are thus and to incur political expenditure.
excluded from our GHG disclosure.
Emissions for all significant sites have been disclosed, which includes our top five highest consuming locations: INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS London, Burum, Auckland, Paumalu and Perth.
The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for the 2016 reporting period are: As at 6 March 2017, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers, gas oil combustion within Rules, of the following significant interests: generators, road fuel combustion within vehicles, and fugitive refrigerants from air-conditioning equipment Percentage of voting rights over Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our own use Shareholder ordinary shares of 0.0005 each Scope 3: Business travel, water, waste, and well-to-tank electricity emissions Lansdowne Partners Limited 11.72% Blackrock 6.31% Assumptions and estimations Aberdeen Asset Managers 6.27% In some cases, missing data has been estimated using either extrapolation of Jupiter Asset Management Limited 6.19% available data from the reporting period or data from 2015 as a proxy.
Artemis Investment Management 4.54% MassMutal Life Insurance Company 3.77% Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.46% Voting rights are based on the information we believe is a disclosable interest to the Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 6 March 2017 64 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED RULES GOVERNING DIRECTORS AUDITOR APPOINTMENTS Each of the Directors has confirmed that: Shareholders can appoint or remove Directors by an ordinary resolution in a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which general meeting but specific conditions on vacation of office apply where a the Companys Auditor is unaware and Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office: or where the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a a Director becomes bankrupt, mentally incapacitated or persistently absent Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and from Directors meetings.
Further information on Directors appointments are to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information provided on page 72 of the Corporate Governance Report.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the DIRECTORS POWER provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
General powers of the Directors are provided by the Companys Articles of A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to Association and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The powers are subject authorise the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors to determine its to limitations imposed by statute and directions given by special resolution of remuneration will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
Details of Directors powers are provided on pages 65 to 67 of the Corporate Governance Report.
2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held on 4 May 2017 at 10.00am at 99 City DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting, which sets out the resolutions A full list of the individuals who were Directors of the Company during the to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM, is contained in a separate circular and financial year ended 31 December 2016 is set out below: is enclosed with this Annual Report.
Andrew Sukawaty, Rupert Pearce, Tony Bates, Stephen Davidson, Janice By order of the Board Obuchowski, Kathleen Flaherty, General C. Robert Kehler Rtd, Sir Bryan Carsberg, Dr Abe Peled, Robert Ruijter, Simon Bax, Dr Hamadoun Tour ALISON HORROCKS FCIS and Phillipa McCrostie.
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Company Secretary Stephen Davidson and Kathleen Flaherty retired as Directors on 19 January 2017 and 2 March 2017 respectively.
8 March 2017 Details of the interests of each Director and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares and share awards held are set out in full in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 100.
Details of the Directors conflicts of interest policy are provided on page 68.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Articles of Association can only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
