ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS Delivering our strategic objectives is dependent on key resources and relationships.
and customs and have the necessary OUR RESOURCES AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT depth of relationships required to RELATIONSHIPS UNDERPINS OUR GROWTH operate successfully.
The Group is a well known and highly The Group has selectively expanded its respected specialist asset manager in our investment strategies to support its growth.
FUND DISTRIBUTION DEPENDS ON core markets with a strong brand and track The Group has leveraged its 27 year track INVESTOR RELATIONSHIPS record, supported by 27 years of investment record and established fund management Our dedicated distribution team experience.
The performance of our people infrastructure to support new and existing has been recognised in seven awards during teams to develop investment strategies that is embedded within the business.
Our relationships with third party fund the last year.
meet the needs of third party investors.
investors have strengthened since the The contribution of our people to the In establishing new strategies the Group is team was established in 2011.
The team value of our business is demonstrated focused on identifying individuals and teams has increased investor awareness of our through our: with a differentiated investment proposition.
funds, expanding our fund investor network Business development Our infrastructure and marketing teams both geographically and by investor support innovative investment professionals Investment management skills type.
This enhanced network promotes to develop investment strategies that deliver continuous engagement and supports the Distribution capabilities the returns demanded by investors.
Our fund development of investment strategies which Scalable infrastructure management infrastructure underpins these provide solutions to investors.
new investment strategies as they grow Our distribution team have replicated the assets under management.
local model established by the investment business.
Their local market knowledge, AN ACTIVELY MANAGED supported with an understanding of what INVESTMENT PROCESS the Group can offer, is giving us access to The Group has a consistent, efficient new investors.
and robust investment culture across its investment strategies.
We deliver a SCALABLE INFRASTRUCTURE AWARDS disciplined investment process, demonstrate Our infrastructure teams support the whole core credit principles and are focused business, ensuring consistency and quality on capital preservation.
Our rigorous of service to our counterparties and fund risk analysis and engagement with our investors.
They have established, manage portfolio management processes continue and continue to develop systems and throughout the life of the investment, controls to support our investment activities encompassing regular reviews, active and effectively report on the performance management of the investment and a and activities of the Group and our funds.
Our employees have the market skills, Our investment professionals are specialists, Best Audit and Risk Disclosure Lender of the year knowledge and relationships to support FTSE 250 in Europe with the skills required to understand and the business as we progress our strategic assess the relevant risks and opportunities priorities, expanding both our fund range for their investment strategies, to originate and our geographical coverage.
investments and then manage those assets to realise returns for investors.
MANAGING OUR KEY Successful application of those skills has RELATIONSHIPS supported the development of our long L Lender of the year ender of the year F Fundraising of the year undraising of the year Eu Eur rope ope Eu Eur rope ope Building and maintaining our key standing track record.
relationships is essential to both support We value the local knowledge of our the growth of the business and deliver our investment professionals.
We believe that strategic objectives.
this is crucial to maintain a strong flow of investment opportunities and to effectively manage our investments.
Our teams are JJunior lender of the year unior lender of the year S Senior lender of the year enior lender of the year embedded in their markets, speak the Eu Eur rope ope Eu Eur rope ope local languages, understand local laws 36 37 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO The Group is expanding and strengthening its relationships with third 1 OUR PEOPLE party investors.
Our investment strategies offer investors an opportunity to diversify their portfolio and generate yield.
We are continuously To successfully deliver our strategic priorities engaged with our investors to understand their current and future the Group is focused on engaging with and needs and to ensure that we have the investment strategies to meet GROW ASSETS motivating its employees.
UNDER Effective two way communication with our The availability of balance sheet capital to co-invest and to support MANAGEMENT people is essential to build and maintain business development is underpinned by our relationships with our engagement.
We have a number of formal key finance counterparties.
These include banks, bondholders, other and informal channels to achieve this.
These include quarterly whole business The Group has an active compliance team who work with the business and briefings, an intranet and regular team and our regulators to both identify and manage regulatory risk and also to manager meetings.
promote best practice within the marketing, investment and infrastructure teams.
The Group has established a three lines of defence model to The Group conducts regular, confidential, enhance its risk management processes.
You can read more about risk employee surveys to identify the areas of the and how it is managed on pages 28 to 35. business in need of further development, and those areas that are performing well.
The last survey was conducted in 2015 and demonstrated that the Group was Our investment professionals manage the relationships necessary to 2 originate and source investment opportunities for our funds.
These performing above financial services norms.
relationships include financial advisers, banks and other investment It also demonstrated clear progress on managers.
Our reputation, built up over 27 years, has generated strong, the areas for improvement identified in the supportive, asset sourcing networks.
SELECTIVELY ICG is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Group considers that training and We acknowledge the relevance to the investor of environmental, social development are essential to attract and and governance factors, and of the long term health and stability of retain people of the highest calibre and has the market as a whole.
Our investment committees and investment always invested significantly in this.
We are professionals take responsibility for applying the principles in practice, taking a proactive approach to considering environmental, social and committing to enhancing the knowledge and corporate governance factors in all our investment decisions.
skills of our people and nurturing their talent.
We run an extensive programme of internal and external training to develop and enhance core skills, increase technical competency and to develop future leaders.
The ongoing development of our people is supported by our performance management system.
This provides a regular forum We invest money across the capital structure of companies and property 3 assets.
We seek to develop strong relationships both with owners and for employees and managers to review the management teams.
Our investment teams have local market performance against agreed objectives and knowledge and access to the Groups extensive sector and market to identify areas for further development.
experience to support those businesses.
Attendance at board meetings MANAGE Our people are offered access to a range of of originated corporate investments both increases our knowledge of PORTFOLIOS benefits designed to attract, develop and the business and allows our investment professionals to develop strong TO MAXIMISE relationships with management teams.
We ensure our VALUE levels of overall remuneration are sufficient to attract and retain talent.
Benefits include: pension contributions, healthcare and health screening, life assurance, child care vouchers, travel insurance, share save scheme, gym membership and cycle to work schemes.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED The Group supports flexible working, access opportunities in the financial sector.
have, and we take appropriate measures to with 13% of employees benefitting The programme is now in its fourth year.
limit our energy use and carbon output.
The current 15 people have participated in the scheme The Group is required to state the annual engagement of our people is further to date, with three currently working within quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon demonstrated by staff retention, based on the Group.
Of the 12 intern alumni, over 90% dioxide equivalent from activities for which opening headcount, of 93.25%.
have secured full time roles within the Group the Group is responsible.
The Groups and or elsewhere.
carbon emissions result predominantly from DIVERSITY AND VALUES The Group has made a five year, 500k business travel.
The permanent employee population of commitment to Impetus-PEFs ThinkForward Our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions 268 represents 28 different nationalities.
ThinkForward was set up by have decreased by 17% during the year.
Of our permanent employees 92 are women the Private Equity Foundation now merged This is principally due to an improvement and 176 men.
We do not record the religion with Impetus to form Impetus-PEF in 2010 in Scope 1 data quality.
Accurate data or ethnicity of employees.
The senior to dramatically reduce the risk of young collection remains a challenge where we management team excluding the Groups people becoming NEETs not in education, rely on third parties, such as the landlord or Board comprises two women and four men employment or training.
According to utilities consultants or changes in building and ICGs Board comprises eight people of Impetus-PEF, 15% of young people are management occur.
We are continually which one is a woman.
failing to make a successful move from striving to improve the quality of our education into employment.
The charity We are committed to providing a safe and greenhouse gas disclosure.
Improved access places dedicated coaches in schools where healthy work environment for our people and availability of consumption data enables there are young people who have been where diversity is valued, where everyone is us to report with enhanced accuracy year identified as at risk of becoming NEETs.
treated fairly and with dignity and respect, on year.
The coaches work with individuals to help regardless of age, gender, race, sexual During the most recent reporting year we them achieve their goals, providing support orientation, disability, religion or beliefs.
complied with Energy Savings Opportunity both at school and at home.
We do not tolerate discrimination of any Scheme ESOS as required by the UK nature and comply fully with appropriate The Groups commitment has provided Environmental Agency.
As part of our ESOS human rights legislation.
We aim for funding to support a full time coach for assessment we undertook energy audits of employees to have a sense of wellbeing the Harpley Tower Hamlets Pupil Referral our significant energy users: construction and we promote a working culture where Unit.
The coach works with young sites, transport and our main office at Juxon employees can freely question practices and people to support them to maximise their House.
Opportunities to reduce energy suggest alternatives.
opportunities while in full time education consumption were identified through and to improve their chances of a successful each of these audits, and processes are OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO transition into long term employment.
underway to implement a number of these OUR COMMUNITY Employees are encouraged to donate time opportunities.
As a result Group electricity to activities supporting ThinkForward.
Our social and community policies and practices are grounded in promoting Our Scope 3 emissions have increased opportunities to young people, through OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO significantly as a result of improved data.
OUR ENVIRONMENT The Group runs an internship programme ICG recognises that businesses have a which offers a number of placements responsibility to protect the environment for young graduates who have achieved and understand the impact their operations academically but are not readily able to Operational scope Greenhouse gas emission source 2016 2015 Units Direct emissions Combustion of fuel and operation 49 177 Tonnes CO e 2 Scope 1 of facilities For more information about ImpetusIndirect emissions Purchased electricity heat 881 915 Tonnes CO2e PEF please visit: Scope 2 location based http: impetus-pef.
uk Purchased electricity heat 966 n a Tonnes CO e 2 For more information about market based ThinkForward please visit: http: think-forward.
uk Indirect emissions Business travel: flights and rail 2,550 1,221 Tonnes CO2e Scope 3 For more information about Tower Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit please visit: Total 3,480 2,313 Tonnes CO2e www.
uk Emissions per FTE 13.7 9.6 Tonnes CO2e per FTE 38 39 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTENTS Letter from the Chairman 40 Board of Directors 42 Our corporate governance framework 44 The Boards year 46 Training and induction 48 Board evaluation 49 Engagement with stakeholders 50 Audit Committee report 51 Risk Committee report 60 Nominations Committee report 66 Remuneration Committee report 69 Compensation summary 74 Directors remuneration policy summary 78 Annual report on remuneration 84 Directors report 94 Directors responsibilities 101
