ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER In November 2015 I became Chairman of the Committee and, as Chairman, I am pleased to report on the work of the Risk Committee during the year.
I would like to thank Kevin Parry for his contribution as inaugural Chairman of the Committee.
THE IDENTIFICATION, CONTROL, MITIGATION AND I recognise that the management of REPORTING OF RISKS ARE CORE TO THE SUCCESSFUL risk is a dynamic process.
As the Group continues to develop and its environment DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
changes, the risks to the business, and OUR WORK FOCUSES ON ENSURING THAT THE GROUP the controls necessary to manage those UNDERSTANDS THE MATERIAL RISKS ARISING FROM risks require regular review.
I believe that a risk management framework provides BOTH THE GEOGRAPHIC AND PRODUCT EXPANSION OF structure to this review and enables effective THE GROUP AND FROM NEW EXTERNAL REGULATIONS, oversight of risks and controls.
AND MANAGES THOSE RISKS TO WITHIN THE BOARDS As the Group continues to expand its RISK APPETITE.
geographical and product footprint, whilst simultaneously absorbing ongoing KATHRYN PURVES regulatory change, the Committee has CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE focused on systems of control and monitoring.
I consider that the appointment of the CRO, the ongoing activities of the Operational Risk Group and the work of Internal Audit have enhanced the maturity of the Groups risk management processes.
Following the arrival of the CRO during the year, the Groups three lines of defence structure for internal control ensures clear segregation of risk ownership, oversight and assurance.
The Risk Committee continued to work closely with the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee throughout the year with the aim of effectively covering pertinent topics in the most suitable forum.
During the year the Committee has considered both the design of the risk framework and the risk management processes and methodologies in place to enable the Group to identify, assess, monitor and control threats.
As a result of these reviews and, in conjunction with the CRO, a number of enhancements to the risk management framework were identified and implemented.
The following pages set out the Risk Committee report for the financial year 2016.
The report is structured in two parts: 1.
Governance of risk: our scope and terms of reference 2. Review of the year: the significant risk issues we addressed 60 61 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Good risk management practice requires a THE YEAR AHEAD GOVERNANCE OF RISK sound understanding of the Groups risks, The identification, control, mitigation On behalf of the Board, the Committee the appetite for risk taking and mitigations to and reporting of risks are fundamental encourages, and seeks to safeguard, high limit downside exposure.
During the year the aspects of operating in the financial standards of risk management and effective Committee undertook a robust assessment services sector.
As a result the Committee internal controls.
of the Groups principal risks, taking into will continue to monitor the risks faced account changes in the business and those by the Group in delivering its strategic ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES in the wider environment.
The principal objectives, particularly emerging risks, and The Committee meets regularly, at least risks faced by the Group and how they are the effectiveness of controls.
The Groups three times a year, and is responsible for: managed are set out on pages 32 to 35 of regulatory capital position will remain a this Annual Report.
Reviewing the Groups identification, and significant focus as we monitor delivery management, of current and forwardThe Committee reviewed the improvements of the strategy.
looking principal risks to reporting on the effectiveness of material We expect to see the continued controls to meet the revised requirements Reviewing material risk events and enhancement of the risk management of the UK Corporate Governance Code implementation of remedial action framework including the establishment see page 31. where necessary of an executive risk committee.
I consider that a core component of an Advising the Board on risk appetite and I would be pleased to discuss the effective risk management framework tolerance and monitoring the Groups Committees work with any shareholder.
for a financial services business is the position against agreed appetites ICAAP.
The ICAAP is an important tool Reviewing the ICAAP when appropriate in understanding the impact of business and at least annually Kathryn Purves decisions and external events on the Groups Chairman of the Risk Committee Reviewing the risk management regulatory capital position.
The ICAAP is framework, approving risk policies, 23 May 2016 utilised on an ongoing basis, in particular to standards and limits within the overall assess the regulatory capital implications of appetite and tolerance approved by business decisions, and is formally reviewed the Board by the Committee on an annual basis.
Reviewing reports on the effectiveness of During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups risk management systems and managements assessment of the regulatory internal controls capital implications of the 2015 special dividend prior to it being discussed by the Reviewing the Groups procedures for Board.
In addition, the CRO undertook a identifying, assessing, controlling and mitigating the principal risks faced by thorough review of the Groups ICAAP to the Group ensure that it reflected current best practice.
The Committee will ensure that future Ensuring that procedures allow for business decisions continue to consider the proportionate and independent regulatory capital position.
investigation of identified issues and appropriate follow up action Comprehensive reporting of the work of the Risk Committee and the risks faced by Advising the Remuneration Committee the Group is an important component of the on the alignment of remuneration with Annual Report.
It was therefore pleasing risk appetite that the 2015 Annual Report was recognised Reviewing and approving the statements as the Best Audit and Risk disclosure in the to be included in the Annual Report FTSE 250 by the ICSA.
concerning risk management Annually considering and approving the remit of the risk management function ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED COMPOSITION EFFECTIVENESS The Committee consists of Non Executive The Committee reviews its terms of Directors only.
The current members reference and effectiveness annually.
are Kathryn Purves Chairman of the An external effectiveness review of the Committee, Justin Dowley, Peter Gibbs, Risk Committee will take place later in the Kevin Parry and Kim Wahl.
The interim internal review Biographical details can be found on pages 42 in March 2016 reviewed the Committees to 43 performance and concluded that there were The Committee members have a wide no significant areas for concern in respect range of business and financial experience, of the performance of the Committee or any including risk management, fund of its members.
The findings of the formal external review to be held, and any related management and investment, regulation and compliance, M&A, tax and international actions, will be fully disclosed in next years business practices.
In particular, Kathryn Annual Report.
Purves was recently the CRO of Partnership The 2015 effectiveness review was Assurance Group plc and Kevin Parry is the completed by all Risk Committee members former chairman of Schroder plcs executive and regular invited attendees.
These skills enable the included best practice questions.
Committee to fulfil its terms of reference in a The results confirmed that the breadth of the robust and independent manner.
Committees work has expanded in line with Group developments and that it operates The Executive Directors of the Board are not members of the Committee but attend effectively, fulfils its terms of reference, meetings at the invitation of the Chairman and receives reliable and trustworthy information from management.
At the time of of the Committee.
The CRO attends all the review, most respondents were looking meetings of the Committee and the Group Compliance Officer, Head of Internal forward to the presence of a CRO which Audit and the Company Secretary also would allow for the preparation of more comprehensive papers and improvements attend meetings.
62 63 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS SUMMARY OF MEETINGS HOW THE COMMITTEE SPENT ITS TIME IN THE YEAR The Committee held four meetings PRINCIPAL AND EMERGING RISKS during the year.
In each of its meetings, Identification and management of principal risks it discusses principal and emerging risks Risk appetite and tolerances with management, receives a report from the CRO incorporating the work of the Operational Risk Group and receives reports on global compliance including OTHER Committee governance the monitoring programme and regulatory developments, funds, risk management People changes and operational controls.
Other work is Best practice developments RISK MANAGEMENT undertaken periodically, either once or twice FRAMEWORK a year, including deep dives into particular Review of the updated risk areas and risks where thought necessary.
management framework RISK MANAGEMENT Over the course of the year the Committee Oversight of risk policies PROCEDURES AND considered and discussed the following CONTROLS Effectiveness of risk significant matters.
management systems Review of risk events and remedial actions REGULATORY RISKS Impact of regulatory change ICAAP Resourcing ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN CONCLUSION The Group is exposed to risk The Committee received regular updates setting out the enacted The regular updates provide sufficient as the regulatory requirements and expected changes to regulations.
The Committee considered information to enable the Committee to be for its activities change in detail the requirements of MiFID II, focusing on potential satisfied that the Group manages its compliance changes to product governance, delivery of best execution affairs with appropriate diligence.
to investors and changes to the structure of remuneration.
The Committee requested regular updates on The Committee discussed the resourcing and oversight required implementation of MiFID II.
Principal risk see pages 34 to 35 to manage the new regulatory requirements.
The Committee was updated on a visit by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Singaporean regulator of the Groups Singaporean subsidiary following the granting of its licence.
Review of risk management The CRO was tasked with reviewing the Groups risk management The Committee supports the changes framework framework and proposing any changes thought necessary.
proposed and is satisfied that the proposed risk The CRO updated the Committee following his review of the management framework is appropriate for the existing risk management framework.
The current approach was risks of the Group.
deemed effective, but could be enhanced with improvements to risk registers and developing and embedding a common risk language across the Group.
The review of the risk management framework was supported by a non executive training session by Deloitte on risk management frameworks see page 48.
ICAAP the Internal Capital The impact of the proposed special dividend on the regulatory The Committee was satisfied that the Group Adequacy Assessment capital position of the Group was considered prior to the special would have sufficient regulatory capital Process dividend proposal being discussed at the Board.
resources following the payment of the The Committee undertook a detailed reviewed of the ICAAP, proposed special dividend.
reviewing the current and future impact of the principal risks The Committee is satisfied that the Group has facing the Group on the Groups regulatory capital position.
and will have adequate regulatory capital in the event of the crystallisation of principal risks The CRO took external advice in the preparation of the ICAAP to provide a market benchmark.
The ICAAP is an important tool and will continue The Pillar 3 disclosures are available on the Companys website at www.
com to be used in decision making processes.
Corporate Governance During the year the Committee considered and approved The Committee is satisfied that the Code changes the proposals to enhance the processes for monitoring the enhanced process is sufficient to identify all effectiveness of material controls and the resulting enhancements material controls.
The requirement to issue a viability statement had The Committee worked closely with the Audit been early adopted in the 2015 Annual Report.
Committee to review the effectiveness of material controls and confirmed that there were no areas of significant weakness and it was satisfied that the key controls operated effectively throughout the year.
Other principal risks see pages The Committee has overseen and challenged the assessment and The Committee considers that the principal 32 to 35 the Group uses a management of principal risks faced by the Group by reference risks faced by the Group and the tolerances risk scorecard as a key part of to the risk scorecard which has been presented to the Committee and key risk indicators for each principal risk are its risk management framework.
adequately captured by the processes in place.
The scorecard summarises The Committee carefully considered proposed changes to the The Committee is satisfied that the risk the principal risks faced by principal risks as a result of changes in the business.
This review scorecard is an effective mechanism for the Group, the tolerance of reaffirmed the relevance of many of the existing principal risks, identifying and monitoring the principal risks the Group to each respective recognised the opportunity to consolidate closely associated to which the Group is exposed.
principal risk, and key risk risks and highlighted the need to add or remove a small number of The Committee expects to see ongoing indicators that indicate, for risks.
In conjunction with this review, the stated risk tolerance of improvements to this process with further each principal risk, the extent the business was challenged.
key risk indicators identified and monitored, to which the tolerance is being additional commentary to clarify movements in approached or has been key risk indicators and a forward-looking view.
exceeded 64 65 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN CONCLUSION Specific risk reviews The Committee reviewed employee turnover across the The Committee considers that the controls Group, with particular attention paid to those considered to be in place to manage this risk are operating key individuals.
effectively and recognises that the residual The Committee reviewed key leavers and the reason for risk is increased as a result of current market their departure.
The Group has successfully recruited for key roles.
Principal risk see pages 34 to 35 The Committee received a detailed briefing on cyber security The Committee challenged the level of ongoing which included a review of types of cyber attack and their training to ensure all staff were vigilant to possible objectives.
The briefing set out the areas to be threats.
The Committee is satisfied that considered by the business in establishing an appropriate risk the plan set out is sufficient to manage this management policy and detailed the actions completed and the ongoing threat.
Principal risk see pages 34 to 35 businesss plan to enhance security and increase the businesss capability to detect and manage cyber attacks.
The Committee has received regular updates on the activities The Committee concluded that the Treasury of the Treasury Committee in managing the Groups exposure Committee was effective in managing these to financial risks and, in particular, in ensuring the Group has risks for the Group and will continue to receive sufficient resources and liquidity to meet its requirements.
regular reports of their activities.
During the year the Board reviewed and approved Principal risk see pages 34 to 35 recommendations to amend the counterparty exposure threshold set out in the Groups Treasury Policy.
The Committee received a briefing on conduct risk from the The Committee supports the implementation Group Compliance Officer setting out the regulators of the proposed enhancements to manage expectations for business conduct.
There were no significant conduct risk within the Group.
issues identified but areas where the Group should consider improving its processes were identified and a plan was agreed to deliver those enhancements.
OTHER MATTERS CONSIDERED In addition to the significant matters addressed above, the Committee maintained a rolling agenda of items for its review including funds risk management and operational controls, the adequacy of resourcing in the compliance and risk functions, and compliance with internal policies.
INTERNAL AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE MONITORING The Committee supported the Audit Committee in its oversight of the internal audit programme see page 59, which is risk based.
It is designed to permit changes to the programme in the light of changed circumstances and has been updated to reflect the changes in the principal risks recognised by the Group.
Additionally, in March, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Committee reviews and approves the programme of compliance monitoring to be undertaken during the following fiscal year and at each of its subsequent meetings reviews the status and output of compliance monitoring actually undertaken relative to the planned programme.
During the year the Committee ensured that appropriate monitoring was undertaken in accordance with the approved programme for the year.
No significant matters of concern were identified.
