ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT TRAINING AND INDUCTION The Board recognises the importance of the As well as deepening their understanding INDUCTION continued professional development of the of the Groups business, strategies and The goal of the Groups induction process Directors in order to build on their existing markets, these sessions allow Non Executive for new Directors is to create a programme skills and experience.
During the year the Directors to understand team structures and of briefings, concentrated in the early Board received detailed presentations about assist with succession planning.
period of a Directors appointment, specific strategies and business units, to In addition, the Board and its various which enable that Director to contribute ensure that the Non Executive members Committees regularly receive technical or to Board proceedings from the time of the Board are fully aware of the detailed governance updates from external advisers.
The programme operations of the Group.
In addition, a During the year, the Audit Committee is tailored to the particular skills and regular training programme has been received regular updates from Deloitte as experience of the incoming Director: on established.
Under this programme, the five to market and industry developments, the appointment a Director will receive a pack Non Executive Directors of the Company Risk Committee was given a presentation by of relevant documentation and policies receive detailed presentations from staff Deloitte on best practice risk management, and will subsequently have a detailed members about specialist areas relating to and the Remuneration Committee received induction to the Group, its business and its the Groups business in addition to input presentations from PwC on trends in personnel through a series of meetings and from external advisers.
governance practice and other relevant presentations.
No new Directors joined developments relating to remuneration.
during the year and so no induction process ONGOING TRAINING AND was carried out.
Outside of scheduled meetings, a regular DEVELOPMENT training programme has been established Any new Directors appointed during the The main focus of development for the to allow a more detailed review of certain current financial year will receive a thorough Board has been in continuing to improve topics.
Under this programme, the five induction in line with that provided for their detailed understanding of the Groups Non Executive Directors of the Company previous joiners adjusted for any particular business.
On a regular basis, business receive a detailed and more operationally individual requirements.
unit heads have presented to the Board in focused presentation from staff members relation to developments in their business about specialist topics relating to the areas, including risks and opportunities for Companys business.
Presentations were received by the included a detailed review of the firms Directors during the financial year from the Alternative Credit fund, led by the portfolio Heads of Asia Pacific Mezzanine, Marketing manager and the Head of Operations, and and Client Relations and Real Estate a session about the Groups Collateralised Lending.
Presentations on other subjects Loan Obligation CLO business, led by were also given by the Heads of Corporate two portfolio managers and the Head of Strategy, Operations, Treasury, Finance and Fund Structuring.
Investor Relations, Legal, Compliance, IT and Human Resources.
CASE STUDY: BEST PRACTICE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK This training session was delivered by Deloitte in September 2015 and reflected feedback from the Chief Risk Officer CRO on existing business practices.
The session was well attended I FELT THE SESSION PROVIDED A STRONG and included all Non Executive Directors and Philip Keller CFO, BACKGROUND TO THE SUBSEQUENT REVIEW together with the Groups CRO, Head of Internal Audit, Group OF THE GROUPS RISK MANAGEMENT Compliance Officer and Company Secretary.
FRAMEWORK WITH THE MARKET CONTEXT The material presented illustrated changes in risk management market practice across financial services and made BEING PARTICULARLY INSIGHTFUL.
recommendations for changes to be adopted by the Group, KIM WAHL based on what would be proportionate to a business of ICGs size NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR and complexity.
