50 51 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to report on the work of the Audit Committee.
A key responsibility of the Committee is to oversee that financial information presented by the Group is fair, balanced and understandable.
To do this we focus on the WE FOCUS OUR WORK ON THE JUDGEMENTAL AREAS independence of our external auditors, the OF ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING.
WE MONITOR NEW assurance provided by internal audit and the quality of financial information.
We have ACCOUNTING AND REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS, AND overseen investment in this area to reflect CONSIDER THEIR IMPACT ON THE GROUP.
WE PERFORM the increasing levels of regulation, combined THIS WORK AGAINST A BACKDROP OF INCREASING with the evolution of best practice and the expansion of the business.
GEOGRAPHICAL AND PRODUCT DIVERSITY IN LINE Our control functions have continued to WITH OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
develop during the year, benefiting from the first full year of the Internal Audit function, KEVIN PARRY CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE the recruitment of a CRO and the expansion of the financial planning and analysis team.
The Audit Committee continued to work closely with the Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee with the aim of effectively covering pertinent topics in the most suitable forum.
The financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with IFRS and include the consolidation of nine credit funds which are controlled.
The Groups loss exposure to these funds is limited to the capital invested by the Group in each fund.
Therefore the Committee believes the presentation of non GAAP measures, including the elimination of the impact of credit fund consolidation, enhances shareholders understanding of the Groups performance.
This year the Committee sought specific assurances on the consistent and accurate calculation of non GAAP measures.
The investment portfolio remains a significant component of the Groups financial returns and therefore, as in prior The following pages set out the Audit Committee report for financial year years, the valuation of investments and 2016.
The report is structured in five parts: associated provisions remains the area of 1.
Committee governance: roles and responsibilities, composition most judgement in the financial statements.
and effectiveness I consider our oversight of this process to be a critical responsibility of the Committee.
2. Review of the year: the significant financial reporting and auditing issues we addressed 3.
Internal controls: the assessment of the adequacy of the control framework 4.
External auditor: their appointment, independence, effectiveness and thoroughness 5.
Internal audit: the establishment and commencement of activities ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Audit and Risk Committees have worked Approving the appointment or termination COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE closely together to enable the Group to issue of the Head of Internal Audit, approving On behalf of the Board, the Committee its viability statement for the second year see the internal audit charter and monitoring encourages and seeks to safeguard high page 30 and for the first time to report on the effectiveness of the Internal Audit standards of integrity and conduct in the review of the effectiveness of material function in the context of the Groups financial reporting and internal control.
The coherence of overall risk management framework our control framework and its importance Reviewing and assessing the annual ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES to the determination of regulatory capital internal audit plan and resources, receiving The Committee meets regularly, at least four requirements has advanced significantly internal audit reports, monitoring times a year.
The terms of reference which are during the year.
Further details can be found in managements responsiveness to Internal set out below are unchanged from last year.
the Risk Committee report on pages 60 to 65.
Audit findings and recommendations Selecting and recommending the The comprehensive reporting of our Audit In carrying out its duties, the Committee appointment and reappointment Committees work is a valuable component is authorised by the Board to obtain any including conducting any tender of of the Annual Report and should reassure information it needs from any Director the external auditor and negotiating and shareholders of the importance placed or employee of the Group.
It is also agreeing their fees and scope of audit on formal reporting and challenge of authorised to seek, at the expense of the Reviewing the performance of the external executive management by the Non Executive Group, appropriate external professional auditor in respect of scope of work, Directors.
It was therefore pleasing that our advice whenever it considers it necessary.
quality of opinion and quality of service: The Committee did not need to take any Audit and Risk Committee reporting was and ensuring the successful rotation of the independent advice during the year.
recognised as the best in the FTSE250 by lead audit partner the ICSA.
COMPOSITION Reviewing the independence and I am standing down from the Audit remuneration of the external auditor The Committee consists of independent Committee at this years AGM to become and the relationship between audit Non Executive Directors only.
The search is underway for and non audit work performed by the members are Kevin Parry Chairman of my successor who will have the opportunity external auditor the Committee, Peter Gibbs, Kim Wahl to bring a fresh approach to the Committees and Kathryn Purves.
Kevin Parry will stand work whilst continuing to ensure quality Reviewing the annual and interim accounts down from the Committee subject to being financial reporting and auditing.
before they are presented to the Board, appointed Chairman of the Company.
in particular addressing any significant I would be pleased to discuss the A search is underway for a new Non issues arising from the audit: accounting Committees work with any shareholder.
Executive Director who will act as Chairman policies and clarity of disclosures: of the Committee with an appointment to be compliance with applicable accounting announced in due course.
and legal standards: and information Kevin Parry Biographical details can be found on pages used in making significant judgements, Chairman of the Audit Committee 42 and 43. including provisioning, going concern and 23 May 2016 viability, is sufficient and objective Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and half yearly reports, trading updates and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance and advising the Board whether it considers the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable 52 53 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS The Committee members have a wide range of business and financial experience, HOW THE COMMITTEE SPENT ITS TIME including risk management, fund management and investment, regulation and compliance, M&A, tax and international business FINANCIAL REPORTING practices.
These skills ensure the Committee Review of Annual and Interim Reports has the relevant sector competence to Consideration of critical areas enable it to fulfil its terms of reference in a of judgement robust and independent manner.
Kevin Parry, Going concern and viability statement a Chartered Accountant, was previously the Chief Financial Officer at Schroders plc, a managing partner at KPMG and currently chairs two other audit committees.
The Board OTHER considers that he has competence in Committee governance accounting and auditing as well as recent and Treasury and capital relevant financial experience.
People changes The Executive Directors and Chairman Accounting developments of the Board are not members of the and technical updates Committee but regularly attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, together with Deloitte LLP, EXTERNAL AUDITOR INTERNAL AUDIT the Companys external auditor, the Group Negotiates and agrees audit scope Approve Strategy and Plan and fees Financial Controller, the Chief Risk Officer Review internal audit reports and the Head of Internal Audit.
Reviews external Monitor outstanding actions audit effectiveness The Committee meets separately with the Receives reports from Deloitte external auditors and Head of Internal Audit without management present at least twice a year to ensure that they are receiving full cooperation from management, obtaining all the information they require The 2015 effectiveness review identified that EFFECTIVENESS and are able to raise matters directly with Audit Committee members would monitor The Committee reviews its terms of the Audit Committee if they consider it is closely the development of the Internal Audit reference and effectiveness annually.
The Committee is satisfied with The terms of reference are summarised the progress and believes there should be above.
Both the 2015 and 2016 effectiveness a formal external review of Internal Audits reviews were carried out using an internal performance in the current year.
An external effectiveness review of the Audit SUMMARY OF MEETINGS Committee will take place in the current IN THE YEAR financial year.
The interim internal review The Committee held four meetings during in March 2016 reviewed the Committees the year in line with the quarterly reporting performance and concluded that there were dates.
The Committee members attending no significant areas for concern in respect of each of the meetings can be found on page the performance of the Committee or any of 47.
In addition, there was a sub-Committee its members.
The Committee reviewed the meeting to review key aspects of the report proposed actions from the May 2015 internal and accounts in both May 2015 and May review and concluded all required actions 2016.
The bulk of the Committees time had been completed.
The findings of the has been spent on financial reporting formal external review to be held, and any and presentation, the valuation of related actions, will be fully disclosed in next investments and the external and internal years Annual Report.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR The agenda of the Committee comprises recurring business: seasonal business and other business.
Over the course of the year, the Committee considered and discussed the following significant matters: THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION FINANCIAL REPORTING The content of the annual, We reviewed all sections of the Annual Report having particular We concluded that whilst the Group did not control semi-annual and quarterly regard for the Committees specific responsibilities for the any portfolio companies, it exercised significant financial reporting needs to financial statements.
We reviewed and challenged work influence over eight entities and controlled nine be appropriate, complying undertaken by management to assess which third party credit funds during the financial year.
Accordingly with laws and regulation.
funds and portfolio companies are either controlled by the the controlled entities have been consolidated into see page 101 and the Group or over which the Group exercises significant influence.
the Groups financial statements and the entities Auditors report on We reviewed all accounting policies for continued over which the Group exercises significant influence pages 103 to 109 appropriateness and consistency.
This has had the impact of grossing up the balance sheet, with total assets and total liabilities both increasing by 2.0bn 2015: 1.5bn.
There were no important changes to accounting policies see pages 116 to 120 and we concluded the accounting policies remained appropriate.
Based on our enquiries of management and external auditors, we concluded they are being properly applied in areas such as revenue recognition, valuation of financial assets, impairments and taxation.
We concluded that the areas of judgement see pages 120 and 121 are properly explained.
We gained comfort from financial management and the external auditors that the Group complied with reporting requirements.
Taken as a whole, the We held preparatory discussions with management to We received confirmation that individuals Annual Report needs determine the format of the Annual Report and reviewed the responsibilities had been fulfilled and confirmed that to be fair, balanced and assigned responsibilities for its content and overall cohesion the overall report was consistent with the Directors understandable so that it and understandability.
Management compared our Annual knowledge.
This allowed the Audit Committee and is relevant to readers.
Report with that of other alternative asset managers and best the Board to be satisfied that the Annual Report taken see page 101 of the practice more widely.
In light of that work we commented on as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
Annual Report design and detailed content, ensuring that feedback on the We were satisfied that the information presented prior year Annual Report had been addressed and examples in the Strategic Report was consistent with the of best practice had been carefully considered in the context performance of the business reported in the of the Group.
A late draft of the Report and Accounts was financial statements.
In particular, we were satisfied reviewed by both the Audit Committee and the Board.
that the estimates and quantified risk disclosures We used the Executive Directors and the Committees in the financial statements are consistent with knowledge to determine the overall fairness, balance and those identified in the Strategic Report.
The understandability prior to final approval by the Board.
We Committee concluded that appropriate judgements considered judgemental matters such as the key risks see had been applied in determining the estimates pages 32 to 35, estimates and the period covered by the and that sufficient disclosure has been made to viability statement.
allow readers to understand the uncertainties surrounding outcomes.
We were satisfied that the viability statement should consider a three year time horizon reflecting both our internal planning cycle and the timescale over which changes to major regulations and the external landscape affecting our business typically take place.
We will continue to monitor feedback for future enhancements to the Annual Report.
54 55 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTINUED Investments represent 85% We reviewed a detailed paper on the valuation process Based on the work of the Committee, executive of our total assets.
88% are management have undertaken and the judgements made in management was asked to look again at the valuation carried at fair value and 12% determining the value of the portfolio.
In addition to reliance of a technology investment.
Following further are carried at amortised on executive management procedures and the work of the work, management determined that the fair value cost.
As the assets are auditors, the Committee continued its practice of a member of the investment equalled cost and should be mainly unquoted and illiquid, of the Committee who is selected in rotation reviewing a amended and the asset categorised as a Level 2 considerable professional small judgemental sample of the investments including a file investment.
The auditors subsequently concurred judgement is required in review and challenge of management.
The review focused on with the amended valuation.
Following the revision determining their valuations key assumptions, macroeconomic factors and sponsorless to the valuation, the Committee concurred with the and associated provisions transaction monitoring.
The Committee accordingly gained valuations and determined that no further adjustments and impairments.
substantive evidence of the appropriateness of reliance on were necessary.
see notes 5 and 9 to the compliance with the Groups valuation procedures.
financial statements and the Auditors report on pages 103 to 109 Non GAAP measures The Group uses the following non GAAP measures: We were satisfied that non GAAP measures, which aid understanding of the Total AUM are widely used in the asset management industry, financial statements but Fee rate on total AUM can provide insight into future performance from must not detract from GAAP Performance of investments the perspective of both our shareholders and our measures.
see KPIs on ROE customers.
We reviewed the non GAAP measures pages 10 to 13 We discussed the use of non GAAP measures and reviewed and were satisfied that they did not detract from their consistency with prior years.
We received comfort from internal audit that the non GAAP We were satisfied that amending the weighted measures had been prepared on a consistent basis with average fee rate KPI to be based on total fee earning prior years.
AUM was appropriate and agreed that this was a better measure of the long term fee streams of the fund management business.
Revenue recognition and We reviewed the income recognition of management fees, We concluded that revenue has been properly cash flows are not entirely performance fees and interest income carefully to ensure recognised in the financial statements.
aligned which can result in that the treatments were consistent with the Groups income being recognised accounting policies.
see note 3 to the financial statements and the Auditors report on pages 103 to 109 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION EXTERNAL AUDIT The auditor needs to We reviewed the standing policies on services that can be We concluded that our conflicts of interest policy be independent of provided by Deloitte see External auditor on page 57 for their remains appropriate and in line with best practice.
management to report on continued appropriateness as to scope and fees.
We received We determined that the Group audit fee of 0.9m the truth and fairness of confirmations from management and Deloitte of adherence appropriately reflected the scope and complexity of the Annual Report without and agreed the fees paid.
We also reviewed the audit fees in the the work undertaken by Deloitte.
context of the size and complexity of the audit.
see the Auditors report The Committee considered the impact of legislation restricting on pages 103 to 109 the use of auditors for non audit services and decided that Deloitte should be replaced as the Groups corporate tax advisers ahead of the 1 April 2017 deadline see page 57.
The audit process We discussed the areas of risks that may result in a material We were satisfied that the audit is effective and the needs to be effective misstatement of the financial results extensively with Deloitte.
opinion is robust and based on the representations, so that the auditors We determined that we had a shared understanding of that the approach was directed to provide a reliable opinion is robust.
audit opinion with a reasonable expectation of the Auditors report on Whilst planning the audit, Deloitte set out for the Audit detecting material errors, irregularities and fraud.
pages 103 to 109 Committee the key tests that they would perform on the higher risk areas and the Committee was satisfied with the proposed scope.
The Committee requested detailed feedback on findings and discussed those findings prior to the approval of the Annual Report.
The Committee ascertained that during the year there had not been any independent review of the Groups prior year audit.
The audit partner confirmed that none of his audits had been subject to an independent review during the year and that one audit file had been subject to internal review in the prior year and was found to be compliant.
Further details on the work the Committee undertook to assess the effectiveness of the audit, including a review of the Audit Quality Review of Deloitte, an interview with Deloitte about their approach to the audit of the financial statements and an oral report from the subsidiary audit partner in Jersey can be found on pages 57 to 58.
INTERNAL AUDIT Oversight of the internal During the year the Committee considered and approved The Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit audit function the updated Internal Audit Strategy and plan for FY16 and Strategy and Plan will provide appropriate assurance FY17, taking into account the principal risks to the Group, and on the controls in place to manage the principal risks approved the Internal Audit Charter.
The Committee reviewed the scopes of the internal audit The Committee is satisfied that reports are issued reviews performed, the agreed reports produced and in a timely manner following reasonable challenge monitored managements progress in implementing the of recommendations and deadlines for changes are actions agreed.
The Committees review of the work undertaken by Internal Audit focused on significant risk issues identified, ensuring that reports were agreed and issued in a timely manner and that the timetable for implementation of agreed recommendations was both realistic and adhered to.
Further details of the work of Internal Audit can be found on page 59.
56 57 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS In addition to the significant matters EXTERNAL AUDITOR AUDIT QUALITY AND addressed above, the Committee EFFECTIVENESS maintained a rolling agenda of items for AUDIT APPOINTMENT The Audit Committee places great its review including the capital strategy, Following the review of the 2015 audit, importance on the quality and effectiveness financial and management reporting, risk the Audit Committee recommended that of the external audit.
In assessing quality and treasury management capabilities, Deloitte LLP should be proposed to and effectiveness, the Committee relevant people changes, the going concern shareholders as the Companys auditors.
looks to the audit teams objectivity, concept of accounting see page 96, The shareholders voted in favour of professional scepticism, continuing the viability statement see page 30, their reappointment.
Deloitte has been professional education and its relationship the Auditors report see pages 103 to the Companys external auditor since its with management.
109, accounting developments and the commencement of trading.
In accordance The Committees assessment includes an auditors management letter.
No issues of with professional and regulatory standards, annual evaluation of the independence and significance arose.
the lead audit partner has changed objectivity of the external auditor and the regularly since that time to safeguard the effectiveness of the audit process, taking INTERNAL CONTROLS independence and objectivity of the audit into consideration relevant professional and Risk management and internal control process.
The most recent audit partner regulatory requirements.
This assessment matters are the responsibility of the Groups rotation occurred in the current year when is based on the results of questionnaires Risk Committee.
Its report is set out on David Barnes succeeded Calum Thomson completed by the Committee members, pages 60 to 65.
The Audit Committee following the 2015 AGM.
the Executive Directors and other reviewed the competence and quantity The Committee complies with the UK relevant senior management.
The results of the financial management function, Corporate Governance Code, the FRC of the evaluation were last reported which was enhanced during the year by Guidance on Audit Committee with regard to the Audit Committee in September the recruitment of a financial planning and to the external audit tendering timetable and 2015.
Having completed the review, and analysis specialist, and was satisfied that the provisions of the EU Regulation on Audit discussed its findings with the auditors, the the function was able to fulfil its first line Reform.
In addition, the Committee complies Committee remains content with Deloittes of defence duties.
The Committee noted with all aspects of the Competition and work whilst identifying some areas for that ad hoc projects often benefitted from Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services service improvement including more specialised external resource.
Under the transitional arrangements effective communication and interaction The Group has an established control for the regulations we are required to with management.
The Audit Committee framework as described on page 31. change our audit firm for the 2022 year end discussed the output with Deloitte who The framework is designed to manage but audit.
Absent any major service or quality acknowledged that improvements could not eliminate risks and is designed to provide issues, the desirability of a change of auditor be made.
Thereafter, Deloitte wrote to the reasonable but not absolute assurance is a delicate balance between a fresh pair of Committee detailing the actions and timeline against material losses or misstatements.
eyes and accumulated knowledge applied to address the points raised, particularly in The Group is expanding and this adds to to produce a robust audit.
The Committee respect of communication and interaction, complexity and risk.
is satisfied that David Barnes has the to improve their service delivery.
experience and industry knowledge to be The Boards responsibilities for the In addition to the annual evaluation, an effective lead audit partner and do not management of risk are addressed further in the Committee undertakes an ongoing propose to undertake an early audit tender the report of the Risk Committee.
assessment of external audit quality and process.
David Barnes term as lead audit effectiveness in the following ways: partner is due to end with the completion The Committee negotiates and agrees of the 2020 year end audit.
The Committee the scope of the audit prior to its intends that the audit will be tendered commencement.
The full scope audit and rotated to another firm of auditors at coverage amounted to 93% 2015: 96% that time.
These plans will be kept under of the Groups profit before tax and annual review and, if legislation changes, 98% 2015: 94% of the Groups net or there are any concerns as to Deloittes assets.
Specific review procedures independence or the quality of their audit or were performed on another nine non the service levels, the audit tender might be significant entities undertaken sooner.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee reviewed and was We have discussed the accuracy of In accordance with relevant independence satisfied with the content of Deloittes financial reporting known as materiality standards, the External Auditors do not Audit Transparency Report for the with Deloitte both as regards accounting place reliance on the work of Internal Audit.
year ended 31 May 2015 which sets out errors that will be brought to the Audit Deloittes commitment to audit quality Committees attention and as regards NON AUDIT SERVICES and governance amounts that would need to be adjusted so The Board has an established policy that the financial statements give a true and The Audit Quality Review team of the setting out what non audit services can fair view.
Errors can arise for many reasons Financial Reporting Council performs be purchased from the firm appointed as ranging from deliberate errors fraud etc.
an annual review of Deloittes audits.
The Committee regularly to good estimates that were made at a The Committee requested a letter monitors non audit services being provided point in time that, with the benefit of more from Deloitte on whether any generally to the Group by Deloitte to ensure there time, could have been more accurately identified failings or failings specific to is no impairment to their independence measured.
Overall audit materiality was set individual audits could be relevant to the or objectivity.
This equates audit of the Group.
We were satisfied, in place to ensure that all significant non to approximately 1% of net assets.
A lower insofar as the issues might be applicable, audit work performed by the auditor in materiality of 3.7m 2015: 4.4m has been that Deloitte had proper and adequate excess of 50,000 is approved in advance applied for fund management revenues.
procedures in place for our audit by the Committee.
Engagements are only This is within the range that audit opinions approved if they do not and will not impair, The Committee enters into a formal are conventionally thought to be reliable.
or appear to impair, the auditors judgement engagement with the auditor, negotiates The auditors use the overall materiality to or independence.
The procedures set out and agrees its audit fee determine which group entities require full the categories of non audit services which The Committee Chairman has at least scope audits or specific audit procedures the external auditor is and is not allowed to bi-monthly meetings with the lead audit to be performed in order to confirm provide to the Group, including those which partner to discuss Group developments that the financial statements are free of are pre-approved by the Committee and material misstatement.
Further details can The Committee receives at every those which require specific approval before be found in the Auditors Report on page Audit Committee meeting an update they are contracted for, subject to fide minimis 103.
To manage the risk that aggregate of Deloittes work, compliance with levels.
A copy of the policy can be found uncorrected errors become material, we independence and its findings on the Groups website www.
agreed that Deloitte would draw to the The policy prohibits the external auditor There was a detailed interview by the Audit Committees attention to all identified from being a contractor to perform the Audit Committee Chairman, the Chief uncorrected misstatements greater than following work: Financial Officer and the Group Financial 244,000 2015: 288,000 and for Controller of the audit partner and Book-keeping and other services fund management revenues 72,000 director focusing on the work undertaken related to accounting records and 2015: 88,000. to support their opinion on the financial financial statements The aggregated net difference between statements and the consistency of the Internal audit services the reported pre-tax profit and the remainder of the report and accounts with Financial information system design auditors judgement of pre-tax profit was their work.
In addition, the Committee 0.1m, which was significantly less than and implementation received an oral report from the subsidiary audit materiality.
The gross differences audit partner in Jersey at the conclusion of Actuarial services were attributable to various individual the local audit Management functions components of the income statement.
The Committee reviewed and discussed Valuation services No audit difference was qualitatively or the audit findings including audit quantitatively material to any line item in Legal services differences prior to the approval of the either the income statement or the balance financial statements sheet.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee did not require any adjustment to be made to the financial statements as result of the audit differences reported by the auditor.
58 59 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Legislation will introduce restrictions on the 13 reviews were completed, responded to AUDITOR REAPPOINTMENT provision of non audit services plus a 70% by management and reviewed by the Audit Deloitte has reviewed its and its relevant cap on the provision of permissible non audit Committee.
The Committee pays particular affiliates own independence in line with services based on the average of the attention to remedial actions and timescales its internal criteria and ethical standards.
statutory audit fees for the previous three and deadlines that are not achieved.
They have confirmed to the Committee years.
The restrictions on non audit services Throughout the year, the Committee that following the review, they are satisfied are effective for our financial year beginning that they have acted in accordance with monitored the development of internal audit 1 April 2017 and we understand that the reports, commenting specifically on scopes relevant regulatory and professional 70% cap will be implemented prospectively of reviews.
Reports have been tailored requirements.
Deloitte has also confirmed and will first apply for our financial year to the Groups risks, focusing on areas of to us that the audit complies with their beginning 1 April 2020.
Tax advisory internal independent review procedures.
concern and future indicators of risk whilst services are prohibited from being at the same time highlighting opportunities Last years audit was not subject to undertaken by the external auditors under to streamline processes.
These reports have either an independent quality assurance these new rules.
As a result the Group will been further enhanced by the development process undertaken internally by Deloitte replace Deloitte as its corporate tax advisers or externally by the FRC.
If this years of a common risk language by the CRO.
in the current financial year.
This process audit is selected by either process, we will The Committee has overseen the is already underway with the appointment seek assurances that recommendations establishment of an effective working of  for some tax for improvements are embraced by the relationship between the Head of Internal advisory work.
By ensuring that the During the year the Group paid 0.4m The Committee, having considered roles are coordinated and optimised it 2015: 0.4m to Deloitte LLP for the reduces the potential for significant gaps compliance with our policies on provision of corporate non audit services in oversight and avoids unnecessary independence and the findings of our which is within the 70% audit fees legal duplication of efforts.
The Committee is quality review and service enquiries, is limit that will apply over a rolling three satisfied that Deloitte has demonstrated satisfied that Internal Audit is independent year period.
Of this, 0.1m is in respect of of the first and second lines of defence.
the skills and service standards to justify a services in their capacity as auditor and 0.3m During the year the Head of Internal Audit recommendation to shareholders for their of fees were incurred for tax compliance and and the CRO have worked together on reappointment as auditors for the year advisory services not related to the audit ending 31 March 2017.
Accordingly a motion improving reporting on the effectiveness of the financial statements.
All non audit of internal controls to meet the revised to that effect will be put to the 2016 AGM.
services were approved by the Committee.
requirements of the UK Corporate Deloitte also provides services to funds that Governance Code.
INTERNAL AUDIT are managed by the Group but over which The Group has a Head of Internal Audit who it does not exercise control.
Deloitte is a INTERNAL AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS draws on the services of our outsourced leading market participant in the non audit The Committee has assessed the quality internal audit providers, KPMG and RSM sector, having a reputation for quality, and of the Internal Audit function, taking into to supplement her capacity.
The Head having a local presence in the countries of Internal Audit reports to the Audit consideration that this was the first complete in which the services were performed.
The Audit Committee year of operation.
The assessment focused Audit objectivity and independence was on ensuring that the internal audit service approves the annual internal audit plan safeguarded by all advice being provided by provided met the requirements of the and the Internal Audit charter.
The scope partners and staff that have no involvement Committee as to scope and objectivity.
of internal audit is not restricted and the in the audit of the financial statements.
plan is developed from a consideration of The assessment was based on the results Advice was not dependent on a particular of questionnaires completed by the the principal risks to the Group and, given accounting treatment and the outcome or Committee members and the Executive the recent establishment of the function, consequences of the advice did not have Directors and was supported by feedback the coverage of the Group as a whole.
a material effect on the Groups financial Its development reflects the priorities of from other relevant senior management.
No services were provided Having completed the review, and discussed management, the CRO, our regulators and pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
its findings with the Head of Internal Audit, the Audit Committee.
Internal audit retains A detailed analysis of fees paid to Deloitte the Committee was content with the work sufficient flexibility to embrace intra-year LLP is shown in note 11 on page 143. changes, such as the establishment of new of Internal Audit whilst seeking more commercially orientated recommendations.
investment strategies or changes to the principal risks of the Group.
