ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER The focus of the Nominations Committee is to consider the skills and experience of the Board, with particular regard to regulation in the financial services sector.
This was particularly important this year as I, a Non Executive Director since 2006 and Chairman WE FOCUS ON THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD AND since July 2010, informed the Board of my intention to retire from the Board in light THE SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE OF ITS MEMBERS.
While I was involved ENSURES THAT THE BOARD HAS THE NECESSARY in the process to consider a replacement KNOWLEDGE AND BROAD MARKET AWARENESS TO MEET Chairman, as a matter of good practice the Committee was chaired by Peter Gibbs THE CHALLENGES FACED BY THE GROUP.
during its deliberations in respect of the JUSTIN DOWLEY appointment.
The Committee considered a CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE number of candidates, including Kevin Parry, the Senior Independent Director.
Kevin was not present at any deliberations relating to his potential appointment.
When considering Board appointments, our priority is to identify a person who fits with the culture and management style of the Company and ensure that the right person is appointed to the role regardless of background, while bearing in mind the advantages of diversity at the level of the Board.
After considering a number of potential candidates for appointment as Chairman, it was proposed that Kevin Parry be recommended.
His existing knowledge of the Group and its business is invaluable, and far greater than that of any other candidate.
In addition, Kevin scored very highly in the benchmarking process due to his considerable experience in the financial services sector, his understanding of applicable regulations, his extensive service on other PLC boards and his background as an accountant: the Committee concluded that he is an excellent candidate to act as Chairman.
The following pages set out the Nominations Committee report for the financial year 2016.
The report is structured in two parts: 1.
Committee Governance: roles and responsibilities, composition and effectiveness 2. Review of the year: the significant issues we addressed 66 67 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Kevins nomination as Chairman is subject Appointments of Executive Directors GOVERNANCE OF NOMINATIONS to his reappointment as a Director of the and Non Executive Directors are made as ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Company at the AGM on 21 July 2016. necessary as a result of discussions by the Prior to any appointment to the Board, the If approved, he will take up the role from Committee and are subject to full Board Nominations Committee considers the the end of that meeting.
As the Chairman approval and election or re-election at a balance of skills, experience, independence of the Company cannot serve on the Audit General Meeting of the shareholders.
and knowledge appropriate to determine Committee, Kevin will step down from the requirements and necessary capabilities that Committee of which he is currently TERMS OF REFERENCE of the role.
In addition, any new Director Chairman.
His replacement will be The Committees terms of reference are normally meets all existing Directors appointed and announced in due course.
approved and reviewed by the Board on a prior to appointment.
The Committee Apart from the process of appointing a new regular basis, most recently in January 2016. is responsible for: Chairman and a Non Executive Director, the The terms of reference are available on the Identifying, and nominating for the main focus of the Committee during the year Companys website or by contacting the Boards approval, candidates to fill any was on reviewing the size, structure and Company Secretary.
Board vacancies composition of the Board and considering succession planning.
The Committee also EFFECTIVENESS Succession planning, including the reviewed the time commitments of Non progressive refreshing of the Board An evaluation of the Committees Executive Directors and concluded that each effectiveness was undertaken by the Ensuring that all appointments to of them is able to devote sufficient time to Committee Chairman in April 2015. the Board are made on objective their role.
criteria and that candidates have The responses were shared with the Committee and it was concluded that the sufficient time to devote to their THE YEAR AHEAD Committee continues to operate effectively.
prospective responsibilities The Committees focus during the year will The review concluded that the current Board Regularly reviewing the appropriateness be on considering the balance of skills and had an appropriate mix of skills, but may be of the size, structure and composition of experience of Directors, and reviewing the enhanced by broader geographic and asset the Board structure and composition of the Board class experience.
These factors have been Considering the composition of the in general.
important considerations for the Committee Board to ensure that the balance of in the search for new Directors.
If any shareholder has questions on the its membership between Executive work of the Committee, I am very happy to Directors and Non Executive Directors This evaluation was updated by the respond to these at the Companys AGM or is appropriate Committee Chairman in March 2016 ahead at any other time.
of the formal external review of the Groups COMPOSITION Board and Committees to be held later in this financial year.
It was agreed that the The Nominations Committee consists of five Justin Dowley Non Executive Directors, these being Justin Committee continues to operate effectively: Chairman of the Nominations Committee however, to enhance the proceedings of the Dowley Chairman of the Committee, Kevin 23 May 2016 Committee, the number of regular meetings Parry, Peter Gibbs, Kim Wahl and Kathryn will be increased and a more formal rolling Purves.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
From the end agenda will be implemented.
of the Companys AGM on 21 July 2016, Justin Dowley will retire from the Company and Kevin Parry will become Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
It is anticipated that any Non Executives appointed during the year would join the Committee.
Biographical details can be found on pages 42 to 43 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED the Company: further, even if they were able members, and will recommend a further REVIEW OF THE YEAR to do so over the long term, there was a risk appointment if necessary.
APPOINTMENT OF A of disruption to the smooth operation of the NEW CHAIRMAN Board if it took time for the appointee to gain SUCCESSION PLANNING Once the Chairman indicated his intention to the necessary knowledge of the business.
During the year, the Committee considered retire to other members of the Committee, The Committee therefore concluded that Non Executive succession as detailed the Committee met to discuss their initial it should recommend that Kevin Parry be elsewhere in this report.
At that meeting Kevin Parry offered the role of Chairman, subject to an extensive report provided by the Chief indicated his interest in being considered reappointment by shareholders at the AGM Executive Officer with input from the as a candidate and therefore suggested in July 2016. other Executive Directors on executive he should not take any further part in the A number of larger shareholders were succession, covering several tiers of meeting.
From that point forward, all matters contacted by Peter Gibbs just prior to the management.
The report considered relating to the Chairman search were led announcement of the proposed change potential successors in key positions, gave by Peter Gibbs as acting Chairman of the of Chairman to make them aware of details of the proposed approach for those Committee.
Neither Justin Dowley nor Kevin the decision.
persons who do not have possible internal Parry took part in those deliberations.
successors and discussed how talented Subsequent to the above recommendation, The Committee approved a job description individuals can be identified early in their the Committee including Justin Dowley for the Chairmans role and appointed a careers and given an appropriate career and Kevin Parry noted that there would be leading recruitment agency to search for track.
Following the presentation of this a need for different Directors to act in the available candidates.
The agency conducted report, the Committee agreed that there roles of Senior Independent Director and extensive research and provided a number are no material concerns in respect of Chairman of the Audit Committee as these of CVs for potential appointees.
cannot be carried out by the Chairman.
It was provided were reviewed and benchmarked recommended that, given his extensive by the Committee, and compared with the DIVERSITY service on boards of other companies and CV of Kevin Parry.
The Head of Human his background in the asset management The Committee has a standing policy on Resources had conducted a detailed sector, Peter Gibbs be appointed as Senior the background and diversity of Board review of the CVs and competencies of Independent Director.
The policy provides that, prior all candidates, and awarded a score to will seek to appoint a new Non Executive to any appointment to the Board, the each candidate on key criteria relevant Director to join the Board during the coming Nominations Committee considers the asset management experience, relevant months: on appointment, this Non Executive balance of skills, experience, independence experience as a director of other PLC will act as Chairman of the Audit Committee and knowledge appropriate to the role.
boards, governance and regulatory and so the skill set for that role will be a key In considering candidates, appointments knowledge, and understanding of the requirement of the search.
are made with regard to a number of Company.
The Committee received this different criteria, including diversity of report and noted that Kevin Parry had SIZE, STRUCTURE AND gender, background and personal attributes, received the highest score in this process: COMPOSTION OF THE BOARD alongside the appropriate skills, experience his prior experience and in particular his and expertise.
The Committee seeks to The Committee intends to keep the size, audit experience placed him above other ensure that long lists and short lists of structure and composition of the Board candidates in this exercise.
possible appointments to the Board reflect under review during the year, particularly The Committee then formally considered that position.
The Committee will always in the light of the appointment of a new Kevin Parrys suitability for the role.
seek to appoint the candidate with the most Chairman and Non Executive Director to He has considerable existing knowledge appropriate skills and experience regardless act as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
of the Company and its business: he has of their background, gender, race, marital While the new appointments enhance the served as a Non Executive Director of the status, age, disability, religious belief or ability of the Board to meet regulatory Company since 2009.
He has good relations sexual orientation.
The Committee and the demands and provide more audit specific with management and is well known to Board are committed to diversity both at experience, the Committee is keen to ensure shareholders, who have always been very Board level and throughout the organisation.
that the overall skill set of the Board is not supportive of resolutions to re-elect him.
The Committee is supportive of increased detrimentally altered by the retirement of He also sits on, or has sat on, the boards Justin Dowley.
As the outgoing Chairman gender diversity at Board level, but of a number of other listed entities and has recognises that it may not always be in the has considerable experience both from his a very wide knowledge of UK corporate best interest of shareholders to prioritise executive career in investment banking and governance matters.
While there were a this above other factors.
The Committee his numerous roles as a non executive, the number of other good candidates available, Committee will monitor the balance of the will consider gender diversity, along with all it was not possible to tell whether they would other relevant factors, when making future Board to ensure that this valuable insight and be able to match Kevin Parrys skill set, recommendations to the Board.
expertise is still available from the existing especially in terms of his understanding of
