Justin Lockwood 1 Chairman, age 57 Chief Financial Officer, age 47 Length of service: 2 years and 2 months Length of service: appointed to the Board Appointments and qualifications: Dan on 23 February 2017 was previously a non-executive director of CRH plc and Chairman of Allied Irish Banks Appointments and qualifications: Justin plc from July 2009 to October 2010.
In was the Companys Group Head of addition, Dan spent 10 years as CEO of GE Finance for seven years before being Consumer Finance Europe and was Senior appointed as a Chief Financial Officer.
He Vice President of General Electric.
He was previously held senior finance roles at also a non-executive director of one of Associated British Ports and Marshalls plc Turkeys largest banks, Garanti Bank.
Dan is having spent the first 10 years of his career a fellow of the Institute of Chartered working for PwC in the UK and Australia.
He Accountants in Ireland and has a Masters is a member of the Institute of Chartered Degree in Accounting.
He is a nonAccountants and graduated from the executive director of Glanbia plc and University of Cardiff with a degree in Activate Capital Ltd. 2 Business Administration.
Key strengths and contributions: Dan has Key strengths and contributions: Justin over 30 years experience in large has over 15 years experience in a variety international and financial services of senior financial management roles and businesses and provides strong strategic has a detailed understanding of the leadership in his role as Chairman.
Groups businesses and its markets.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer, age 52 Senior independent non-executive director, Length of service: 5 years and 1 month age 68 Length of service: 9 years and 7 months Appointments and qualifications: Gerard was previously CEO for Citigroups Appointments and qualifications: Tony consumer finance businesses in the was previously Chairman of Canal & River 3 Western Europe, Middle East and Africa Trust, Chief Executive of Allied Domecq plc, region.
He was a director of Citi Chairman of Workspace Group plc and International plc, Egg plc and Morgan NAAFI, and a non-executive director of Stanley Smith Barney UK.
Earlier in his Provident Financial plc, Welsh Water plc, career, Gerard was CFO of Garanti Bank, Aston Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc and Turkey and CEO of GE Money Bank, Reliance Security Group plc.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of in Chemistry from the University of Bristol Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
and is currently Chairman of the Greenwich Foundation, a non-executive Key strengths and contributions: director of Capital & Regional plc and a Gerard has over 25 years multi-country board member of The Services Sound and experience in consumer financial Vision Corporation.
He is also a director of services and provides the Company Welsh National Opera Limited and chairs with strong leadership.
Key strengths and contributions: Tony has strong business expertise, having been a 4 chairman and non-executive director in profit and non-profit sectors.
He has extensive knowledge of our business as well as having chaired and been a member of various committees since appointment.
Committee membership key Audit and Risk Committee Disclosure Committee Executive Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Technology Committee 46 Corporate Governance 5.
John Mangelaars 5 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, age 59 director, age 52 Length of service: 1 year and 8 months Length of service: 1 year and 7 months Appointments and qualifications: Jayne Appointments and qualifications: John set up equity release firm Stonehaven and worked previously for Microsoft for over 20 was CEO and then Executive Chairman years specialising, in more recent years, until 2014.
She has previously been in the sales and marketing of online Managing Director of Barclays Home products, MSN Messenger, Hotmail and Finance business, Group Marketing Bing.
He graduated from the Higher School Director and Strategy Director at Lloyds TSB, of Economics in The Hague with a Bachelor Managing Director of Lloyds TSBs in Information and Communication European Internet banking business and a Technology B ICT and is currently the CEO senior partner at LEK Consulting.
Jayne of online travel agency Travix International.
graduated in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from the University of Oxford.
Key strengths and contributions: John 6 She is currently on the Council of Oxford has considerable experience in sales and University and Chair of its Audit and e-commerce, which will support expansion Scrutiny Committee.
She is also the Chair of our digital lending business and the of One Family Lifetime Mortgages Ltd and Companys objective to increase its Butterfield Mortgages Ltd. technology capabilities.
Key strengths and contributions: Jayne has over 20 years experience in financial 8.
Cathryn Riley services and is an experienced nonIndependent non-executive executive director.
She has a strong director, age 54 background in consumer finance, marketing and strategy.
Length of service: 3 years Appointments and qualifications: 6.
Richard Moat Previously, Cathryn was Group Chief Operations Officer at Aviva plc.
Other Independent non-executive roles with Aviva included Group CIO, UK director, age 62 Commercial Director, COO and Customer 7 Experience Director of UK Life, plus she Length of service: 4 years and 8 months was chair of Aviva Healthcare UK Ltd, Aviva Appointments and qualifications: Richard Global Services and Hill House Hammond.
was previously Deputy CEO and CFO of Her other roles included GM of Everything Everywhere Limited, the UKs Transformation at BUPA and a principal largest mobile telecoms company.
He was consultant in the financial services division Managing Director of T-Mobile UK Limited at Coopers & Lybrand.
She has an MA in and Chief Executive of Orange Romania Manpower Studies, completed CeDEPs SA, Orange Denmark A S and Orange General Management Programme, was a Thailand Limited.
He was previously Chair graduate of the Institute of Personnel HR of the ACCA Accountants for Business Management and is currently a nonGlobal Forum and Trustee of the Peter executive director of ACE European Group Jones Foundation.
He holds a Diploma in Ltd, ACE Underwriting Agencies Ltd, The Corporate Finance and Accounting from Equitable Life Assurance Society and London Business School and has a Chubb Insurance Company of Europe SE Masters Honours Degree in Law from as well as Chair of AA Insurance StCatharines College, Cambridge.
Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
He is currently Chief Key strengths and contributions: Cathryn Executive Officer of Eir Limited, and an has over 20 years experience in insurance advisory board member of Tiaxa, Inc. Chile.
and financial services, together with international roles.
She is an experienced Key strengths and contributions: Richard non-executive director, having sat on the has more than 20 years international board of The Equitable Life Assurance telecoms experience in senior Society since 2009 and also chairs its management roles and provides financial Remuneration Committee.
She brings and operational expertise along with a wealth of experience in major IT international experience.
transformation programmes, implementing new distribution channels and customer service.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 47
