Audit and Risk Committee report The Committee closely monitored the significant regulatory and taxation developments, and promoted improvements in our management of the threat of cyber-attack.
For insights into our risk Richard Moat management Committee Chairman process see pages 36-43 Dear shareholder Audit and Risk Committee Committee members The Committee focused its attention composition % Richard Moat Chairman throughout 2016 on regulatory challenges, and independent information security and business 100 non-executive director continuity planning, and the Jayne Almond Independent enhancement of the financial control non-executive director environment for IPF Digital.
The Committee Tony Hales Senior independent encouraged the continuing improvement non-executive director of the capabilities and connectivity of the risk management process across the business, with emphasis on its ability to identify and assess emerging risk.
2017 will see a continuing close focus by us on the management of regulatory risk particularly Independent non-executive directors in our European markets.
2016 objectives 2016 progress 2017 objectives Review the approach for implementing An early approach to the implementation Review the approach to delivering IFRS 9 accounting requirements.
of IFRS 9 was agreed, progress was efficiency and optimising the value followed closely during the year and will generated by our home credit business Review progress in enhancing the be reviewed by Internal Audit during 2017. through agent mobile technology.
control environment for IPF Digital and the management of new market The transformation of IPF Digitals Monitor developments in respect of entry processes.
financial control environment was appeals made against the 2008 and monitored closely.
New market entry 2009 Polish tax audit decisions and the Review systems for customer service processes were audited internally status of the open audit of 2010. and complaints management.
and recommendations for Approve the Groups technical accounting Review the organisations approach to improvement made.
approach to the implementation of IFRS 9 implementing new products and sales The approach to managing legal and review progress on the broader delivery channels.
compliance risk and the evolution of implementation plan.
Continue development of structures in the compliance framework across the Evaluate the design of our cyber place to ensure vigilant monitoring of Group was monitored closely.
security controls which preserve the legal and regulatory developments.
The Operational Governance confidentiality, integrity and availability Framework extended to include future of the Groups information and legal and regulatory developments.
Evaluated the drivers of growth within Further consideration of the continuing the Mexico home credit business.
approach to modernising the business through technology with specific Audited the systems for managing reference to the implementation of a customer service and complaints unified digital loan platform.
together with the management of the broadening product portfolio and Assess the adequacy of actions taken recommendations made.
to deliver sustainable growth in Mexico.
Monitored developments relating to the Review actions taken to improve cost 2008 and 2009 Polish tax audits.
52 Corporate Governance Overview Case study: Information Role security protecting our The objective of the Committee is to oversee the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk customers data management procedures as described on pages 36 to Throughout the year the Committee requested and 37, together with the work performed by the external received briefings from management on auditor and the internal audit function.
The Committees arrangements relating to information security.
The terms of reference are available on our website.
Its main Committee maintains a strong awareness of cyber responsibilities are to: threats and incidents and encourages management monitor the Groups systems of internal control, to learn from the experience of other organisations including financial, operational and compliance and partners, and to conduct regular cyber incident controls and risk management systems, and to perform rehearsals to minimise the potential for harm and an annual review of their effectiveness: service disruption for customers.
Supported by an external partner, a rehearsal was undertaken which monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the included a simulated cyber-attack with a hostage Company and the formal announcements relating to theme and involved teams across the Group.
the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained Drawing directly on the Audit and Risk Committees in them: experience, the Group also finalised the provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual implementation of an information security Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are management framework based on ISOs 27001 and fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the 22301 along with a suite of protective technical information necessary for shareholders to assess the measures that are monitored from head office and Groups position and performance, business model by external partners.
The Committee received reports and strategy: on the results of this monitoring and sought additional clarification directly from management make recommendations to the Board, for the Board to as necessary.
put to shareholders in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve its terms of appointment: management being present, to discuss the external audit process.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the review and monitor the objectivity and independence Chairman of the Committee, which ensures his of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the independence from the management and operation of external audit process, taking into consideration the business.
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: review and approve the internal audit programme for the year and monitor the effectiveness of the internal Activities in 2016 audit function in the delivery of its plan: and Meetings keep under review the Group Schedule of Key Risks The Committee met six times during the year, twice to and consider the principal risks which are described consider risk and four times to consider audit-related on pages 37 to 43 facing the Group and matters.
Attendance at meetings can be found their mitigation.
Composition Financial reporting The Committee comprises three independent nonThe Committee reviewed and considered the following executive directors and is chaired by Richard Moat, a areas in respect of financial reporting and the Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified preparation of the half-year and full-year Accountants, and who has relevant and recent Financial Statements: experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The other non-executive the appropriateness of accounting policies used: directors are Jayne Almond who has over 20 years compliance with external and internal financial experience in financial services and Tony Hales who has reporting standards and policies: strong business expertise and extensive knowledge of our significant judgements made by management: Group.
The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, the Chief disclosures and presentations: and Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Interim Chief Financial Officer from September 2016 to February whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 and the Head of Internal Audit are invited to attend are clear, concise, fair, balanced and understandable.
Periodically, senior management from across the Group are invited to present on specific In carrying this out, the Committee considered the work aspects of the business.
The Committee also meets from and recommendations of management.
In addition, the time to time with the external auditor, without an Committee received reports from the external auditor executive director or member of the Groups senior setting out its view on the accounting treatments and International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 53 Audit and Risk Committee report continued judgements underpinning the Financial Statements.
The Board then formally considers the Schedule on a sixsignificant judgements considered by the Committee were: monthly basis and approves risk appetite annually.
The internal control environments in place to mitigate the Impairment of receivables: the key area of judgement impact of each risk are monitored by the Committee on a in respect of impairment provisions made against regular basis, as are the principal actions being taken to customer receivables in the home credit division and in improve them.
The Committee requests additional IPF Digital is the predictive accuracy of statistical presentations on key business areas as necessary to models used to estimate future customer default rates supplement its understanding of control environments in and expected future timing of cash flows in respect of place.
The areas covered by these in 2016 are referred to in each portfolio.
At both the half-year and full-year results, the Training section on page 56.
The internal controls in the Committee considered a paper prepared by relation to the preparation of consolidated Financial management summarising the work performed to test Statements are outlined on page 67. the continued predictive capacity of these statistical models and to update them where appropriate.
The In particular, the Committee monitored legal and external auditor performed audit procedures on regulatory compliance risk and developing tax issues.
impairment provisioning and reported its findings to Specifically, the Committee focused on the progress of the the Committee.
Polish tax audits during 2016, and received, reviewed and challenged regular updates from management including Revenue recognition: the judgement in respect of an assessment of the Groups position from external revenue recognition is the methodology used to legal advisors.
calculate the effective interest rate.
The external auditor performed procedures to assess managements The Board as a whole monitored developments relating to calculations and assumptions used to calculate the the draft bill published by the Polish Ministry of Justice effective interest rate and reported its findings to which amongst other details proposes a significant the Committee.
reduction to the cap on non-interests costs that may be Provision for uncertain tax positions: IPF operates in charged by lenders in connection with a consumer loan multiple jurisdictions where the taxation treatment of agreement that became effective in March 2016.
The transactions is not always certain and, therefore, Committee will make this a focus for 2017. management is required to make judgements, based The Committee also increased its oversight of cyber-risks on internal expertise and external advice, on the and continued to monitor the enhancement of the control methodology to be adopted for accounting for environment at IPF Digital.
uncertain tax positions including the adverse decision received in early 2017 relating to two tax audits in The Committee is supported in its work by the Risk Advisory Poland.
The external auditor performed procedures to Group, which in 2016 comprised the Chief Executive Officer, assess managements judgements and reported its Chief Financial Officer to September 2016, the Interim findings to the Committee.
Chief Financial Officer from September 2016 and Group Legal Director, together with other members of the senior Deferred tax accounting: the key area of judgement leadership team.
The Risk Advisory Group meets four times in respect of IPFs deferred tax assets, which arise a year.
It reports to the Audit and Risk Committee and largely from timing differences between the accounting considers the risk assessments and risk registers produced and tax treatments of revenue and impairment in each country, and updates the Group Schedule of Key transactions, is the extent to which the timing Risks.
It also considers areas of specific risk and differences will reverse and a tax deduction will be particular issues.
The external auditor performed procedures to assess whether the The Committee has assessed the effectiveness of internal recognition of the deferred tax asset is appropriate and audit and satisfied itself that the quality, experience and reported its findings to the Committee.
expertise of the function is appropriate for the business.
Regulation: the business is subject to regulatory The Committee provides oversight and direction to the scrutiny in multiple jurisdictions and at times it is internal audit plan to ensure that it provides independent appropriate to make provision for potentially adverse assurance over the integrity of internal controls and the rulings by regulatory authorities.
The Committee operational governance framework.
In addition, the received reports from the Group Legal Team outlining external auditor, communicates to the Committee any the various regulatory and other similar issues and control deficiencies in the internal control environment it managements approach.
observes as part of its audit procedures.
During the year, Deloitte did not highlight any material control weaknesses.
Internal control and risk management While the Board is responsible for the Groups systems of Internal audit internal control, including risk management, the review of A firm basis for the opinion on the Groups system of its effectiveness is delegated to the Committee.
It is internal control was provided by the Head of Internal Audit.
recognised that any system can provide only reasonable PwC and KPMG were engaged to support specific and not absolute assurance against material thematic audits where specialist technical knowledge misstatement or loss.
The Committee reviews and was required.
approves the Group Schedule of Key Risks which describes the principal risks facing the business.
The 54 Corporate Governance Significant internal audits in 2016 were performed in the following areas: Basic assurance Thematic audits Branch level reviews: Group-wide: covering one-fifth of branches Delivery of growth plans within the Mexico home credit business and IPF Digital.
Management of administration, operational, financial and loss Management of new market entry processes within IPF Digital.
prevention oversight processes in home credit branches.
Legal compliance in all businesses and efforts made to anticipate legal and regulatory developments.
Head office audits: Management of financial reporting risk within IPF Digital.
Management of the branch administration and quality control processes.
The development and implementation of our MyProvi agent mobile technology solution.
Groups ability to be aware of and respond to changes in market conditions.
Controls in place to manage the increasing complexity of our broadening product range.
Management of credit and subsequent collections risk.
Implementation of a customer relationship management Management oversight of the effectiveness of the framework CRM system in the Mexico home credit business.
Group core controls in respect of customer service and Management of change risk.
During 2016, a series of planned internal audits see table In order to confirm its independence, the external auditor above was undertaken in markets and head office issued a formal statement of independence to the environments.
These were split between basic assurance Committee.
In addition, the Committee ensured audits, covering core controls across the business as compliance with the Groups policy on the use of the defined in the Group Schedule of Key Risks, and thematic external auditor for non-audit work.
The key requirements audits providing a deeper review of the mitigation of the of this policy are: specific principal risks facing the Group.
the external auditor may not undertake certain The Committee tracks the resolution of findings and prohibited services including internal audit, information recommendations raised in internal audit reports.
technology, remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general management consultancy: The Internal Audit function has continued to monitor the the internal audit function must approve all non-audit effectiveness of the overall operational governance and services: and oversight structure throughout 2016. the Committee Chairman must approve any individual non-audit service over a specific fee level.
External auditor effectiveness and independence The Committee considered the external auditors The Committee believes that the Group receives a assessment of the significant risks in the Groups Financial particular benefit from certain non-audit services where a Statements set out in its audit plan and approved the detailed knowledge of its operations are important or scope of the external audit that addressed these risks.
where the auditor has very specific skills and experience.
The Committee considered these risks and the However, other large accountancy practices are also associated work undertaken by the external auditor when used to provide services where appropriate.
During the forming its judgement on the Financial Statements.
year, the non-audit services carried out by Deloitte LLP The Committee monitored the effectiveness and conduct were as follows.
of the external auditor by reviewing the: Fee Non-audit services carried out by Deloitte in 2016 000 experience and capabilities of the auditor and the Taxation compliance services 51 calibre of the audit firm: Other assurance services 40 delivery of its audit work in accordance with the Total 91 agreed plan: and quality of its report and communications to the Committee.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 55 Audit and Risk Committee report continued This training was complemented by a visit to the Groups Audit tendering and auditor rotation businesses in Mexico and Poland, both of which included The Companys policy is to undertake a formal tendering visits to branches and discussions with the exercise of the audit contract at least once every ten management teams.
Following a tender process, Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since 2011.
The Company will be Review of the effectiveness of the systems of required to rotate the audit for the financial year ended internal control 2021, and plans to complete a competitive tender process by this time.
In addition the Committee will On behalf of the Board, the Committee has monitored continue to consider the auditors performance on an the Groups systems of internal control and its processes annual basis.
Having undertaken its review for this year, in for managing principal risks throughout 2016 and the opinion of the Audit Committee, the relationship with performed a formal assessment of their effectiveness.
In the auditor works well and the Committee remains addition, the Committee, where appropriate, ensures that satisfied with their independence and effectiveness.
The necessary actions have been or are being taken to Committee has, therefore, at its February 2017 meeting, remedy identified failings or weaknesses in the internal recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be controls framework.
These processes for identifying, reappointed as auditor at the 2017 Annual evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by General Meeting.
the Group were in place throughout 2016 and up to 1 March 2017.
The Committee has also undertaken a Deloitte LLP has now been external auditor for over five review of its own effectiveness among its members, years and during this time the audit engagement partner executive director, management and external advisors has been Stephen Williams.
The APB Ethical Standard 3 and concluded that it continues to be effective.
Revised Long Association With The Audit Engagement requires the audit engagement partner to rotate after five years, unless the Committee decides that a degree of Annual Report and Financial Statements flexibility is necessary to safeguard the quality of the audit The Committee has reviewed and considered the Annual and the audit firm agrees, at which point the audit Report and Financial Statements, in line with other engagement partner may continue in this position for an information the Committee has considered throughout additional period of up to two years.
Last year, the the course of the year.
It concluded and recommended Committee considered the rotation of the audit to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial engagement partner and requested on the grounds of Statements 2016, taken as a whole, are concise, forwardaudit quality for Stephen Williams to lead the audit for a looking, fair, balanced and understandable and provide sixth time in 2016 before rotating to a suitably the information necessary for shareholders to assess the experienced partner at the AGM in 2017.
It remains the Groups position and performance, business model intention to rotate the audit engagement partner role and strategy.
from Stephen Williams to a suitably experienced partner, Peter Birch, with effect from the 2017 AGM.
The Company has complied during the year ended 31 December 2016, and up to the date of this report, with Richard Moat the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Chairman Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Training The Committee undertook a significant amount of training during 2016.
This included presentations on the following key business areas: managing credit risk within IPF Digital: managing compliance risk: fraud prevention and detection measures within the organisation: business continuity including the improvements made to enhance disaster recovery capabilities: implementing IFRS 9: information security and the approach to addressing the ever increasing cyber-security risk: and managing financial reporting risk within IPF Digital.
