Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee has focused on the search for a new Chief Financial Officer and Senior Independent Director in 2016.
Dan OConnor Committee Chairman For Board statistics see page 45 Dear shareholder Committee members There were two departures from our Board in 2016.
In the first quarter, David Broadbent, our Chief Commercial Officer, resigned Dan OConnor Chairman from the Board and left the business and in September 2016, Tony Hales Senior independent non-executive director Adrian Gardner, our Chief Financial Officer, resigned from the John Mangelaars Independent non-executive director Board in order to pursue an alternative business opportunity.
We Cathryn Riley Independent non-executive director also needed to consider the succession plan for Tony Hales, our Gerard Ryan Executive director and Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director as, by the time of this years AGM, it will be nine years since Tony was first elected as a non-executive director by shareholders.
The Committee has recommended to Nomination Committee composition % the Board that Tony continues as a director through to our AGM in 2018 and Tony has agreed.
20 20 The Nomination Committee has focused on identifying a new Chief Financial Officer and Senior Independent Director who will bring the appropriate mix of skills and experience to help us oversee and deliver our strategy.
We worked with The Zygos Partnership to search for a new Chief Financial Officer and with Egon Zehnder, a global executive search firm, to recruit a future Senior Independent Director.
After an extensive search, the Committee recommended to the Board that Justin Lockwood, previously our Head of Finance and Interim Chief Financial 60 Chairman Officer, be appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer Independent non-executive directors based on his experience and depth of insight into our markets.
Executive directors Looking ahead, we anticipate appointing an experienced Senior Independent Director in 2017.
2016 objectives 2016 progress 2017 objectives Identify successor for the Senior Search for new Senior Independent Appoint a successor for the Senior Independent Director role.
Continue to review succession plans for Undertook search for a new executive Implement the action plan from the the Board and key roles across director Chief FInancial Officer.
appointment was made in February 2017.
Externally facilitated Board evaluation completed.
50 Corporate Governance Board composition and succession Overview The Committee keeps under review the size, structure Role and composition of the Board and its committees, to The Committees terms of reference are available on our ensure that they comprise individuals with a range of website and some of the key responsibilities include: complementary skills.
It also considered Board level succession planning during the year.
This was particularly reviewing the size, structure and composition of relevant recognising that it is nearly nine years since Tony the Board: Hales was first elected to the Board as a non-executive assisting the Board in selecting and appointing any director by shareholders.
He has also served as Senior new directors and recommending their appointment to Independent Director since May 2010.
The Committee the Board: and focused, therefore, on the search for a new non-executive succession planning.
director to fill this role.
This is being carried out in conjunction with recruitment specialist, Egon Zehnder, Composition and will continue in 2017.
In addition, in the latter part of the year our attention turned to recruiting a new The Committee must have at least three members, the executive director to replace Adrian Gardner.
This was majority being independent non-executive directors.
undertaken in conjunction with The Zygos Partnership.
Members can also include the Chairman and the Chief Neither Egon Zehnder nor The Zygos Partnership have Executive Officer.
any other connection with the Company.
Boardroom diversity Election and re-election of directors The Board diversity policy was reviewed in June 2015 and Directors are appointed to the Board following a is considered to remain appropriate.
robust selection process and on the Committees In reviewing Board composition, the Committee considers recommendation.
The performance of each director the benefits of all aspects of diversity, including is assessed on an annual basis as part of the Board differences in skills, regional and industry experience, race evaluation process.
In addition, a review of the and gender.
Currently, we consider non-executive independence of each non-executive director is candidates from a wide pool including those with little or undertaken and consideration given to the attendance no listed company board experience and review a long of each director at Board and committee meetings.
list of candidates, 50% of whom we aim to ensure Based on these reviews, the Board recommends the are women.
re-election of all directors, who are standing for re-election at the 2017 AGM, as well as the election We only engage executive search firms who have signed of Justin Lockwood.
up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
The stated aim included in the policy is Tenure of directors to ensure that our Board comprises at least two female directors, a diversity commitment we continue to meet.
In December 2016, the Committee recommended to the Board that Cathryn Rileys appointment as a nonexecutive director be extended for a further three years Activities in 2016 from the end of her first three-year term in February 2017.
Meetings The Board approved this extension.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Subsequent to the year end, in February 2017, the Committee recommended to the Board that Tony Hales Board changes appointment as a non-executive director be extended There were a number of changes in 2016.
As reported in through to the AGM in 2018.
The Board approved this our last Annual Report, David Broadbent, Chief recommendation.
Consideration was given to his Commercial Officer, resigned from the Board on independence as described on page 59.
23 February 2016 and left IPF on 7 March 2016.
Adrian An analysis of the tenure of all current directors is shown Gardner, Chief Financial Officer, stepped down from the on page 45 and their individual length of service is Board on 21 September 2016 in order to pursue an shown in their biographies on pages 46 and 47. alternative business opportunity.
He left the business on 30 September following a handover to Justin Lockwood, Further activities the Companys Head of Finance, who became Interim Chief Financial Officer but was not appointed to the At the beginning of 2017, the Committee also reviewed Board at that time.
In February 2017, the Committee and approved Board and committee meeting recommended to the Board the appointment of Justin attendance, which can be found on page 45.
Lockwood as executive director and Chief Financial Officer.
Dan OConnor Chairman International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 51
