Board report Regular themes for the Board were strategy, resources, performance, governance and in particular risk.
Dan OConnor Chairman For more about our Board members see pages 46-47 Dear shareholder Meetings During the year regular themes for the Board were strategy, The Board held seven scheduled meetings in 2016 and one resources, performance, governance and in particular risk.
The Board reviewed strategy at its strategy retreat and endorsed Board members the twin focus of driving value from the European home credit Dan OConnor Chairman business while growing our Mexico home credit and IPF Digital Gerard Ryan Executive director and Chief Executive Officer businesses, with both elements underpinned by an advancing technology capability.
The Board regularly reviewed the financial Tony Hales Senior independent non-executive director resources of the Group and also held in-depth reviews of Jayne Almond Independent non-executive director management capability and succession planning.
Performance Justin Lockwood from 23 February 2017 Executive at Group and Country level is a key agenda item at all Board director and Chief Financial Officer meetings with country and functional heads presenting and John Mangelaars Independent non-executive director being questioned by the Board on their particular areas of Richard Moat Independent non-executive director responsibility.
The Board seeks to adopt best practice on Cathryn Riley Independent non-executive director governance.
In particular as a financial entity, we are very conscious of operating in an area of high official and public Former Board members scrutiny, where the highest standards of governance David Broadbent until 23 February 2016 Former underpinned by process and culture are an absolute necessity.
executive director and Chief Commercial Officer The changing risk map has had high priority not least as regulation has impacted on the business significantly.
Adrian Gardner until 30 September 2016 Former A comprehensive insight into matters considered by the executive director and Chief Financial Officer Board in 2016 can be found on page 49.
2016 objectives 2016 progress 2017 objectives Monitor implementation of new product Effective oversight and support Monitor the impacts of potential new proposition in Poland in response to new monitoring the transition to the new regulation and tax audits on the Polish pricing restrictions introduced in regulatory regime introduced in Poland business and overall Group trajectory.
Continue to oversee the turnaround of Oversee run-off of agent-delivered home The wind down of the business in performance in Mexico and obtain credit operations in Slovakia.
Slovakia progressed ahead evidence that this is sustainable and of expectations.
Review investment opportunities to achieve top-line growth in IPF Digital.
Strong growth delivered in IPF Digital.
Support the growth of IPF Digital gaining assurance that it has the financial and Continued oversight of regulatory and Evolved strategy embedded in leadership resources commensurate competition risk.
Oversee growth plans for home credit Board oversight and management Continued monitoring of leadership, business in Mexico, Romania challenge supported improved development and succession planning and Bulgaria.
performance in Mexico in the second through our People and Organisational half of the year following a performance Focus on efficiency through: Planning process.
materially below our expectations in the use of technology to increase first half.
Focus on efficiency through the use customer experience and reduce cost of technology, reviewing commitment Efficiency programme implemented.
base: and to expenditure on technology.
Strategic people review processes and strengthening sales and service Support the executive team to leadership development programmes organisational structure.
deliver clear and consistent operated across the Group.
Continued focus on leadership strategic communications to and development.
48 Corporate Governance Matters considered by the Board in 2016 Update on Slovakia.
January Update on the Transformation for Growth T4G project: costs, responsibilities and timescales.
Update on IPF Digital compliance.
Consideration of Board evaluation results.
2015 Group financial results, Annual Report and Financial Statements and 2016 AGM notice reviewed February and approved.
Update of the Euro Medium Term Note Programme approved.
2016 budget reviewed and approved following further work to understand the impact of the decision to close the business in Slovakia.
Product structure in respect to changes to forbearance approach approved.
Resourcing of Group compliance function discussed and approved.
Action plan stemming from Board evaluation agreed.
Group Schedule of Key Risks and Risk Appetite Statements approved.
Approval of the Audit and Risk Committees recommendation that the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess performance, business model and strategy.
Recommendation to reappoint Deloitte as the auditor of the Company approved.
May Update on new product performance in Poland.
Update on Mexico trading performance.
Update on People and Organisational Planning including succession planning for senior positions.
Update on the Group compliance function.
Q1 2016 trading update statement reviewed and approved.
Shareholder voting guideline reports from IVIS, ISS and PIRC reviewed.
June Update on new product performance in Poland.
July Update on insurance framework in Poland.
Third-party presentation on evaluation of strategic options.
Group half-year financial report reviewed and approved.
Declaration of interim dividend approved.
Group Schedule of Key Risks reviewed and approved.
Issue of invitations to employees under the Save As You Earn scheme approved.
September Update on new product performance in Poland.
Discussion of third-party strategic review.
Q3 2016 trading update statement reviewed and approved.
October Update on regulatory affairs.
Business plans and budgets for 2017 discussed.
December Standing agenda items were discussed at each scheduled meeting comprising reports from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Interim Chief Financial Officer, Committee Chairs and Company Secretary: and a review of performance against KPIs.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 49
