International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee for the purposes of this report is an essential part of the Companys governance framework.
The Board has delegated oversight of the Companys financial reporting, internal controls, compliance and external audit to the Committee.
An overview of the Committees work during the year and details of how we have discharged our duties is set out below.
The terms of reference for the Committee, together with details of the standard business considered by the Committee, have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS Our Committee meetings during the year were attended by the Investment Adviser and Administrator by invitation.
A representative of the Companys external Auditor, Ernst and Young LLP EY, also attended those meetings considering financial reporting planning, the Annual Report and financial statements, and the half-yearly financial report.
All Committee members are considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, having significant, recent and relevant financial experience in line with the AIC Code.
Biographies of the Committee members can be found on pages 43 to 44.
COMMITTEE AGENDA The Committees agenda during the year included: - Review of the Annual Report and financial statements and half-yearly financial report and matters raised by management and external auditors including significant financial reporting judgements therein - Review of the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies - Consideration and challenge of the draft valuation of the Companys investments prepared by the Investment Adviser and recommendations made to the Board on the appropriateness of the valuation - Review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, including specific focus on cybersecurity and asset availability reviews in the year - Review of the Companys risk profile, specific risks and mitigation practices - Review of the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and the terms of engagement, cost effectiveness and the scope of the audit - Approving the external auditors plan for the current year end - Review of the policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor - Review of the regulatory environment the Company operates within KEY ACTIVITIES CONSIDERED DURING THE YEAR The Committee undertook the following activities in discharging our responsibilities during the year: FINANCIAL REPORTING We reviewed the Companys Annual Report and financial statements, the half-yearly financial report and interim management reports prior to approval by the Board and advised the Board with respect to meeting the Companys financial reporting obligations.
We reviewed the Companys accounting policies and practices, including: approval of critical accounting policies: consideration of the appropriateness of significant judgements and estimates: and advising the Board as to their views on whether the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
We considered the most significant accounting judgements exercised in preparing the financial statements continued to be: the application of investment entity amendments as required by IFRS 10 Applying the Consolidation Exemption : and the basis for determining the fair value of the Companys investments as detailed below.
53 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 Investment entity and service entities accounting considerations A company that qualifies as an investment entity in accordance with IFRS 10 is required to prepare financial statements on an investment basis: carry underlying investments including controlled, jointly controlled or entities over which it has significant influence in its accounts at fair value.
Service entities that provide services in connection with the investment entitys activities but that are not themselves investment entities under IFRS 10 continue to be consolidated within the investment entitys group accounts rather than accounted for at fair value.
We considered reports from the Investment Adviser setting out the basis on which the Company continues to meet the investment entity definition and certain subsidiary entities continue to meet the service entity definition of IFRS 10 but are not themselves investment entities, and agreed this with the Companys Auditors.
We accordingly recommended that the Board approve the financial statements on this basis i. e. that investment entities are accounted for at fair value and service entities are consolidated.
Further details on the application of investment entity amendments and service entity considerations are detailed in note 1 to the financial statements.
Fair Value of Investments The Companys investments are typically in unlisted securities, hence market prices for such investments are not typically readily available.
Instead the Company uses a discounted cash flow methodology and benchmarks to market comparables to derive the Directors valuation of investments.
This methodology requires a series of judgements to be made as explained in note 11 to the financial statements.
The valuation process and methodology were discussed with the Investment Adviser regularly during the year and with the Auditor as part of the year-end audit planning and interim review processes.
We challenged the Investment Adviser on the year-end fair value of investments as part of our consideration of the audited financial statements.
During the period, we reviewed the Investment Advisers quarterly valuation reports, reports on the performance of the underlying assets and the Investment Advisers assessment of macroeconomic assumptions.
The Investment Adviser confirmed that the valuation methodology has been applied consistently with prior years.
We also reviewed and challenged the valuation assumptions discount rates, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, inflation rates and tax rates.
The external Auditor explained the results of their review of the valuations, including their assessment of managements underlying cash flow projections and assumptions: macroeconomic assumptions: and discount rate methodology and output.
On the basis of their audit work the Auditor confirmed no material adjustments were proposed.
As the valuation of investments is one of the most significant areas of judgement for the Company, during the year two members of the Committee met with the audit and EY valuation specialists to focus on this aspect of their audit work.
This was a productive meeting examining the methods and processes applied in their valuation reviews and we left reassured by the holistic, detailed and independent methodology being adopted.
The Committee, having considered the major assumptions applied especially on larger investments, recommended their appropriateness to the Board.
REVENUE RECOGNITION We have considered the risk of inappropriate accounting recognition of revenue to be a relatively low risk given the nature of the Companys activities.
INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committee satisfied itself that the system of internal control and compliance over financial reporting was effective, through consideration of regular reports from the Investment Adviser and Administrator.
We also considered the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff in the finance function and had direct access and independent discussions with the external Auditor during the course of the year.
54 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE Following extensive dialogue with management, we reviewed the Companys 2016 Annual Report and financial statements.
We advised the Board that, in our opinion, the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, operating model and strategy.
CYBERSECURITY REVIEW As part of the Companys rolling annual controls and processes review, an independent assessment of Companys exposure to cybersecurity was completed in 2016.
The security protocols and controls in place were found to be fit for purpose for the Company.
We have requested service providers keep us informed of actions taken based on further improvements proposed as part of the review.
We have also added Cybersecurity reporting to our regular risk review process.
ASSET AVAILABILITY REVIEW It was agreed that the Companys annual controls and processes review for the forthcoming year will focus on asset availability reporting.
We consider this an important non-financial KPI for a number of our investments with consequential implications on returns if such assets become unavailable for public use.
The review is being scoped to ensure sufficient controls are operating in relation to the accurate capture and reporting of such information.
VIABILITY ASSESSMENT We carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company with a view to identify risks which may impact the Companys viability.
Detailed stress tests, including impact assessment on the Companys forecasted cash flows, showed significant resilience in the Companys ability to remain viable.
The results of the risk assessment process are detailed in the Viability Statement on page 37.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR We recommended to the Board the scope and terms of engagement of the external Auditor.
We considered Auditor objectivity and independence, audit tenure and audit tendering and Auditor effectiveness as detailed below: Objectivity and independence In assessing the objectivity of the auditor, we considered the terms under which the external auditor may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
Work expected to be completed by an external auditor includes formal reporting for shareholders, regulatory assurance reports and work in connection with new investments.
Under the policy there is a specific list of services for which the external auditor cannot be engaged, as we consider that the provision of such services would impact their independence.
Any potential services to be provided by the external auditor with an expected value of up to 50,000, and which are not prohibited by the policy, must be pre-approved by the Chairman of the Committee: any services above this value require pre-approval by the full Audit and Risk Committee.
Non-audit fees represented 12% of total audit fees.
EY undertook its standard independence and objectivity procedures in relation to non-audit engagements and confirmed compliance with these to the Committee.
Further details on the amounts of non-audit fees paid to EY are set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
These were reported to us and were considered not to be significant as to risk impacting the objectivity and independence of EY external Auditors.
Audit Tendering and tenure The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, including rotation of the audit partner.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the year to 31 December 2016 will be the first year for the current lead audit partner.
We have challenged EY on its process for transitioning key current audit team members reaching the end of their rotation terms and are satisfied with progress to date and with the level of continuity of other key audit team members.
In October 2010, the Company put out to full tender the audits of the group and its controlled investee entities.
In addition to complying with good practice and satisfying new corporate governance requirements, the tender enabled the Board to benchmark competitiveness and value for money.
Following the tender, EY was appointed auditor of the Company.
In line with the new auditor rotation requirements for listed companies, the next full tender is expected to commence by 2020. Review of Auditor effectiveness As part of our annual review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit, the Committee conducted an in-depth review in 2016 of the auditors performance and we were satisfied with the auditors performance in this regard.
This was facilitated through the 55 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 completion of a questionnaire by relevant stakeholders including members of the Committee and senior members of the Investment Advisers finance team, review and challenge of the audit plan for consistency with the Companys financial statement risks, and review of the audit findings report.
There were no significant matters arising which require the service to be immediately retendered.
During the year, we also continued to review the competitiveness and performance of the auditor across the broader controlled Group.
As a result of a benchmarking exercise for a particular entity in the underlying portfolio, KPMG LLP was appointed as the auditor of this portfolio entity.
In accordance with the relevant Corporate Governance Code principles, the Committee will continue to review the effectiveness of the external auditor and seek to retender in line with best practice.
During the year, the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team reviewed the audit of the Companys 2015 financial statements.
No significant issues were raised.
The FRC report was reviewed by the Committee and the findings in the report, along with the proposed responses in the 2016 audit plan, have been discussed with the auditor.
Review of Auditors remuneration The Committee carried out a review of the proposed audit fees for 2016.
There was an increase at Group level, driven by changes to scope of work being carried out and general cost inflation.
This was partially mitigated through reductions in fees through changes to scope of work being carried out for underlying unconsolidated investee entities.
We consider the audit fees for 2016 are cost-effective and present good value for money for the Companys shareholders.
REGULATORY AND TAX ENVIRONMENT We received regular reports from the administrator and Investment Adviser on regulation and regulatory developments.
Base Erosion & Profit Shifting BEPS We continue to monitor the developments around the OECD-led BEPS initiative across our geographies.
2 Bill 2016-17, incorporating legislation around corporate interest deductibility into law, was issued in March 2017 and is expected to become effective from April 2017.
Group losses carried forward In the U. K. proposed legislation to restrict the availability of carried forward losses was released in 2016.
2 Bill 2016- 17, incorporating this legislation into law, was issued in March 2017 and is expected to become effective from April 2017.
Common Reporting Standard All qualifying entities are now required to comply with the requirements of the Common Reporting Standard CRS.
The Company through its registrar Capita has implemented appropriate systems and procedures for compliance with these regulations.
CRS reporting for the end of 2016 is on course to be submitted by June 2017.
Tax Strategy reporting Legislation requiring large businesses to publish a Tax Strategy document became effective from 1 January 2017.
The Company is not currently required to comply with this legislation, however it intends to publish its Tax Strategy document during 2017 and will continue to monitor compliance going forward.
56 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 Retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules came into force on 1 January 2014 relating to the restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes and close substitutes came into effect.
The Company continues to confirm its shares qualify as an 'excluded security' under these rules and will therefore be excluded from the FCA's restrictions, which apply to non-mainstream pooled investment products.
As such, the Company's shares can continue to be recommended by independent financial advisers IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCA's rules.
The Company is advised that the basis of being excluded from these restrictions is principally due to the Company conducting its affairs in such a manner that it would have qualified for approval by HMRC as an investment that had been resident in the U. K. in its previous accounting periods.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so that this remains the case for the foreseeable future.
FOCUS FOR 2017 As highlighted above, alongside routine matters, the Committee will progress this year with an independent review of the Companys internal controls and procedures in relation to availability reporting and track the impact from the implementation forthcoming tax and regulatory legislation.
John Whittle Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 29 March 2017 57
