DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 2 4 Andr Lacroix Alan Brown Committees: Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director A N Nomination Appointed to the Board as Chief Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive A Audit Executive Officer in May 2015.
Andr is Director in April 2011.
He is currently Group an experienced Chief Executive with a Chief Executive Officer of ASCO Group, R Remuneration strong track record of delivering long-term an international oilfield support services growth strategies and shareholder value business.
Alan was Chief Executive Officer with global companies across diverse of Rentokil Initial plc for five years until 1 Sir David Reid territories.
Andr was previously Group October 2013.
He spent 25 years at Chairman N Chief Executive of Inchcape plc from Unilever PLC where he rose through a Appointed to the Board in December 2011 2005 to 2015 and prior to this he was variety of finance roles in the UK and and became Chairman in January 2012.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Europe and then general management in Sir David Reid retired as Non-Executive of Euro Disney S. C. A.
His last four years were Chairman of Tesco PLC in November 2011 he was the President of Burger King as Executive Chairman of Unilever China.
after serving in that role since April 2004. International, previously part of Diageo.
Following this, Alan returned to the UK as Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of Andr is currently the Senior Independent Chief Financial Officer at Imperial Chemical Tesco PLC and had served on the Tesco Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Industries PLC taking a leading role in the Board since 1985.
David is Chairman of divestment of the company.
Alan is a 3 Edward Leigh the charity Whizz-Kidz.
In February 2012 Trustee of St Cuthbert's Day Care Centre.
Chief Financial Officer he was appointed a member of the Global Senior Advisory Board of Jefferies Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial International Limited, a global securities Officer in October 2014.
Joined Intertek and investment banking group.
He was in March 2013 as the Groups Financial formerly the Senior Independent NonController.
Prior to that, Edward spent nine Executive Director of Reed Elsevier years at Dixons Retail plc, where he held Group PLC now RELX Group, Chairman several senior financial management of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-Executive positions, including Divisional & Corporate Director at Greenalls Group Plc now Development Finance Director, UK & Ireland fide Vere Group, Legal & General Group CFO and Group Financial Controller.
From Plc and Westbury plc.
1995 to 2004 Edward held commercial financial leadership roles at Procter & Gamble Co. covering the UK and international markets.
58 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION 5 6 7 8 9 5 Dame Louise Makin Compass Group, he was the Group Finance extensive global career up to senior Non-Executive Director R N Director at First Choice Holidays plc.
partner level at KPMG, where his last Andrew also previously held senior financial position was as International Chief Appointed to the Board as a Nonpositions with Forte plc and Granada Group Executive Officer, which he occupied Executive Director in July 2012.
Dame plc and was a partner at Arthur Andersen.
He has Louise Makin is currently Chief Executive completed two roles on behalf of the Officer of BTG plc, a growing international 7 Gill Rider CB British Government, namely as the specialist healthcare company, a position Non-Executive Director R Economic Development Advisor to the she has held since 2004.
Before joining Appointed to the Board as a NonGovernment of Afghanistan 2011 to BTG, Louise was at Baxter Healthcare from Executive Director in July 2015.
She 2015 and as the Prime Minister's Special 2000, holding the roles of Vice President, currently holds non-executive Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Strategy & Business Development Europe, directorships with Pennon Group Plc, Iraq 2007 to 2009. and from 2001, President of their where she chairs the Sustainability Biopharmaceuticals division, where she 9 Lena Wilson CBE Committee and Charles Taylor Plc where was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Non-Executive Director A she chairs their Remuneration Committee.
Prior to her time at Baxter, she She is the Senior Independent Director at Appointed to the Board as a Nonwas Director of Global Ceramics at English both.
Gill is also the Chair of Council Board Executive Director in July 2012.
She is China Clay, and in her earlier career, held a of the University of Southampton and was currently Chief Executive Officer of variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and the President of the Chartered Institute of Scottish Enterprise, Scotland's national 1998.
Louise is a Trustee of The Outward Personnel & Development for the last five economic development agency, a member Bound Trust, an Honorary Fellow of St years.
Formerly Gill was head of the Civil of Scotland's Financial Services Advisory Johns College Cambridge, and a NonService Capability Group in the Cabinet Board and Chair of Scotland's Energy Jobs Executive Director of Woodford Patient Office reporting to the Cabinet Secretary Taskforce.
Prior to this, she was Chief Capital Trust plc.
She was previously and prior to that held a number of senior Executive Officer of Scottish Development a Non-Executive Director of Premier positions with Accenture culminating in International Scotland's international Foods plc.
the post of Chief Leadership Officer for trade and investment arm and Chief 6 Andrew Martin the global firm.
She was previously a Operating Officer, Scottish Enterprise.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of fide La Rue plc.
Lena was also a Senior Advisor to The A World Bank in Washington DC on private Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 8 Michael Wareing CMG sector development for developing Director in May 2016.
He currently holds a Senior Independent countries.
Lena is an Ambassador for the non-executive directorship with easyJet plc Non-Executive Director R N A Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice and where he is a member of the Audit, Appointed to the Board as a Nonthe Edinburgh Military Tattoo.
She served Nomination and Remuneration Committees Executive Director in April 2011.
He is on the Board of the Prince's Scottish Youth and is Chairman of the Finance Committee.
currently Chairman at Cobham plc and was Business Trust for 10 years.
From 2012 to 2015, Andrew was the Group previously a Non-Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer for Europe and Audit Committee Chairman at Wolseley plc.
Japan for Compass Group PLC and prior to Michael has major international and board that served as their Group Finance Director level knowledge gained during an from 2004 to 2012.
Before he joined the INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 59 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST CONTINUED BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Any conflicts of interests are reviewed when a new Director is Number of meetings appointed, or if a new potential conflict arises.
Directors abstain held in 2016 from voting when there is a vote to approve their own reported Eligible to conflicts.
During the year, this process operated effectively.
Board Members attend Attendance Sir David Reid BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Chairman 5 5 The Chairman, and respective Committee Chairs, develop and Andr Lacroix agree a forward agenda for Board and Committee meetings for Chief Executive Officer 5 5 the year ahead to ensure that proper oversight of key areas of Edward Leigh responsibility are scheduled regularly and that sufficient time Chief Financial Officer 5 5 is allocated during the year for the Board to fully consider Edward Astle strategic matters.
Non-Executive Director Papers, including minutes of Board and Committee meetings stepped down 25 May 2016 2 2 held since the previous meeting, are circulated in advance of each Alan Brown meeting.
During 2016, there were five scheduled Board meetings Non-Executive Director 5 5 in addition to frequent ad-hoc contact between Directors to Dame Louise Makin discuss the Groups affairs and the development of its business.
Non-Executive Director 5 5 Andrew Martin Agenda items for 2016 included: Non-Executive Director Updates on Group strategy and commercial objectives: appointed 26 May 2016 3 21 Gill Rider Chief Executives Business Performance Reports: Non-Executive Director 5 5 2016 annual budget: Michael Wareing Senior Independent Approval of full year results, Annual Report and Accounts, Non-Executive Director 5 5 half year results, the AGM circular and dividends: Mark Williams Reports of the activities of the Audit, Remuneration and Non-Executive Director Nomination Committees: passed away 6 March 2016 1 02 Lena Wilson Reappointment of Directors at the 2016 AGM: Non-Executive Director 5 43 Approval of changes to the composition of the Board and When required the Board also met at short notice on a quorate basis.
Andrew Martin was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment entered into before his appointment to the Board.
Mark Williams missed one meeting due to illness.
Updates on governance, sustainability, legal, risk, internal 3.
Lena Wilson was unable to attend one meeting due to an illness in the family.
controls and compliance: Updates on developments, acquisitions and disposals: and Whenever a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they will go through the papers, which have been circulated before the Talent mapping and succession planning.
meeting, and give feedback to the Chairman.
There are also The Non-Executive Directors also receive monthly Business meetings held between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Performance Reports and information which enables them to Directors without Executive Directors and management review the performance of the Group and management against in attendance.
the agreed strategy, budget objectives and prior period BOARD VISIT TO CHINA performance.
As well as the above, during the year the Board As part of a familiarisation programme to widen the Boards receives updates on debt financing and investor relations.
understanding of the Groups business, the Board visited the Since the year-end, the Board also approved the Annual Report Intertek operations in China in October 2016.
The visit provided and Accounts for 2016 and has concluded that, taken as a whole, an excellent opportunity for Board members to meet with the they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Notice of Annual China management team and to visit sites in the region.
The local General Meeting was also approved, the payment of a final management team presented on the drivers of the local dividend to shareholders was recommended and the Board has operations and the opportunities in the region.
There was also received and discussed the report on the effectiveness of the time for informal interaction between the Board and senior Board during 2016. management after the meetings.
The combination of laboratory visits and presentations by colleagues was well received and gave BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE the Board an in-depth view of the business in China and the The Directors attendance at Board meetings during the year is environment in which Intertek operates.
set out in the following table.
Details of the Directors Committee attendance are set out in their respective reports.
60 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION The Intertek Board visited our operations in China as part of a familiarisation Intertek Chairman, Sir David Reid, visited PSI in both Houston, Texas and programme to widen their understanding of our businesses.
DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PERFORMANCE EVALUATION There is a formal induction programme which is tailored to meet The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is reviewed the needs of new Directors.
This is managed by the Chairman annually and an independent externally facilitated review is and the Group Company Secretary.
During the programme, new conducted every three years.
A full externally facilitated Board Directors receive background information on the Company and evaluation exercise was last conducted in 2015 and reported details of Board procedures, Directors responsibilities and various on in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The induction also includes a series of Board, Committee and Directors performance cycle meetings with other members of the Board, senior members of management and external advisors.
Year 1 2015 2016 During the year Andrew Martin undertook his induction programme Externally facilitated evaluation conducted including orientation from relevant senior executives from the by an independent consultant operations and other functional areas to ensure the development of a deeper understanding and knowledge of Intertek.
He also received information about the business operations, internal audit activities, Group risks and management processes and procedures.
Year 2 2016 2017 During September 2016, Andrew travelled to various sites and Internal review laboratories in the UK and Europe to visit the operations and meet local management.
Gill Rider also joined him on some of these visits as part of her induction into the business.
Year 3 2017 2018 Internal review In addition to the Boards visit to China, the Chairman had the opportunity to visit the Intertek site in Kista, Sweden.
He was hosted by the Country Manager for the Nordic and Baltic countries.
In October 2016 the Chairman also visited PSI part 2016 Internal Board and Committee evaluation of Interteks Building & Construction business in both Houston, The evaluation process was led by the Chairman, with the Texas and Orlando, Florida.
The Chairman was hosted by the EVP support of the Group Company Secretary and entailed: Americas, North East Asia and Australasia and the SVP, Building the completion of detailed questionnaires by each Board & Construction and was given an update on current and member: future projects.
discussions on the outcomes and recommendations with All Directors are kept up to date with information about Interteks the Chairman and each Board member: and business and there is an ongoing programme of information dissemination.
It is important that the Directors have an following discussion of the results of the evaluation with the appreciation of the business both in the UK and overseas.
During relevant Committee and the Board as a whole, identifying and the year there were presentations from senior management to agreeing areas for improvement.
the Board and meetings have been held on regional strategy to Last years Effective Board Review 2015 was about transition increase the understanding of operations, opportunities and risks.
from the previous leadership of the Group to a new era of The Group Company Secretary, in conjunction with the Groups leadership under the CEO, Andr Lacroix and his team.
advisors, monitors legal and governance developments and Directors are regularly updated on such matters.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 61 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued This years Effective Board Review 2016 covers how the Board is Looking forward, actively progressing and implementing the agreed strategy and Our teams are excited and motivated by the strategy and plans putting in place the strategic initiatives and capability to deliver we are making.
sustainable growth and strong returns for our shareholders.
This will move the Group from good to great.
There is significant energy and resolve through our people now going into the implementation phase of our strategy both on a The key findings of this years report are very positive: twin track basis in the shorter term performance and also the The Board continues to go from strength to strength.
transformational plans for the medium and longer term.
The strategy is now well embedded and the Board is Our Board is a good team with a will to succeed.
This review looking forward to implementation delivering further recognised the rapid progress being made and added value for the business.
constructive builds on how we could continue to improve our performance on the two key areas critical for our success as a The leadership of the CEO is very strong and making a real Group: our People and our Customers.
difference, with good early results.
Chairman and Director evaluation Despite the significant challenges in the Oil & Gas industry, the The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Group results have delivered a strong performance in Revenue, Non-Executive Director, conducted a performance review of Earnings and Cash.
They considered his leadership, performance and The TSR for the year 2016 has increased by 27.3%, overall contribution to be of a high standard and he continues a strong absolute performance and also strong relative to have their full support.
The Chairman met with each Director to discuss individual Governance is seen as strong.
Importantly, this year a strong contributions and performance, together with training and vote 96% on the approval of our 2016 Remuneration report development needs.
Following these reviews, the Board remains and Policy was achieved.
satisfied that, in line with the Codes, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to enable them to Risk management and controls have been revamped and discharge their responsibilities as Directors effectively and the CEO has set great 'tone from the top' in this respect.
that any current external appointments do not detract from Risk Committee has been separated from the Audit & Risk the extent or quality of time which the Director is able to Committee and reports into the Board but is led by senior devote to the Company.
The Board recommends that shareholders should be supportive The Board feels that the quality and level of information and of their election or re-election to the Board at the 2017 AGM.
papers are good, and the progress on the strategic agenda is reviewed and discussed at each meeting.
There is good balance ACCOUNTABILITY and constructive debate at the meetings.
The Board visit to Interteks large and successful business in China was seen as a GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK highlight.
The CEO also encourages Non-Executives to visit lab Board Committees sites and management covering the important geographies The Group has a clear Governance Framework, as set out in the and business lines.
diagram on the next page, which explains how authority is delegated from the Board.
The Board, led by the Chairman, reviews the performance of our Non-Executives, and also the skills and experience During the year, the Board took the decision to separate out the needed looking forward: and then plans succession and responsibility for risk from the former Audit & Risk Committee.
principal Board Committees now comprise the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is pleased with the energy and focus on people in terms of talent planning and management development Each of the Boards Committees has received delegated authority thereby increasing our capabilities to be best in class in to carry out the business defined in its respective Terms of Interteks sector.
This will also provide a stronger platform Reference.
The Board is satisfied that the Terms of Reference and more choice for management succession at both senior for each of these Committees reflect current best practice and and lower levels.
satisfy the terms of the Codes.
The Terms of Reference for these principal Committees are available on the Intertek website at The Board supports the way the CEO has raised the bar on www.
customer focus on sales, service and customer satisfaction across the business and specifically on the growth platforms At each Board meeting, the Chair of each Committee provides such as total business assurance.
the Board with a brief summary of the work carried out by their Committee, if any, between Board meetings and makes There is good engagement with shareholders by senior recommendations to the Board for approval.
management and the IR team.
The Chairman received good feedback in January February 2017 from his visits to shareholders, who accounted for some 25% of the portfolio.
62 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION Further information on the responsibilities and activities of each of the Committees can be found on pages 65 to 80 Intertek Group plc Shareholders Remuneration Committee, pages 81 to 85 Audit Committee and on pages 86 and 87 Nomination Committee.
Intertek Board of Directors The Board also delegates certain responsibilities to management and this is governed by the Authorities Cascade which is regularly reviewed and updated to meet business needs.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES Intertek Executive Management Team The Intertek Executive Management Team, which comprises the Executive Ethics & Investment Executive Directors, EVPs and other senior management, meets Management Compliance Committee regularly to discuss and decide business and operational issues.
Team Committee The biographical details of the members of the Executive Management Team can be found on pages 22 and 23.
Divisional & Country Support Functions Management Investment Committee The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Investment Committee within certain limits as outlined in the Board Approval Matrix.
The Investment Committee is responsible for reviewing Risks Controls significant contracts, leases and acquisitions, undertaking post investment appraisal reviews, and overseeing capital expenditure and investments as defined in the Authorities Cascade, and Board Committees Operational Committees Reports to the Board through forms part of the Intertek Corporate Governance Framework.
the CEO The membership of the Investment Committee consists of the CEO and the CFO.
The Committee is supported by the Deputy INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Company Secretary.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups system Group Risk Committee GRC of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its The GRC was established during the year replacing the Risk, effectiveness so as to be in line with best practice.
Risk Control & Assurance Committee to complement the work management and internal controls are embedded in the running of the Board.
It meets quarterly, and its purpose is: the of each business line, country and support function.
The risk management of risk: to develop, oversee and promote the register process follows the global organisation, and risk registers continuous improvement of the Groups risk management, are produced for the top 30 countries and for each business line internal controls and assurance framework and the related and support function, and then consolidated at Group level.
The procedures and systems: and to oversee the development, GRC reviews the risks and mitigation plans throughout the year, implementation and adoption of any policies, procedures and and the Board approved the final Group Risk Register in December.
systems which are identified as being required to address, or as a consequence of, Group risks.
The GRC provides an integrated, A detailed verification programme provides assurance to the Group-wide approach to identifying and managing the Group's Audit Committee when checking that all the statements made emerging and systemic risk environment.
in the Annual Report and Accounts are accurate.
Interteks Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures is issued to all finance staff Any breaches of the Groups systems of internal and risk and gives instructions and guidance on all aspects of accounting management controls that are identified by the Groups control and reporting that apply to the Group.
Intertek's internal control review procedures are reported to the GRC and corrective action environment is defined by the Core Mandatory Controls is taken.
Framework, which applies across the Group in all locations.
This The GRC comprises the CEO, CFO, EVP Human Resources and the policy is reviewed and refreshed on a regular basis to reflect the Group General Counsel.
changes in the risk, governance and operating environments.
CODE OF ETHICS AND ZERO TOLERANCE APPROACH Ethics & Compliance Committee The Group's key ethics and integrity policies are set out in the In January 2016, the Ethics & Compliance Committee was Code of Ethics, which covers topics such as health and safety, established.
It meets monthly and is responsible for the anti-bribery, integrity, labour and human rights.
The Group has a monitoring of ethical, compliance and HSE issues affecting any zero-tolerance policy to any breaches of the Code of Ethics.
part of the Intertek Group.
The membership consists of the CEO, CFO, EVP Human Resources, the Group General Counsel and the Training on the Code of Ethics is provided to all new employees SVP Global Customer Service & ATIC Operational Excellence.
when they join Intertek, and all employees are required to complete refresher training annually.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 63 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued When completing the training, all employees are required to sign The Company has also consulted extensively with shareholders in a certificate confirming their understanding that any breaches relation to remuneration leading up to the 2016 AGM.
of the Group's Code of Ethics will result in disciplinary action that may include summary dismissal of the employee concerned.
Code 2016 INVESTOR RELATIONS CALENDAR of Ethics training including the importance of the Labour and Full Year Results 2015 Human Rights Policy is also provided by the Group Compliance Annual Results Roadshows function as part of its programme of site visits.
March Pan-European Business Services Conference The Code of Ethics is available on the Groups website.
April Testing, Inspection & Assurance Conference Paris Roadshow CONFIDENTIAL HOTLINE Netherlands Roadshow Intertek is committed to maintaining a culture where issues of May AGM Trading Update integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed.
Nordic Investor Forum There is a global hotline system, which is operated by an June Poland Roadshow independent third party, providing a web-based system in 24 Global Consumer, Technology & Services languages, for the confidential reporting of any suspected or real Conference breaches in compliance by any employee, contractor, customer or European Select Conference other stakeholder.
There is also a telephone hotline where calls August Half Year Results 2016 are answered 24 7 by trained specialists.
This underpins the Interim Results Roadshows ethics programme and also helps the business protect itself September Business Services Conference Frankfurt against any unethical behaviour.
The details of the hotline have Annual Support and Business Services Conference been communicated to staff through the Groups main intranet Strategic Decisions Conference page and by posters at Intertek locations.
All reports are notified immediately to the Ethics & Compliance Committee and October Testing, Inspection & Certification Conference investigated thoroughly, with action taken when required.
Paris Roadshow Reports of significant matters raised on the hotlines are also November Trading Statement provided to the GRC, if appropriate.
December Premium Review Conference Annual European Business Services Conference COMPLIANCE US Roadshow Dedicated compliance officers across the Groups markets Copenhagen Roadshow undertake investigations of issues that arise either from reports to the hotline system or from other sources, such as routine compliance questions.
The Group Compliance function is ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 'AGM' independent of the Group's operational business and reports This year the AGM will be held on 26 May 2017 at 9.00a.
m. directly to the Group General Counsel.
in the Marlborough Theatre, No.
The AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to develop their understanding of the Companys strategy and REMUNERATION operations, to ask questions of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Remuneration report, comprising the Remuneration All Board members attend the AGM and, in particular, the Chairs Committee Chairs annual statement and the Annual Report of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are on Remuneration are set out on pages 65 to 80. available to answer questions.
The Company proposes a resolution on each separate issue and does not combine RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS resolutions inappropriately.
The Notice of the AGM Notice is sent to shareholders by e-communications or by post, and SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT is also available on the website at www.
The views and opinions of shareholders are important to the Company and an ongoing engagement programme for major OTHER DISCLOSURES shareholders is maintained.
Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and the Companies Act 2006 The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are set out in the Other statutory information section on pages are available to meet with shareholders.
Directors are also available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any matters relating to the Company.
The Companys website has an investors section which includes a wealth of information that may be of interest to shareholders and investors.
Intertek's largest shareholders are invited annually to meet with the Chairman to share their views and discuss any corporate governance matters.
In 2016 shareholders holding more than 52% of the share register collectively were invited to these meetings.
64 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
