DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE In my role as Chair, I am pleased to present the report of the Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee Nomination Committee Committee.
This year the Committee during the year was as follows: has continued its work on succession planning and the ongoing Number of meetings review of the composition of the Board and its Committees.
held in 2016 Following a rigorous selection process the Committee was Eligible to Committee members attend Attendance pleased to recommend the appointment of Andrew Martin to the Sir David Reid Committee Chair 4 4 Board as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit 1 Edward Astle 2 2 Committee with effect from 26 May 2016.
His wide-ranging Dame Louise Makin 4 4 experience and financial background is a strong and complementary addition to our Board.
Michael Wareing 4 4 2 Mark Williams 1 0 As announced during the year, Andrew succeeded Michael 1.
Edward Astle stepped down from the Committee on 25 May 2016.
Wareing as Chair of the Audit Committee on 1 March 2017.
Mark Williams missed one meeting due to illness.
He passed away on Michael remains the Senior Independent Director and a member 6 March 2016. of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Group Company Secretary attends all the meetings of The Committee continues to ensure that the composition of the Committee.
the Board retains the right balance of skills, experience, industry THE ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR and technical knowledge and diversity to provide the quality of The Committees programme of work for the year was as follows: leadership necessary to implement the strategy and achieve the strategic objectives necessary for the long-term success Considered and discussed the results of the external annual of the Company.
review into the effectiveness of the Committee.
Main responsibilities of the Committee: Reviewed and appointed recruitment consultants.
Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and Reviewed the composition of each Committee and approved its Committees.
the appointment of Michael Wareing as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Identify, review and nominate candidates to fill Board 1 vacancies.
Reviewed the shortlist of candidates for the position of Non-Executive Director.
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and Committees.
Recommended to the Board that Andrew Martin be appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the Board and a member of the Review the results of the performance evaluation process that Audit Committee with effect from 26 May 2016. relates to the composition of the Board and Committees.
SUCCESSION PLANNING ON THE BOARD Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive The Committee annually reviews the Boards effectiveness and Directors.
composition in relation to long-term succession planning, including 1.
Neither the Chairman nor the CEO participates in the recruitment of their the review of plans in place for the orderly and progressive own successor.
In particular, the Committee considers the balance of skills, experience and independence of the Board when considering new appointments and oversees the preparation of a detailed role specification that is provided to an independent search firm to assist in the identification of the right candidates.
At the end of 2015 it was agreed, to ensure the ongoing refreshing of the skills on the Board, to commence a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
86 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION The Committee engaged Egon Zehnder, an external search INTERTEK INNOVATIONS agency with no other connection to the Company, to assist with the selection process and spent time to prepare the role specification.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and UK'S HIGHEST CAPACITY experience deemed necessary, the specification contained ELECTRIC AND HYBRID criteria such as competency and personal qualities that would be required for this position.
The Committee also considered the VEHICLE DRIVELINE TEST current balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board FACILITY and whether the candidate would be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities.
Having reviewed all the profiles presented, Egon Zehnder prepared During 2016 Intertek opened the UK's highest a long list of candidates, which was reviewed before a shortlist of capacity electric and hybrid vehicle driveline test candidates was drawn up and interviews were held.
Following a facility at Intertek's Milton Keynes test laboratory.
rigorous selection process, the Committee, having considered the The new state-of-the-art facility at Intertek's relative merits and fit of each candidate, made a recommendation automotive engine testing laboratory hosts some to the Board, which was accepted, to appoint Andrew Martin as an of the UK's highest capacity electric vehicle driveline independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 26 May testing equipment, including high capacity battery 2016.
His biography is available on page 59.
A resolution will be simulators and the latest exhaust emissions proposed at the forthcoming AGM for his election.
measurement systems in order to support the European automotive industry's continued push DIVERSITY into driveline electrification.
As described above it is the Companys policy, in line with the Codes, that proposed appointments to the Board, and succession This new facility cements Intertek Milton Keynes' planning, are based on merit, judged against objective criteria, position as the European centre of excellence for whilst also making the best use of differences in culture, gender, low carbon and electric vehicle development, which skills, background, regional and industry experience and other supports the increased demand for electric and qualities.
All of these factors are considered by the Committee hybrid vehicles, tougher rules on air quality in determining the composition of the Board as outlined on the emissions and CO reduction in future vehicles.
An analysis of the diversity of the senior leadership group and other employees as at 31 December 2016 is set out on pages 47 and 48 respectively.
As at 31 December 2016, Intertek had three female members on the Board of nine representing 33%.
Whilst the Boards wish is to maintain at least 33% female representation at Board level, in line with the revised recommendation by Lord Davies, the need to ensure the progressive refreshing of the Board to maintain the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience remains paramount.
Sir David Reid Chair of the Nomination Committee INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 87
