DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is responsible to shareholders for ensuring the Role Name Responsibility sound running of the Company in accordance with best practice Chairman Sir David Reid Leadership and governance of the corporate governance.
The Codes set out five key areas: Board to ensure its effectiveness.
Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and To ensure that the Directors Relations with Shareholders.
The disclosures that follow mirror receive accurate, timely and these sections and together with the Remuneration report, Audit clear information.
Committee report and the Nomination Committee report, set out To ensure that there is effective on pages 65 to 80, 81 to 85, and 86 and 87 respectively describe two-way communication with how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles shareholders.
and complied with the provisions of the Codes throughout the year.
To facilitate the effective contribution to the Board of LEADERSHIP the Non-Executive Directors.
Hold meetings with the NonTHE ROLE OF THE BOARD Executive Directors without The Board is collectively responsible and accountable to the Executives present.
shareholders for providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Chief Andr Lacroix Proposes and agrees the strategy Company to ensure that the strategic aims and financial Executive with the Board.
performance are delivered within a framework of prudent and Officer Run the day-to-day operation effective control systems.
Our strategy and progress towards of the business in line with the its delivery are set out in the Strategic report.
agreed strategy and commercial objectives.
The Board has the ultimate responsibility to the Companys Be responsible for promoting shareholders for the conduct of the business and also establishes and conducting the affairs of the Companys policies.
There is a clear division of responsibility the Company with the highest between the running of the Board and the executive standards of ethics, integrity responsibility for running the Companys business.
The Board and corporate governance.
Approval Matrix formally outlines the matters specifically Lead the Executive Management requiring the consent of the full Board.
The Board also delegates Team.
specific responsibilities, subject to certain financial limits, to Senior Michael Provide a sounding board for management and this is governed by the Authorities Cascade, Independent Wareing the Chairman.
which is regularly reviewed and updated to meet business needs.
NonBe responsible for leading The Board decides and reviews all key policies and regulations for Executive the Directors review of the the Company, its strategy, operating plans, acquisitions, corporate Director Chairmans performance.
governance, major investments and disposals, appointment and Be available to meet with removal of Directors, risk management, financial reporting, audit, shareholders should they have sustainability, ethics, the environment and people policies.
concerns that have not been The Board also reviews and approves the method and approach resolved through normal channels.
to risk management and internal control systems and the Groups risk register.
The overall powers of Directors are set out in the GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Companys Articles of Association Articles and may be amended The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in the by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board may exercise delivery of the Board and governance procedures, in particular all powers conferred on it by the Articles in accordance with the with the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
Committee meetings, the planning of the induction for new Directors and in ensuring that information is made available to ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES the Board members on a timely basis.
She arranges for the In line with the Codes there is a clear division of responsibilities Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors to discuss between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, and these aspects of Intertek's corporate governance arrangements on responsibilities have been formalised in writing.
Their key request and supervises the arrangements for them to visit responsibilities are set out in the following table: Interteks operations to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the business.
The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board by providing advice and services, including access to independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, and ensures that an accurate record of all the meetings and Committee meetings is taken.
If a member of the Board has any concerns about the Company or any of the decisions taken, this would be recorded in the minutes.
No such concerns were raised during the year.
56 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted On 25 May 2016, Edward Astle stepped down from the Board as by law, to each of the Directors and the Group Company Secretary.
announced earlier in the year and then, on 26 May 2016, Andrew Directors and Officers liability insurance is also in place.
Martin was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee following a selection EFFECTIVENESS process led by the Nomination Committee.
More detail on the process for appointments can be found in the report of the As at 31 December 2016, the Board comprised the Chairman, two Nomination Committee on page 86.
Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of individual Directors are set out on pages 58 and 59.
EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD BY NUMBER The Boards composition gives Intertek an appropriate balance of Number of Board members with experience in the sector as at skills, experience, independence and knowledge to ensure the 31 December 2016.1 business continues to be run effectively.
A key focus is to build an effective and complementary Board, whose capability is 9 appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic positioning of 8 the Groups business.
7 6 5 DIVERSITY 4 Male 3 Female 33% 67% 2 1 Finance Government Industries International Listed Risk services Company management 1.
When a Director is considered to have experience in multiple sectors, they have been recognised in all relevant areas.
The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent and external insight to the Boards proceedings and bring with them wide-ranging experience and knowledge from previous roles held in other business sectors and industries which COMPOSITION complement the various sectors in which the Company operates.
Chairman The Board has reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Executives 1 Directors, other than the Chairman, and has determined that all Non-Executives remain independent in character and judgement.
6 The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms 2 subject to election and re-election by shareholders at the AGM each year, if the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, deems it appropriate that they remain in office.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive Director is subject to a particularly rigorous review to ensure the progressive refreshing of the Board to meet the evolving needs of the Company.
The TENURE NON-EXECUTIVES Letters of Appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, as well as the Service Agreements of Executive Directors, are available for Under 1 year inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
1 to 3 years 16% 3 to 6 years DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST To assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid conflicts, 17% or possible conflicts, a formal procedure is in place.
The Directors are advised of the process for dealing with conflicts of interest upon appointment and whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, interested in any contract or arrangement to 67% which the Company is, or may be, a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees and assessing The Conflicts of Interest Register is maintained by the Group whether the balance of skill, experience, independence and Company Secretary and the Board undertakes an annual review knowledge is appropriate to enable them to operate effectively.
of each Directors interests, if any, including outside the Company.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 57
