DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Our last financial year has once again seen more regulatory Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee changes.
I am pleased to present this years report of the Audit during the year was as follows: Committee Committee which aims to outline the activities and Number of meetings the responsibilities of the Committee, on behalf of the Board, in held in 2016 responding to these changes and in scrutinising the conduct of Eligible to Committee Members attend Attendance the business, its management and auditors to protect the Michael Wareing Committee Chair 5 5 interests of our shareholders.
1 Edward Astle 3 3 The Board and the Committee devoted significant time to assess Alan Brown 5 5 our current approach to managing the Groups risk, controls and 2 Andrew Martin 2 13 compliance.
In order to respond dynamically to our changing risk Lena Wilson 5 44 environment, it was agreed to establish a separate Group Risk 1.
Edward Astle stepped down from the Committee on 25 May 2016.
Committee during the year that reports into the Board through 2.
Andrew Martin was appointed to the Committee on 26 May 2016. the CEO.
Delegating the management of risk to the Group Risk 3.
Andrew Martin was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment entered into before his appointment.
Committee is intended to enable an integrated, group-wide 4.
Lena Wilson was unable to attend one meeting due to an illness in the family.
approach to identifying and managing emerging and systemic risks responsively and providing an immediate improvement in Throughout the year, the composition of the Committee was the quality of risk reporting and monitoring.
The Committee in compliance with the Codes and all members are independent continues to review the Company's internal control and risk Non-Executive Directors.
The Board determined that Michael management systems.
Wareing, Andrew Martin and Alan Brown have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee as a whole has competence The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee have been relevant to the sectors in which Intertek operates and their reviewed and updated, and are available on the Companys biographies are set out on pages 58 and 59. website at www.
On appointment new Committee members receive an appropriate Following the audit tender during 2015 and the appointment induction, consisting of the review of the Terms of Reference, of  LLP PwC in May 2016, the previous Committee meeting papers, information on the Committee oversaw a smooth transition from the previous Companys financial and operational risks and also have access to auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG.
The process included the and meetings with senior management and the Groups internal attendance of PwC at Committee meetings before their formal and external auditors.
appointment, supplemented by detailed audit planning activities at all the Groups material operating sites and the review of The business of the Committee is linked to the Groups financial KPMGs audit files at major locations.
calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Group During the year the Committee also ensured that separate Financial Controller, Group General Counsel and the Group Audit meetings with the CFO, Group General Counsel, Group Audit Director attended the meetings.
The audit partner and audit lead Director and the external auditor without management present from KPMG attended meetings held prior to 25 May 2016 and took place in order to provide a forum for any issues to be raised.
PwC attended all meetings held during the year.
Other senior The internal evaluation of the performance of the Committee was executives were invited to attend the Committee meetings conducted during the year and it was shown that the Committee as required.
is able and effective in discharging its duties in accordance with ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMMITTEE its Terms of Reference and the requirements of the Codes.
Our role and responsibilities, as authorised by the Board, are set As announced during the year, Andrew Martin has succeeded me out in the Terms of Reference of the Committee and fall into the as Chairman of this Committee with effect from 1 March 2017. categories below: Financial reporting Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and their compliance with UK statutory requirements.
Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements and accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 81 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Narrative reporting based on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent Where requested by the Board, to review the Annual Report assets IAS 37. and Accounts, and advise the Board on whether, taken as a The level of provision is subsequently reviewed on a regular basis whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides with the Group General Counsel, taking into account the advice of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the external legal counsel.
The Group General Counsel briefs the Companys position and performance, business model Committee on the latest status of key claims and the level of and strategy.
The Committee, following assurance from management Internal control and risk management systems and review of the report presented by the external auditor, Review the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal financial considered and agreed that the claims provision was appropriate controls and internal control and risk management systems.
given the size, status and number of claims reported in the year.
Review and approve the statements to be included in Taxation the Annual Report concerning internal controls and The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated risk management.
according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation and application of which can be uncertain.
In addition, deferred Internal audit tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the Monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
amounts to be recognised, with consideration given to the timing Agree internal audit plans and review reports of the internal and level of future taxable income.
The main areas of judgement audit work.
in the Group tax calculation are the expected central tax provisions for the full year and the recognition of the UK deferred Review and monitor managements responsiveness to control tax asset.
Twice a year, the Committee receives a report from observations made by the internal auditor.
management providing an evaluation of existing risks and tax External audit provisions which is reviewed and rigorously challenged by the Consider and make recommendations to the Board, to be put to Committee.
The Committee also considered reports presented shareholders for approval at the AGM, in relation to the by the external auditor before determining that the levels of appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys tax provisioning were appropriate.
Restructuring Oversee the relationship with the external auditor.
In reviewing the provision for restructuring, the Committee reviewed details of each of the activities pursued as part of the Ensure that at least once every 10 years the audit services restructuring to ensure that the appropriate level of provision is contract is put out to tender.
The Committee also sought confirmation from the Monitor and review the independence and performance of external auditor that the restructuring plan met the criteria for the external auditor and evaluate their effectiveness.
recognising a provision under IAS 37 before determining that the provision was appropriate.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE In preparation for each year-end, the Committee reviews the Accounting for acquisitions significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements to In November 2015, the Group made the significant acquisition be applied in the financial statements and discusses their of PSI in the US.
The provisional recognition of goodwill, intangible application with management.
The external auditor also assets, other assets and liabilities and estimates of the fair value of considers the appropriateness of these assessments as consideration transferred were based on a number of assumptions.
part of the external audit.
In 2016, management concluded its final assessment of these assets and liabilities and presented an update to the Committee.
In accordance with the Codes, the external auditor prepares The Committee reviewed managements final accounting paper on a report for the Committee on both the half year and full year the acquisition, and taken into account the report presented by the results, which summarises the approach to key risks in the external auditor, before determining that the acquisition accounting external audit and highlights any issues arising out of their work is appropriate.
on those risks, or any other work undertaken on the audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and considered the following Impairment areas of judgement to be exercised in the application of the The Groups strategy includes acquisition-led growth to accounting policies: generate new services and expand into new locations.
These acquisitions, being in the service sector, can generate significant Claims goodwill that benefits the Group as a whole and specifically the From time to time the Group is involved in various claims and business to which the acquisition relates.
Goodwill, aggregated lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business.
The at the business line level, must be tested annually for impairment Committee considered the claims provision which reflects the under IAS 36 Impairment IAS 36, or when there are indicators estimates of amounts payable in connection with identified claims of impairment.
These indicators include poor performance from customers, former employees and others.
The Committee compared to budget.
noted that once claims have been notified the finance teams liaise with the business to determine whether a provision is required, 82 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR During the year the Committee discussed the following items.
Items starred below were discussed at the Board in December.
Audit Committee agenda items 2016 Financial statements and reports Feb May Jul Dec Full year results 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Management highlights memorandum Going concern assessment Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Review of significant accounting policies Half year results 2016 Risk Register and Viability Statement process External audit PwC 2016 audit plan Audit fee proposal 2016 PwC engagement letter Non-audit fees review of policy, spend and budget Non-audit services update PwC pre year-end accounting and controls update KPMG highlights review memorandum PwC half year review KPMG effectiveness Letter of representation to the auditors Independence confirmation and transition plan and update for non-audit work Update on audit transition Internal Control Environment 2017 Internal Audit plan and Charter Internal audit reports including internal audit review 2015 and internal audit update Internal audit effectiveness review Compliance and operational risk report Key claims report Core Mandatory Controls update and Assurance Map Other Impairment review 2016 Rolling Committee agenda Review, approval and endorsement of Treasury Policy 2015 Evaluation of the Committee The Committee reviewed the impairment consideration and FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT calculations prepared by management considering the trading Further to the request of the Board, the Committee has reviewed assumptions, the discount rates used as well as the sensitivities the Annual Report and Accounts with the intention of providing included by management, details of which are contained in note advice to the Board on whether, as required by the Codes, the 9 to the financial statements.
The Committee also took into Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced account the work undertaken by the external auditor in respect and understandable and provides the necessary information for of impairment and is satisfied that no impairment is required shareholders and other readers of the Annual Report and against any cash generating unit CGU.
Accounts to assess the Groups position and performance for 2016, its business model and strategy.
The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements were consistent, with the exception of In justifying this statement, the Committee has considered the restructuring, with those identified by the external auditor in robust process that underpins it, which includes: their report on pages 145 to 150.
Clear guidance and instruction given to all contributors, including at business line level: INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 83 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Revisions as a result of regulatory requirements were At the meeting held in May 2016 the Committee considered in monitored on a regular basis: detail the feedback received from the internal review, KPMGs performance and independence and concluded that the overall Pre year-end discussions held with the external auditor in audit process was effective.
PwCs effectiveness for the 2016 advance of the year-end reporting process: audit of the Group will be reviewed by the Committee in May 2017.
Pre year-end input provided by senior management and Audit tendering corporate functions: Following a comprehensive tender carried out in 2015, PwC A verification process dealing with the factual content of the were appointed the Companys external auditor for the 2016 reports to ensure accuracy and consistency: audit replacing KPMG who had been the auditor for a number of years.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC Comprehensive review by the senior management team to continues to act as Auditor to the Group, and resolutions will ensure overall consistency and balance: be put to shareholders at the AGM to be held on 26 May 2017 Review conducted by external advisors and the external proposing the reappointment of PwC and for the Committee, on auditor on best practice with regard to the content and behalf of the Board, to be authorised to determine the Auditors structure of the Annual Report and Accounts: remuneration.
The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Order, Review and consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts published by the CMA.
by the Committee: and Audit and non-audit fees Final sign-off provided by the Board.
The Company has set out a policy on the provision of non-audit The results are presented to the Committee to ensure work by the external auditor to make sure that the auditors compliance with the Codes.
The Committee challenges independence is safeguarded.
The policy was reviewed during judgemental statements to ensure that they are reasonable the year in light of the transition of auditor and revised guidance within the context of the report.
This process enabled the from the FRC.
The policy is consistent with the FRC Ethical Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that the 2016 Standard and is designed to ensure that the provision of such Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced services does not create a threat to the external auditor's and understandable and provides the information necessary for independence and objectivity.
shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, It identifies certain types of engagement that the external business model and strategy.
auditor shall not undertake, including internal audit and actuarial EXTERNAL AUDITOR services relating to the preparation of accounting estimates for Independence the financial statements, appraisal or valuation services, tax The independence of the external auditor is critical for the services in relation to marketing, planning or opining in favour integrity of the audit.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC are of a transaction and any other services that, locally, are prohibited fully independent from the Companys management and free from through regulation.
For 2016 only, a transitional amount had conflicts of interest.
A control process was in place throughout been set by the Committee to assist the completion of agreed the year to assist the exit arrangements made in respect of hand-over tasks.
non-audit services that continued into 2016.
In the event that specific engagement arises in the future, The continued independence of the external auditor is the policy is designed to ensure that the external auditor is only achieved through: appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to be the most suitable supplier of the service.
This will require the The annual approval of the policy for the engagement of approval by the Chair of the Committee and the CFO, and will be external auditors for audit and non-audit services: limited to a maximum of 35% of the annual external audit fee.
Setting limits and a cap for non-audit spend for the A summary of the fees paid for non-audit services is set out external auditor: below and further information is contained in note 4 to the An annual review of the auditor's performance in conducting financial statements on page 103: the external audit: and AUDIT FEE BREAKDOWN FOR SERVICES PROVIDED BY PWC Where appropriate, audit tendering and rotation.
IN 2016 AND BY KPMG IN 2015 2016 2015 Effectiveness of the external audit m m In line with previous years a review was conducted into the Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.6 effectiveness of the external audit as part of the year-end audit related services 0.1 process.
A survey assessed the effectiveness of the KPMG audit tax services 0.1 0.4 across its three main stages: Planning, Fieldwork and Reporting other non-audit services 0.2 for the 2015 year-end.
The survey was sent to those within the Audit fee 3.1 2.5 Group who were involved in the audit process seeking their views % of audit fee 6% 25% on the service provided.
84 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION INTERNAL CONTROLS AND REPORTING PRIORITIES FOR 2017 In order to provide assurance that the Intertek controls and The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months are policy framework is being adhered to, a self-certification exercise as follows: is undertaken across the Groups global operations.
This process Continue to monitor the new external auditor and facilitate is facilitated by the Legal, Risk and Compliance function and the their understanding of the business: internal control framework has been subject to a thorough review this year to support the continued development of the Groups Ensure that the audit continues to evolve and align with the control environment.
An online questionnaire requesting changes in the business and strategic objectives: confirmation of adherence to controls, financial and operational, Continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors is sent to all Intertek country and finance operations.
Where on the Group and its financial position: and corrective actions are needed, the country is required to provide an outline and a confirmed timeline.
These items are monitored Monitor any relevant changes in the corporate governance closely to ensure timely completion.
A consolidated assessment is made at regional level for approval.
GOING CONCERN An evaluation is then undertaken with EVPs following which a The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group Company-wide position is submitted to the CEO and the CFO.
has adequate resources for a period of at least 12 months from A final summary assessment is provided to the Committee.
The the date of signing the Annual Report and Accounts, and have self-assessment exercise has been reviewed during the year to therefore assessed that the going concern basis of accounting is ensure global coverage and to reflect Intertek operational and appropriate in preparing the financial statements and that there financial structure, and in order to enhance the alignment of the are no material uncertainties to disclose.
self-assessment to the assurance process.
The Committee can This conclusion is based on a review and an assessment of the confirm that it reviewed the Groups internal controls and risk levels of facilities expected to be available to the Group, based on management systems and concluded that there was a sound levels of cash held, Group Treasury funding projections, and the and effective control environment in place across the Group Groups financial projections for a period to 31 December 2021. during 2016 and up to the date upon which these financial With the exception of 82m of facilities maturing in 2017, all statements were approved.
No significant failings or the current borrowing facilities are expected to be available weaknesses had been identified.
AUDIT STRATEGY In making this assessment, management has considered the The Audit Strategy was presented to the Committee during the covenants attached to the Groups borrowing facilities and year.
The strategy has focused on ensuring that the programme performed downside scenarios on the Groups financial is annually strengthened and continues to evolve and is enhanced projections of 10% and 20% reduction in EBITDA forecast.
to reflect the size and global reach of the Intertek Group.
PwC Even in these circumstances, there is significant headroom based their risk assessment, strategy and approach on their on the debt covenants.
understanding of the business and the gaining of a deeper understanding of the Intertek business has been a key focus After making diligent enquiries the Directors have a reasonable during the year.
It has been important to ensure that the Intertek expectation based upon current financial projections and bank audit team has the right expertise in the right places.
To achieve facilities available, that the Group has adequate resources to this, the PwC team has been structured to mirror the way Intertek continue in operation.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the is structured, with local teams for each location, regional teams going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
who will liaise with Interteks regional CFOs and Group oversight of regional accountability.
INTERNAL AUDIT The annual Internal Audit plan is reviewed and approved by the Committee.
Where there is no internal expertise to perform a Michael Wareing specialised audit, a third-party auditor with the requisite skills Chair of the Audit Committee is appointed to undertake the audit, the findings of which are reported to the Committee.
In its quarterly reports to the Committee, Internal Audit provided summaries of each audit performed, with commentary on the robustness of risk management activities and internal control design and operating effectiveness.
In 2016 there was a varied plan of work across key risk areas, including reviews of businesses, functions and projects, as well as regular follow-up activities.
As part of its annual programme, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 85
