International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility and corporate citizenship remain core to our values, creating value for clients, investors, shareholders, employees, communities and society alike.
This is achieved by taking responsibility for our actions, outcomes and reputation and is fully embedded into INPPs core business objectives and day-to-day business culture and operations.
Our most material impacts are indirect, relating to the environmental and social performance of the construction and operation of the buildings and infrastructure that make up the Companys portfolio.
This ranges from the social utility derived from modern school environments for children to learn: to quality public buildings such as libraries and local health practices: to new efficient trains and light rail systems providing better connectivity: and to offshore power networks enabling the transmission of green energy from offshore wind farms for wider distribution to homes and businesses.
Additionally, we recognise the importance of managing our relationship with Amber, our Investment Adviser, and associated asset management operations including the energy and resources used within all our operations and our contribution to the local and international community.
Wherever we operate, we seek to integrate within the neighbourhood, supporting the local community, its businesses and its workforce.
Amber operates a Sustainability Policy, which looks beyond legislative and regulatory requirements to promote best practice and continual improvement in environmental management and social responsibility.
It is certified to The Planet Mark and is committed to measuring and reducing its carbon footprint and wider sustainability metrics.
It also supports best practice in responsible investment.
A selection of the social responsibility initiatives provided through our investment portfolio are described below.
SUPPORTING PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERS The Dublin Courts PPP project provides the people of Dublin with a landmark, exemplary facility, which has recently hosted a series of distinguished guests and international conferences.
Events have included a visit by the Supreme People's Court of China, European Circuit of the Bar of England and Wales International, a visit by the International Academy of Trial Judges and it also participated in Open House Dublin.
Liverpool Library has also proved to be a valuable resource to the local community and has become a focal point for a series of highprofile events.
It has hosted Liverpool Pride, Beatles Week, exhibitions of rare books and performing arts events.
The redevelopment of Olga School in Tower Hamlets has joined the Considerate Contractors scheme, a voluntary code of conduct intended to successfully embed the construction works in the community.
Positive outcomes include direct employment of residents from the local area and using the project to tie in with the curriculum at the school through presentations and site visits for the pupils and staff.
This project aims to educate and inspire participants in the process of developing their new school and inspire them to consider a future career in construction.
Pupils from Elizabeth Garrett Anderson School visited the Pevensey Bay Sea Defence Project on a field trip.
The geography field trip, funded by the Local Education Partnership, provided the opportunity for 71 pupils from the school to visit sea defence systems in place around Pevensey and Eastbourne to protect and preserve the coastline from erosion.
The field trip was arranged to prepare the students for the SDME Sustainable Decision Making Exercise exam.
In 2015 52% of EGA students achieved grades AC in the SDME exam.
In 2016 this rose to 61%, an increase of 9% that the school considered to be a direct result of the field trip.
PROMOTING SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR PARTNERSHIPS Facilities managers FM provide day-to-day operations and maintenance services at many of INPP PPP projects and, like INPP, are encouraged to actively support local and environmental initiatives.
For example, the FM provider at the Strathclyde Police Training College was randomly selected by their own internal auditors to participate in a procedural review.
This encompassed a range of elements across the business and service delivery model from hard services compliance to environmental impact and staff engagement.
The results were positive, of note is the 100% scoring for hard FM maintenance and the Everyone has a voice staff fulfilment scores, well above the company average.
Resultant actions for early 2017 38 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 include the employment of two apprentices for administration and engineering, the Give a Day of Your Time GADOYT scheme where staff can offer day of company time to benefit the local community, and an Energy Efficiency Opportunity survey to further identify areas where the environmental impact can be reduced.
The FM provider at INPPs Northampton Schools project supported a charity event called the Big Sleep Out on behalf of the Hope Centre, Northampton.
This involved sleeping rough overnight in a local park to raise awareness and money for the homeless across Northampton, with the total amount of money raised by staff matched by their employer.
Staff from the FM provider installed a retail unit for a charity free of charge at Bootle Government offices scheme.
The support provided included labour, flooring and a replacement door.
COMMITMENT TO ENVIRONMENT All three schools at INPPs Building Schools for the Future scheme in Kent have had biomass boiler heating systems installed and are currently being investigated for their potential eligibility for the 20-year Renewable Heat Initiative RHI tariff, which will reduce carbon emissions as well as providing an income for the Local Authority.
The RHI is a Government financial incentive to promote the use of renewable heat, switching or maintaining heating systems that use eligible energy sources that can help the U. K. reduce its carbon emissions and meet its renewable energy targets.
An energy saving scheme at INPPs Abingdon Police PPP project has seen overall energy consumption fall by 5% and CO2 emissions by 6.8%.
This has been achieved by installing the latest energy efficient LED lighting and voltage optimisers.
Where changes to a project are required by the client, INPP and Amber actively work to achieve high standards in sustainability, including building certifications such as BREEAM, LEED and Green Star.
Olga School, for example, is currently having a new building added which will achieve a BREEAM Excellent rating.
INPPs investment into OFTOs enables the transmission of green energy generated by offshore windfarms to the National Grid.
INPPs investment into the Thames Tideway Tunnel will have a significant environmental impact on the water quality of the River Thames in London, U. K. as a consequence of diverting sewage and waste water away from the Thames and directly to a water treatment facility.
INVESTING IN THE COMMUNITY Thames Tideway Tunnel project leads the industry in demonstrating how a construction project should integrate into and deliver real benefits to adjacent communities.
The project team are helping deliver their vision of Reconnecting London, and Londoners, with the River Thames through supporting community activities in the Boroughs where works are to be delivered.
Specific events have included education programmes, supporting of local clubs and societies and working in partnership with local schools and colleges.
A study has recently been carried out on INPPs Moray Schools project to identify how Elgin Academy can be further used to benefit the local community.
A draft policy identities a first outcome for using the building to store 600 bicycles overnight for Ride the North, a two-day 175 mile cycling challenge that benefits local charities.
As part of a coordinated sustainability programme, schools in the Derby Schools portfolio have been supported by the project staff donating their time to carry out works to enhance the local community.
To date, the programme has been used to improve the remembrance garden at Tupton School and creation of a sensory garden at Long Eaton School to support children with additional learning needs.
INPP continues to support the Community Partnerships Programme at the Royal Childrens hospital, an investment in Australia.
The key objectives of this programme include: - providing partnerships and attractions that reflect the Royal Childrens Hospital Melbourne standing as being one of the worlds great childrens hospitals - bringing the Victorian community into the RCH and creating partnerships with iconic Victorian institutions: reinforcing the image of the Facility as uniquely Victorian - supporting the pain free experience for children through entertainment and distraction - creating a dynamic, wellness-promoting environment for patients, families and staff - integrating education outcomes with entertainment - incorporating evidence-based outcomes in developing the program of events and activities 39 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 - activating the spaces within the new RCH, creating a living, breathing environment The Community Partnerships Programme is being delivered as a result of the scheme design for RCH, which includes a range of internal and external spaces designed to accommodate the Community Partnerships Programme including performance, displays and activities.
The vision behind this is to create an open environment for bringing a range of people and activities to the RCH.
At the heart of the Programme is the opportunity to bring people into the Street and other public areas, creating a sense of community and stimulating interaction between patients, families and staff.
The Street has seen a range of fun and interesting activities at the hospital, including: - travelling exhibitions associated with major events, e. g. the Grand Prix and the Royal Agriculture Show - visiting sports stars international cricket and soccer teams, AFL, basketball and stars from the performing arts - live street entertainers including dragons celebrating Chinese New Year In addition, INPP has developed wider relationships with third-party supporters to bring further variety to the hospital, including the Royal Melbourne Zoo, Scienceworks Museum Victoria, Melbourne Aquarium: and Hoyts Bean Bag Cinema.
40 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 CORPORATE GOVERANCE SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT POLICY OVERVIEW INPP invests in public or social infrastructure assets and related businesses located in the U. K. Australia, Europe, North America and other parts of the world where the risk profile meets the Companys risk and return requirements.
The Company has a long-term view and invests in operational and construction phase assets for the life of the asset or concession, unless there is a strategic rationale for earlier realisation.
INPP seeks to enhance the capital value and the income derived from its investments to optimise returns for its investors.
The Investment Policy is summarised below and available in full at www.
INVESTMENT PARAMETERS Maintaining the performance of the existing portfolio is the Companys key focus.
However, it will also seek attractive opportunities to expand its portfolio, including: - Investments with characteristics similar to the existing portfolio - Investments in other assets or concessions having a public or social infrastructure character with either availability, property rental or user paid payment mechanisms - Investments in infrastructure assets or concessions characterised by high barriers to entry and expected to generate an attractive total rate of return over the life of the investment PORTFOLIO COMPOSITION The Company will, over the long term, maintain a spread of investments both geographically and across industry sectors in order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the Companys portfolio.
It does not expect to invest in projects in non-OECD countries.
Asset allocation will depend on the maturity of the local infrastructure investment market, wider market conditions and the judgement of the Investment Adviser and the Board on the suitability of the investment from a risk and return perspective.
The Company Overview on page 3 has details of the current composition of the investment portfolio.
INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS The Companys investment policy restricts it from making any investment of more than 20% of the total assets in any one investment in order to limit the risk of any one investment to the overall portfolio.
As a London Stock Exchange-listed Company, INPP is also subject to certain restrictions pursuant to the UKLA Listing Rules.
MANAGING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Further investments will continue to be sourced by the Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited.
Some of these investments will have been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may be acquired from, members of the Amber Infrastructure Group.
The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with conflicts of interest that may arise and manage conduct in respect of any such acquisition.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out more details on the conflicts management process.
41 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Company may also make prudent use of leverage to enhance returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments in the short-term and to satisfy working capital requirements.
Under the Companys Articles, outstanding borrowings at the Company level, including any financial guarantees to support subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to 50% of the GAV of the Companys investments and cash balances.
The Company has the ability to borrow in aggregate up to 66% of such GAV on a short-term basis i. e. less than 365 days if considered appropriate.
Details of the Companys corporate debt facility can be found on page 21.
CHANGES TO INVESTMENT POLICY Material changes to the investment policy summarised in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the U. K. Listing Rules.
42 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 CORPORATE GOVERANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The table below details all Directors of the Company at the date of this report.
BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE 1 1 1 1 1 Rupert Dorey John Whittle John Le Poidevin John Stares Claire Whittet Giles Frost Chairman Senior Independent Chairman, Risk SubChairman, Director Chairman, Committee Management Investment Chairman, Audit and Engagement Chairman, Committee Risk Committee Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Aged 56 and a Aged 61, John is a Aged 46, and a Aged 65 and a Aged 61 and a Aged 54, resident in resident of resident of resident of resident of Guernsey resident of the United Kingdom, Guernsey, Rupert Guernsey.
John is a Guernsey, John has since 2001, John has Guernsey, Claire has Giles is a founder has over 30 years of Chartered over 20 years of over 40 years nearly 40 years and Director of experience in Accountant and business experience.
experience in the Amber and has financial markets, holds the Institute of banking industry.
In worked in the John is a Fellow of Before moving to including 17 years at Directors Diploma in 2003, Claire joined infrastructure the Institute of Guernsey, John CSFB where he Company Direction.
Rothschild Bank investments sector Chartered worked for 23 years specialised in creditJohn holds nonInternational Limited for over 20 years.
Accountants in as a management related products.
executive positions as a Director and Giles qualified as a England and Wales consultant with on a number of was latterly, solicitor and partner Ruperts expertise and a former partner Accenture where he other boards.
Managing Director in the law firm Wilde was principally in the of BDO LLP, where as held a wide variety and Co-Head until Sapte now areas of debt John was previously Head of Consumer of leadership roles.
distribution, Finance Director of Markets, he He currently holds became a Nonorigination and Close Fund Services, developed an Giles is a Director of non-executive Executive Director of trading, where he a large independent extensive breadth of Amber Infrastructure positions on the the bank.
Claire was held a number of fund administrator.
experience and Group Holdings Ltd, boards of several previously with Bank senior positions at knowledge across the ultimate holding Prior to moving to other companies.
of Scotland and was CSFB, including Fixed the leisure and retail company of the Guernsey, John was John is a Fellow of then Global Head of Income Credit sectors in the U. K. Investment Adviser at Price Waterhouse the Institute of Private Client Credit product coordinator and overseas.
to the Company and in London before Chartered at Bank of Bermuda.
for European offices various of its embarking on a John is a nonAccountants in Claire is a Nonand head of U. K. subsidiaries.
career in business executive director on England and Wales, a Executive Director of Credit and Rates services, several plc boards member of the another four listed Sales.
predominantly and chairs a number Worshipful Company funds, is a member Since 2005 Rupert telecoms.
of Management of the Chartered has been a NonConsultants, and a Institute of Bankers Executive Director Freeman of the City in Scotland, a for a number of of London.
member of the Hedge Funds, Private Chartered Insurance Equity & Institute, a Infrastructure Funds.
Chartered Banker, a He is a member of member of the the Institute of Institute of Directors Directors.
and holds the Institute of Directors Diploma in Company Direction.
DATE OF APPOINTMENT 2 August 2006 6 August 2009 1 January 2016 28 August 2013 10 September 2012 2 August 2006 1 All of the Independent Directors are members of all committees.
43 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 LISTED COMPANY AND OTHER RELEVANT DIRECTORSHIPS Rupert Dorey John Whittle John Le Poidevin John Stares Claire Whittet Giles Frost AP Alternative Aberdeen Frontier BH Macro Ltd JT Group Chairman BH Macro Ltd Giles is also a Assets LP, AAA Markets Investment Director of a number Market Tech Terra Firma Eurocastle Guernsey Ltd Company Ltd of the Companys Holdings Ltd Guernsey-based Investment Ltd subsidiary and Cinven Capital Globalworth Real entities investment holding Safecharge Riverstone Energy Management IV, V, Estate Investments entities and of other International Group Governor of More Ltd VI Ltd, Ltd entities in which the Ltd House School TwentyFour Select Company has an Cinven General GLI Finance Ltd Specialist New Philanthropy Monthly Income investment.
He does Partner Ltd, Ltd India Capital Growth Investment Capital Trustee Fund Ltd not receive directors NB Global Floating Fund Ltd Properties Plc fees from such roles Rate Income Fund for the Company.
Starwood European Stride Gaming plc Ltd Real Estate Finance M&G General Ltd Partner Inc, Episode Toro Ltd LLP & Episode Inc. Partners Group Global Opportunities Ltd Tetragon Financial Group Ltd Tetragon Financial Group Master Fund Ltd 44 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Board of Directors is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company that is a constituent of the FTSE250 Share Index.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management and oversight of the Company, for agreeing its strategy, monitoring its financial performance, and setting and monitoring its risk appetite.
This section describes how INPP is governed.
It explains how the Board is organised and operates, including the roles and composition of each of its committees, and provides details on our Board members and how they are remunerated.
As an investment company, the Company has no employees and relies on the advice and expertise of its key suppliers, notably its Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited.
This section therefore also explains the nature of the Companys relationship with Amber, how this is managed including the remuneration of the Adviser.
COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODES All companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange are required to confirm their compliance with or explain departures from the U. K. Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2014 the U. K. Code.
This requirement applies regardless of where the Company is incorporated.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC.
The Financial Reporting Council acknowledges that the AIC Corporate Governance Code issued in February 2015 the AIC Code can assist externally managed companies in meeting their obligations under the U. K. Code in areas that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The Guernsey Financial Services Commission has also confirmed that companies that report against the U. K. Code or AIC Code are deemed to meet the Guernsey Code of Corporate Governance.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment Companies website www.
The U. K. Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Company has complied throughout the year with all the provisions of the AIC Code and as such also meets the requirements of the U. K. Code.
However, as an investment company, most of the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third parties.
The Company does not have any Executive Directors.
The U. K. Codes two separate principles of setting out the responsibilities of the Chief Executive and disclosing the remuneration of executive directors Section 12 A.
2 of the U. K. Code are therefore not applicable.
BOARD AND COMMITTEES The Board sets the strategy for the Company and makes decisions on changes to the portfolio including approvals of acquisitions, disposals and valuations.
Through committees and the use of external independent advisers it manages risk and governance of the Company.
The Board has a majority of Independent Directors currently five of the six Directors are independent.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors currently consists of six Non-Executive Directors, whose biographies, on pages 43 to 44, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
The Board consists solely of Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Dorey, who is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Mr Dorey met the independence criteria of the AIC Code and U. K. Code upon appointment and has continued to meet this condition throughout his term of service.
Mr Whittle holds the role of Senior Independent Director.
He is an alternative point of contact for shareholders and leads in matters where it is inappropriate for the Chairman to do so.
For the purposes of the AIC Code Mr Frost is treated as not being an Independent Director, due to his relationship with the Companys Investment Adviser.
In accordance with the AIC Code all other non-executives are independent of the Companys Investment Adviser.
45 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 BOARD TENURE AND RE-ELECTION Directors do not have service contracts.
Directors are appointed under letters of appointment, copies of which are available at the registered office of the Company.
The Board considers its composition and succession planning on an ongoing basis.
With effect from 2017, all Directors have agreed to offer themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
In accordance with the AIC Code, when and if any Director has been in office or on re-election would at the end of that term of office have been in office for more than nine years the Company will consider further whether there is a risk that such a Director might reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through such long service.
Mr Dorey has been a Board member since August 2006 and in August 2015 had served as a Board member for over nine years.
The Board is confident that Mr Dorey remains independent, by virtue of his behaviour and judgement which remains challenging and unbiased.
He has agreed to offer himself for re-election on an annual basis since 2015.
DIRECTORS DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: - Statutory obligations and public disclosure - Approval of investment decisions - Strategic matters and financial reporting - Board composition and accountability to shareholders - Risk assessment and management, including reporting, compliance, monitoring, governance and control - Other matters having material effects on the Company These reserved powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to demonstrate clearly the importance with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
The Board monitors the Companys share price and NAV and regularly considers ways in which shareholder value may be enhanced.
These may include implementing marketing and investor relations activities, appropriate management of share price premium discount and the relative positioning and performance of the Company to its competitors.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis and the Company has maintained appropriate cover throughout the period.
All new Directors receive introductory support and education about the infrastructure sector and the Company from the Investment Adviser on joining the Board and, in consultation with the Chairman all Directors are entitled to receive other relevant ongoing training as necessary.
BOARD DIVERSITY The Board is committed to maintaining the appropriate balance of skills, gender, knowledge and experience among its members to ensure strong leadership of the Company.
When appointing Board members, its priority will always be based on merit, but will be influenced by the strong desire to maintain Board diversity.
The Board has one female Director.
BOARD REMUNERATION The Nomination and Remuneration Committee considers matters relating to the Directors remuneration, taking into account benchmark information including fees paid to directors of comparable companies, although such a review does not necessarily result in any changes to the fees paid and based upon the amount of work performed by the Board members.
In 2016 no advice or services were provided by any external persons in respect of its consideration of Directors remuneration.
All fees payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by the Directors on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne by the Directors and be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of a quality required to run the Company successfully.
The Chairman of the Board is paid a higher fee in recognition of additional responsibilities, as is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Chairmen of the Nomination and Remuneration, Management Engagement, and Investment Committees respectively do not receive additional fees for these roles.
46 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 There are no long-term incentive schemes provided by the Company and no performance fees, or bonuses paid to Directors.
Any changes to Directors remuneration are considered at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
In November 2016, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee undertook a review of Board remuneration.
The review took into account the remuneration of members of the peer group as well as the growth of the Company since the last review of remuneration in 2013 and the commensurate increases in the number of meetings required and workload generally.
At the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board resolved to increase remuneration.
The changes to Board Remuneration are POSITION PREVIOUS FROM 1 JANUARY 2017 Board Chairman 60,000 67,500 Audit Committee Chairman 50,000 55,000 Director Independent and Non-Independent 37,500 32,000 43,000 During the year, serving Directors were paid the following emoluments: 1 2016 FEES PAID 2015 FEES PAID ACCRUED DIRECTOR 2 Rupert Dorey 60,000 70,000 3 John Whittle 50,000 60,000 Claire Whittet 37,500 47,500 John Stares 37,500 47,500 John Le Poidevin 37,500 - 4 Giles Frost 32,000 42,000 1 Includes 10,000 fee payable to Board members with respect to the October 2015 Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription and Placing Programme, paid in January 2016.
2 Mr Dorey became Chairman of the Board on 31 December 2013 for which he receives a higher fee.
3 Mr Whittle became Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 31 December 2013 for which he receives a higher fee.
4 The emoluments for Mr Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure Limited, a related company of the Companys Investment Adviser.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Directors, who held office at 31 December 2016, had the following interests in the shares of the Company: 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 1 1 DIRECTOR NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES 2 Rupert Dorey 793,687 793,687 3 John Whittle 52,198 52,198 3 Claire Whittet 52,257 50,000 John Stares 75,000 75,000 4 John Le Poidevin - N A Giles Frost 513,274 448,745 1 All shares are beneficially held.
2 Shares owned by Mr Doreys spouse.
3 Holds shares through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme.
4 Mr Le Poidevin was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 and had no interests in the shares of the Company prior to his appointment.
There have been no changes to any of the above holdings between 31 December 2016 and the date of this report.
Mr Frost is also a Director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment, although he does not control or receive remuneration in relation to these entities.
In December 2015, Mr Whittle was appointed as Director of all Luxembourg subsidiary entities of International Public Partnerships Limited.
The appointment is effective from January 2016.
Director fees of 3,000 per entity have been paid for the year ended 31 December 2016.
47 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board has established four committees consisting of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The responsibilities of these Committees are described below.
Terms of reference for each Committee have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE The Audit and Risk Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director.
Mr Whittle is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Mr Stares has lead responsibility for Risk within that committee.
As a consequence, the Company Chairman is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, which the Board believes is appropriate as Mr Dorey brings significant independent expertise in investment trusts and finance for the benefit of that Committee.
The duties of the Audit and Risk Committee in discharging its responsibilities are outlined in the Audit and Risk Committee Report.
In respect of its risk management function, the Audit and Risk Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Companys risk management framework including the acquisition and disposal of assets, the valuation of assets and ensuring that the risk management function of the Investment Adviser, Administrator and other third party service providers are adequate and to seek assurance of the same.
48 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 The Audit and Risk Committee were satisfied that the key risks that could impact the Company and its investments were effectively mitigated and reported upon and were broadly in line with those of the Companys more relevant industry peers.
MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director, and is chaired by Mrs Whittet.
The duties of the Management Engagement Committee in discharging its responsibilities are outlined in the diagram on page 48.
The Management Engagement Committee carries out its review of the Companys advisers through consideration of a number of objective and subjective criteria and through a review of the terms and conditions of the advisers appointments: with the aim of evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring value for money for the Companys shareholders.
During the year, the Management Engagement Committee formally reviewed the performance of the Investment Adviser and other key service providers to the Company and no material weaknesses were identified.
Overall the Committee confirmed its satisfaction with the services and advice received.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director, and is chaired by Mr Stares.
The Committee is formally charged by the Board to consider the structure, size, remuneration and composition of the Board.
It also oversees the appointment and re-appointment of Directors, taking into account the expertise of the candidates and their independence see page 48 for more detail on the Committee.
As part of its ongoing remit, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee undertook an evaluation of the performance of the Board and Chairman.
Each Director was asked to provide written feedback regarding the performance of the Board as a whole and the Chairman, set against a range of best practice corporate governance criteria.
A report of this feedback was considered by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
No material issues were identified by the Directors regarding the performance of the Board and Chairman.
The Board notes that in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code for FTSE 350 companies, the Company undertakes externally facilitated evaluation every three years.
The last external evaluation was undertaken in 2014 and the Board have agreed that an external review will be carried out in 2017.
Ahead of the anticipated changes in chairmanship role of the existing Board following Mr Doreys retirement as Chairman at the 2018 AGM, the Board also discussed succession planning.
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The Investment Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director, and is chaired by Mr Dorey, as Chairman of the Company.
The Committee considers proposals relating to the acquisition and disposal of investments and, if thought fit, approve those proposals.
Details of the transactions invested in during the period are outlined on page 15 of the Strategic Report.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE The full Board meets at least four times per year and in addition there is regular contact between the Board, the Investment Adviser, the Administrator and the Company Secretary.
The agenda and supporting papers are distributed in advance of quarterly Board and Committee meetings to allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at the meetings.
The table below lists Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year, to the date of this report.
49 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 QUARTERLY AD-HOC AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT REMUNERATION AND DIRECTORS BOARD BOARD COMMITTEE ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Maximum number 4 7 5 2 6 2 Rupert Dorey 4 6 5 2 6 2 John Le Poidevin 4 6 5 2 6 2 1 Giles Frost 4 N A N A N A N A N A John Stares 4 4 5 2 4 2 John Whittle 4 5 5 2 6 2 Claire Whittet 4 5 5 2 6 2 1 Mr Frost is not a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, Management Engagement Committee or Investment Committee.
While Mr Frost attended the majority of Ad-hoc Board and Committee meetings, as these meetings considered recommendations from the Investment Adviser his presence does not count towards the quorum so has been excluded from this tally.
RELATIONSHIP WITH ADMINISTRATOR AND COMPANY SECRETARY Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as Administrator and Company Secretary, and is responsible to the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with Guernsey Company Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, the regulatory requirements of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission, anti-money laundering regulations and observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it adheres to applicable legislation, rules and regulations under Guernsey Law, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE INVESTMENT ADVISER The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA, Amber Fund Management Limited a member of the Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited group of companies acts as Investment Adviser to the Company to review and monitor investments and to advise the Company in relation to strategic management of the investment portfolio.
CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS AND FEES The IAA allows for the provision of investment advisory and certain other financial services to the Board.
In return, the Investment Adviser receives fees based on the Gross Asset Value GAV and composition of the investment portfolio as well as a contribution to expenses.
The annual base fees are detailed in note [17] to the financial statements and calculated at the following rates: - 1.2% for that part of the portfolio that bears construction risk i. e. the asset has not fully completed all construction stages including any relevant defects period and achieved certification by the relevant counterparty and senior lender - For fully operational assets: 1.2% for the first 750 million of GAV of the portfolio 1.0% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 750 million in GAV but is less than 1.5 billion 0.9% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 1.5 billion in GAV In addition, GAV excludes uncommitted cash from capital raisings.
The Company has a long-standing relationship with the Investment Adviser and the Board believes that the continuation of this relationship, on a long-term basis, is in the Companys best interest.
The current Investment Advisory Agreement IAA was renegotiated in 2013 and has a ten-year fixed term with a five-year notice period.
The Board considers that, given the long-term nature of the Companys investments, its responsibility for the detailed day-to-day delivery of management services and relationships with public sector clients, it is important that it benefits from the continuity of service provided by a long-term advisory partner.
In order to ensure that shareholder interests are protected, termination provisions have been put in place to ensure that, in the event of poor investment performance, the Company has the flexibility to remove the Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser is also entitled to receive an asset origination fee of 1.5% of the value of new investments acquired by the Group.
It should be noted that, generally, the Investment Adviser bears the risk of abortive transaction origination costs and that this fee has been waived or reduced by agreement in the past where it has been deemed appropriate to do so for the transaction in question.
Certain discretionary fees that were previously included in the IAA had not in fact been paid to the Investment Adviser.
Such equity raising and disposal fees were formally removed from the IAA in October 2015.
50 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 Cash receipts from capital raisings and tap issuances are not included in the GAV for the purposes of the calculation of base fees until such receipts are invested for the first time.
MAKING NEW INVESTMENTS As outlined above, the Investment Committee, comprised of independent Directors of the Company, make investment decisions with respect to new investments after reviewing recommendations made by the Companys Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser has a detailed set of procedures and approval processes in relation to the recommendation of new investments to the Board.
It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Investment Adviser.
It is likely that some of these investments will have been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may be acquired from, other members of the Investment Advisers Group.
Where that is the case the conflicts management process summarised below is followed.
MANAGING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with conflicts of interest that may arise on investments acquired from the Investment Advisers Group, and manage conduct in respect of any such acquisitions.
As previously mentioned, the Companys Board has a majority of independent members and a Chairman who is independent of the Investment Adviser.
Each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussions.
The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include when an Amber entity is an existing investor in the target entity while an associated company, AFML, acts on the buyside as Investment Adviser to the Company.
The Investment Advisory Agreement contains procedures with the intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the vendors: and on the buyside the Company as Investment Adviser must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the terms for and the price of the acquisition.
Key features of these procedures include: - The creation of separate committees representing the interests of the vendors on the one hand the Sellside Committee and the Company on the other the Buyside Committee, to ensure arms length recommendation and approval processes.
The membership of each committee is restricted in such a way as to ensure its independence and to minimise conflicts of interest arising - A requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct and report to the Company on an independent due diligence process on the assets proposed to be acquired prior to making an offer - A requirement for any offer made for the assets to be supported by advice on the fair market value for the transaction from an independent expert - The establishment of information barriers between the Buyside and Sellside Committees to ensure information is kept confidential to one or the other side - The provision of a release letter to each employee of the relevant associate of the Investment Adviser, who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall be treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee to the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion necessary for him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside Committee or Sellside Committee - Individuals with material direct or indirect economic interests in the relevant assets will not participate in Buyside Committee and Sellside Committee discussions regarding the relevant assets - A requirement that the financial statements, policies and records of any such asset offered to the Company be compliant with the Companys accounting policies and procedures The acquisition of all assets, including those from any associate of the Investment Adviser is considered and approved in advance by the Investment Committee.
In considering any such acquisition, the Committee will, as it deems necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee of the Investment Adviser and the Groups other advisers and the acquisition will be approved by the Committee on the basis of this advice.
The purpose of these procedures is to ensure that the terms upon which any investment is acquired from a member of the Amber group is on an arms length basis.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is responsible for overall risk management with delegation provided to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system of risk management and internal control has been designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the materiality of relevant risks and therefore the system of internal control cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
51 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 This process is outlined in further detail in the Risk Report found on pages 29 to 37.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great importance on communication with shareholders.
It has responsibility for communication with the investor base and is directly involved in major communications and announcements.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors, including the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, are available to meet shareholders as required.
In addition to more formal investor events, such as Results Presentations, the Investment Adviser conducts the day-to-day investor relations activities for the Company.
It meets with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
During 2016, the Investment Adviser and members of the Board held formal meetings with over 100 individual shareholders in addition to day-to-day interaction, including calls and other forms of correspondence.
The Board is also informed on a regular basis of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, Administrator and the Companys Broker.
The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and with the Investment Adviser of the Company.
It is the Boards policy to publish the results of the voting at the AGM via RNS at the completion of the meeting.
To promote a clear understanding of the Company, its objectives and financial results, the Board aims to ensure that information relating to the Company is disclosed in a timely manner.
The Company has an investor relations section on its website www.
com where it makes available all its publicly disclosed documents including Annual Reports and RNS announcements, together with additional background information on its assets and corporate practices.
Investors can register to receive notification via email of RNS announcements the Company issues.
The Board encourages investors to utilise this useful online resource.
Any shareholder issues of concern including on corporate governance or strategy can be addressed in writing to the Company at its registered office address see back cover.
