RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance independent non-executive directors Chairmans introduction and retiring some of our longer serving Sound corporate Dear Shareholder non-executive directors.
A key challenge for the NOMDAC has been to implement governance is implicit I am pleased to present the 2016 annual this programme in such a manner so as corporate governance report which to bring in new and diverse perspectives, in our values, culture, describes our approach to corporate while retaining the level of knowledge and governance.
processes, functions experience necessary for the continued Before looking in detail at our governance success of the group.
The retirement and organisational and appointments in 2014 and 2015 of framework, I would like to make some comments on how the board has delivered non-executive directors have enabled this, structure bringing a fresh outlook to the board and against its priorities for the year, the boards composition and how the performance of greater diversity of skills, backgrounds and thought.
Theretention of some of our the board has been evaluated, and about stakeholder engagement that has taken longer serving non-executive directors has enabled continuity and stability, and I am place during the year.
In addition, I would like to specifically comment on changes grateful for their commitment to Investec.
The NOMDAC continues to keep the that have taken place to ensure that we have in place the executive leadership composition of the board under review and will propose changes, as necessary, essential for the long-term success of our business, and to look forward to our inorder to retain the optimum attributes.
key areas of focus for 2016 and beyond.
This year has seen some further However, before that, I would like to provide change to the board some important context regarding our In accordance with the structured culture, values and philosophies, which refreshment programme agreed by are and will continue to be at the core of the board, Haruko Fukuda did not everything we do.
seek re-election as a director at the 2015 annual general meeting, and OUR CULTURE, VALUES AND accordingly stepped down from the PHILOSOPHIES board at the conclusion of the 2015 Sound corporate governance depends annual general meeting upon much more than processes and Bradley Fried, who was appointed as a procedures, it fundamentally depends non-executive director on 1 April 2010, upon the people and the culture within stepped down from the board with an organisation.
At Investec, sound effect from 1April 2016. corporate governance is embedded in our values, culture, processes, functions and Board and directors effectiveness organisational structure.
Our values require review that directors and employees behave The board is committed to regularly with integrity, displaying consistent and evaluating its own effectiveness and that uncompromising moral strength in order of its committees.
In this light, the board to promote and maintain trust.
The board undertakes an evaluation of its performance sets the tone from the top in the manner in and that of its committees and individual which it conducts itself and oversees the structures and the framework for corporate directors annually, with independent governance.
Each business area and every external input to the process every third employee of the group is responsible for year.
The board agreed that the 2016 acting in accordance with our values and review of the boards effectiveness would philosophies and we conduct our business be facilitated by Professor RobGoffee and measure behaviour and practices of the London Business School, an against them so as to ensure that we independent third party service provider.
demonstrate the characteristics of good The findings of the 2016 review were governance.
presented to the board, an action plan developed and updates on progress made THE PAST YEAR IN FOCUS against these actions will be provided to the board on a regular basis.
Composition of the board In 2014, the board, on the recommendation of the nominations and directors' affairs committee NOMDAC, implemented a structured refreshment programme so as to ensure that we are recruiting new Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 124 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued Management succession PRIORITIES FOR THE NEW YEAR Governance framework Succession planning has remained a key In broad terms, our priorities for 2016, from Investec Limited and Investec plc, together area of focus during the year.
Investec a corporate governance perspective, are with their subsidiaries, are merged as a announced at the time we presented the asfollows: single economic enterprise as a result of the groups interim results in November 2015 dual listed companies DLC structure.
that, in pursuit of sustained growth across Strategy its businesses, the group restructured The group adopted a risk and governance The successful implementation and certain operating responsibilities with structure, which allows for the operation execution of the groups strategic intentions the aim of achieving the following broad of the various committees and forums at have provided a solid foundation on which objectives: group level.
to build and deliver returns going forward.
To maintain differentiated businesses Investecs governance framework Board effectiveness that are integrated and coordinated is depicted on page 50.
As we noted above, it is important to under the Investec brand, while periodically obtain an independent This avoids the necessity of having to focused on providing the best solution perspective as to whether the board is duplicate various committees and forums at for the client functioning effectively.
Having reviewed the a subsidiary level.
Due to the DLC structure, assessment, the directors were satisfied To facilitate the growth of businesses we have combined board committees that the board was operating effectively.
with direct management responsibility of Investec Limited and Investec plc.
There are areas where we can improve and and accountability Full disclosure of the functioning and we will continue to refine and improve our responsibilities of these board committees To ensure talented future leaders are processes to do so.
can be found in Investecs 2016 integrated in place for the long-term success of annual report.
As noted above, the restructure of certain Changes included the appointment of operating responsibilities was announced Regulatory context Ciaran Whelan and David van der Walt as on 18 November 2015.
Embedding the The disclosure of our governance practices joint global heads of the Specialist Bank, restructure will be a key area of focus for requires a description of the regulatory and the appointment of Richard Wainwright the group going forward.
context that Investec, as a dual listed as chief executive officer of Investec Bank company DLC, operates within.
Investec has always Regulatory and governance maintained a policy of growing talent from The regulatory and governance environment We operate under a DLC structure, and within, and the majority of the groups that the group operates within continues consider the corporate governance leaders have an extensive history with the to evolve rapidly.
IntheUnited Kingdom, principles and regulations of both the group and are valued for their institutional we have seen the implementation of the UK and South Africa before adopting the knowledge and expertise.
The changes Senior Managers Regime and emerging appropriate standard for the group which implemented have positioned Investec guidance on principles of good governance also complies with requirements in both for sustained growth with an enhanced applicable to our regulated subsidiaries.
All international business operational focus.
Stephen Koseff remains units operate in accordance with the group chief executive officer and Bernard Culture and values above determined corporate governance Kantor group managing director.
They Our culture and values have always been principles, in addition to those of their continue to focus on group strategy, at the heart of how we operate, and we jurisdiction, but with clear adherence at all development and growth of the Investec believe the strength with which these times to group values and culture.
global businesses, and the positioning of are embedded and lived throughout the the group among all stakeholders.
organisation distinguishes Investec from The corporate governance disclosures others.
Safeguarding our culture to ensure that follow focus on those applicable to Shareholder engagement good conduct and ethical practice will our UK businesses.
During the course of 2015, the board promote the delivery of our long-term embarked on a series of shareholder The board, management and employees success and will remain a key focus of consultations.
The primary focus of the of Investec are committed to complying theboard.
consultation was the revised executive with the disclosure, transparency and incentive arrangements put to shareholders listing rules of the United Kingdom Listing CONCLUSION at the 2015 annual general meeting.
Authority UKLA and the UK Corporate The following pages of this report describe Governance Code the Code which was The consultations also provided an in more detail the governance framework, issued by the UKs Financial Reporting opportunity to discuss governance and the structures that are in place to Council in 2010, revised in September2012 more broadly with shareholders.
Froma ensure that Investec is able to maintain the with the most recent version being governance perspective, the dialogue highest standards of corporate governance.
published in September 2014 for reporting centred on the composition of the board, periods commencing after 1 October 2014. while on remuneration the discussion related to the appropriate linkage between Therefore, all stakeholders are assured pay and performance.
that we are being managed ethically and Fani Titi Chairman in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
15 June 2016 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 125 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued resulting in alignment with no changes to the significant commitments Statement of compliance shareholder interests and, as of the chairman during the period under previously disclosed, there will review.
The chairman resides in South UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE be no deferral of any short-term Africa but spends approximately a week a CODE month in the UK.
incentive until such time as the The board is of the opinion that, based on debt taken out by HendrikduToit The board has not appointed a deputy the practices disclosed throughout this to fund his investment in IAM has chairman.
report, which were in operation during the been repaid.
year under review, the group has complied Senior independent director The directors' remuneration with the relevant provisions set out in the Perry Crosthwaite is the senior independent report on pages 159 to 201 in UK Corporate Governance Code, except as director.
He is available to address any volume one of Investecs 2016 disclosed below: concerns or questions from shareholders integrated annual report provides and non-executive directors.
In addition, he D1.1 states that performance-related details of the remuneration policy leads the board in the assessment of the remuneration schemes for executive and the implementation of that effectiveness of the chairman.
directors should include provisions that policy for all directors.
would enable the company to recover Board of directors sums paid or withhold the payment of Leadership The board is responsible for creating and any sum, and specify the circumstances delivering sustainable shareholder value by in which it would be appropriate to Chairman and chief executive providing overall strategic direction within a do so.
The current remuneration officer framework of risk appetite and controls.
arrangements for Hendrik du Toit do not The roles of the chairman and chief include provisions to recover sums that executive officer are distinct and separate.
The board has adopted a board charter have already been paid or to withhold the which is reviewed annually and which payment of anysums.
Theremuneration The chairman is responsible for setting provides, a framework of how the board of HendrikduToit continues to be the board agenda, ensuring that there is operates as well as the type of decisions to determined by reference to the sufficient time available for discussion of all be taken by the board and which decisions remuneration policy of the Investec Asset items, that information received is accurate, should be delegated to management.
This is timely and clear to enable the directors to deemed appropriate by the remuneration perform their duties effectively.
In keeping For more information on the boards committee for the following reasons: with Investecs culture and values, the objectives, role and responsibilities refer to chairman encourages open and honest Hendrik du Toit is the chief Investecs 2016 integrated annual report.
debate between all board directors.
executive officer of IAM and is not Biographical details of the classified as a material risk taker for The board does not consider that the directors are set out on pages 137 the purpose of the PRA regulations chairmans external commitments interfere and 138, with more information applicable to Investec Bank plc with his performance and responsibilities inInvestecs 2016 integrated The management of IAM, including to Investec.
The board is satisfied that the annual report.
HendrikduToit, undertook a chairman makes sufficient time available to serve Investec effectively.
There have been substantial investment in IAM, The names of the directors at the date of this report, the year of their appointment and their independence status for the year under review are set out below: Date of appointment Investec plc Investec Limited Independent EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS S Koseff group chief executive officer 26 Jun 2002 6 Oct 1986 B Kantor group managing director 26 Jun 2002 8 Jun 1987 GR Burger group risk and finance director 3 Jul 2002 3 Jul 2002 HJ du Toit 15 Dec 2010 15 Dec 2010 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS F Titi chairman 30 Jan 2004 30 Jan 2004 On appointment ZBM Bassa 1 Nov 2014 1 Nov 2014 Yes LC Bowden 1 Jan 2015 1 Jan 2015 Yes CA Carolus 18 Mar 2005 18 Mar 2005 Yes PKO Crosthwaite senior independent director 18 Jun 2010 18 Jun 2010 Yes D Friedland 1 Mar 2013 1 Mar 2013 Yes CR Jacobs 8 Aug 2014 8 Aug 2014 Yes IR Kantor 26 Jun 2002 30 Jul 1980 No Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG 8 Aug 2014 8 Aug 2014 Yes KL Shuenyane 8 Aug 2014 8 Aug 2014 Yes PRS Thomas 26 Jun 2002 29 Jun 1981 Yes Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 126 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued INDEPENDENCE BALANCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: Chairman 1 Pre-2014 AGM Post-2014 AGM Executives 4 Non-executives 10 64% 24.0% Independent 27.0% Independent OF BOARD INDEPENDENT 76.0% Non-independent 73.0% Non-independent Aspirational target: DIVERSITY Per the Davies Report: 25% female representation by 2015 GEOGRAPHICAL MIX BOARD GENDER BALANCE: Pre-2014 AGM Post-2014 AGM 76.0% Male 80.0% Male 53.0% South Africa 24.0% Female 20.0% Female 47.0% UK including Europe TENURE AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE: Pre-2014 AGM: 8 years average Post-2014 AGM: 5 years average Average length of service: Length of service by band for non-executive directors UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RECOMMENDATION: Recommendation that non- 6 0 3 years 5 0 3 years executives should not serve longer 2 3 6 years 2 3 6 years than nine years from the time of 6 9 years 6 9 years their appointment.
5 9 years plus 4 9 years plus Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 127 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued advised on matters of governance, form Composition, structure and Accountability or procedure.
process FINANCIAL REPORTING AND At the end of the year under review, the BOARD COMMITTEES GOING CONCERN board, excluding the chairmen, comprised four executive directors and 12 nonIn exercising control of the group, the The directors have confirmed that they executive directors.
directors are empowered to delegate to are satisfied that the group, as well various board and executive committees.
as Investecplc and Investec Limited Refer to Investecs 2016 integrated annual The committees have specific terms of individually, have adequate resources to report for disclosures on: reference, appropriately skilled members continue in business for the foreseeable and access to specialist advice when future.
The assumptions underlying the Board changes during the past year necessary.
going concern statement are discussed Board meetings at the time of the approval of the annual The full terms of reference are financial results by the board and these Independence of board members and available on our website.
The include: the chairmen reports of the chairmen of the Budgeting and forecasts board committees are provided Terms of appointment in Investecs 2016 integrated Profitability Independent advice annual report.
Capital For ease of reference, the Skills, knowledge, experience and reportby the chairman of the attributes of directors Liquidity Investecplc audit committee is Board and directors performance included on pages 132 to 136.
evaluation The board is of the opinion, based on its Ongoing training and development knowledge of the group, key processes Management and in operation and enquiries, that there are External directorships succession planning adequate resources to support the group as Global business unit heads, geographic a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Dealings in securities management and the heads of central Further information on our liquidity IT governance.
and group service functions are appointed andcapital position is provided on by executive management and endorsed pages 89 to 97 and pages 104 by the board, based on the skills and COMPANY SECRETARY to118.
experience deemed necessary to perform David Miller is the company secretary the required function.
In general, managers Furthermore, the board is of the opinion of Investec plc.
The company secretary do not have fixed-term employment that the groups risk management is professionally qualified and has contracts and there are no employment processes and the systems of internal experience gained over a number of contracts with managers for a term of more control operate effectively.
His services are evaluated by than three years.
board members during the annual board The directors are responsible for monitoring evaluation process.
He is responsible for Our management structure, reporting and reviewing the preparation, integrity and the flow of information to the board and its lines and the division of responsibilities are reliability of the Investec plc consolidated committees and for ensuring compliance built around a geographic, divisional and financial statements, accounting policies with board procedures.
All directors have functional network.
and the information contained in the access to the advice and services of the integrated annual report, and to ensure Each strategic business unit has a company secretary whose appointment that the annual financial statements are fair, and removal are a board matter.
management committee and is responsible balanced and understandable.
for implementing operational decisions, The board has considered and is satisfied In undertaking this responsibility, the managing risk and aligning divisional that the company secretary is competent, directors are supported by an ongoing objectives with the group strategy and vision.
has the relevant qualifications and process for identifying, evaluating and experience and maintains an arms length The NOMDAC receives a detailed managing the key risks Investec faces in relationship with the board.
In evaluating presentation from the executive regarding preparing the financial and other information these qualities, the board has considered senior management succession and the contained in this integrated annual report.
the prescribed role and duties pursuant NOMDAC is satisfied that there is a formal This process was in place for the year to the requirements codified in the UK management succession plan in place.
under review and up to the date of approval Companies Acts and the listings and The NOMDAC will continue to focus on of this integrated annual report and governance requirements as applicable.
ensuring that the management succession annual financial statements.
The process In addition, the board confirms that for is implemented by management and plan remains up to date.
the period 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 independently monitored for effectiveness Senior management succession plans are the company secretary did not serve by the audit, risk and other sub-committees also presented annually to the banking as a director on the board nor did he of the board.
take part in board deliberations and only Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 128 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued Our annual financial statements are The board believes that the risk The group targets a minimum capital prepared on a going concern basis.
adequacy ratio of 14% to 17%, a common management systems and processes we have in place are adequate to support equity tier 1 ratio in excess of 10% and a VIABILITY STATEMENT thegroups strategy and allow the leverage ratio in excess of 6% for each of group tooperate within its risk appetite its bankingentities.
In addition to providing a going concern framework.
A review of the groups statement, the board is required, in terms The parameters used in the capital and performance measurement against its of the UK Corporate Governance Code, liquidity stresses are reviewed regularly, risk appetite framework is provided at to make a statement with respect to the taking into account changes in the business each BRCC meeting and at the main groups viability i. e. its ability to continue environments and inputs from business boardmeetings.
in operation and meet its liabilities taking units.
A detailed bottom-up analysis into account the current position of the is performed in designing Investecs In terms of the UK Financial Conduct group, the boards assessment of the Authority FCA and Prudential Regulation specific stress scenarios.
The group also groups prospects and the principal risks it Authority PRA requirements, the group is incorporates the Bank of England BOE faces.
Following confirmation by the BRCC also required to meet regulatory standards anchor stresses into its capital and liquidity comprising a majority of non-executive with respect to capital and liquidity.
As the groups banking entities directors, which includes members of the are regulated separately and ring-fenced of these requirements, the group is required audit committees the audit committees to stress its capital and liquidity positions from one another, different stress scenarios recommended the viability statement for apply across the respective banking entities under a number of severe stress conditions.
Investecs stress testing framework is well The board has identified the embedded in its operations and is designed Investec plc runs a number of stress principal and emerging risks to identify and regularly test the groups key scenarios, some of which are briefly facing the group and these are vulnerabilities under stress.
highlighted below: highlighted on pages 20 to 28.
The BOE Anchor Scenario: this Scenario modelling and rigorous daily scenario incorporates a UK slowdown Through its various sub-committees, liquidity stress tests are performed in GDP growth, a slump in Pounds notably the audit committees, the group risk to measure and manage the groups Sterling, a significant increase in and capital committee GRCC, the BRCC respective banking entities liquidity inflation and interest rates in the UK and the capital committees, the board positions such that payment obligations can regularly carries out a robust assessment be met under a wide range of companyA scenario where there is an oil of these risks, and their potential impact specific and market-driven stress scenarios.
price shock with prices increasing on the performance, liquidity and solvency The objective is to have sufficient liquidity, substantially.
This would result in a in an acute stress scenario, to continue to of the group.
The activities of these board significant deterioration in global risk sub-committees and the issues considered operate for a minimum period as detailed sentiment.
UK inflation rises and spirals in the board-approved risk appetite and as by them are described in this governance to a CPI peak of 5%.
The UK economy required by the regulators.
The groups risk section of this report.
undergoes a severe recession with appetite also requires each banking entity GDP falling from peak to trough by Taking these risks into account, together to maintain a minimum cash to customer over 4%.
National house prices fall over with the groups strategic objectives and the deposit ratio of 25%, and ensure that the 20% and in London by over 45%, and prevailing market environment, the board respective banking entities are not reliant the FTSE falls close to 30% approved the overall risk appetite for the on wholesale funding to fund core asset Investec group.
The groups risk appetite growth.
Each banking entity is required to A scenario where global growth statement sets broad parameters relating to be fully self-funded.
Our banking business disappoints and there is a collapse the boards expectations around performance, exceeds the regulatory requirements for in the oil price which pushes down business stability and risk management.
the net stable funding ratio and liquidity inflation and leads to a deflationary coverage ratio.
Investec plc currently has mindset.
There is a period of stagnation The board considers that prudential 5.1 billion in cash and near cash assets, which moderately impacts UK GDP.
risk management is paramount in representing 47.0% of customer deposits.
UK interest rates are cut into negative all it does.
National house prices in customers interests, capital adequacy The group develops annual capital plans the UK are negatively impacted as and shareholder returns are key drivers.
that look forward over a three-year period.
To manage the groups risk appetite These plans are designed to assess there are a number of detailed policy the capital adequacy of the groups In addition, during the year, the group statements and governance structures respective banking entities under a range incorporated a number of new stress in place.
The board ensures that there of economic and internal conditions, with scenarios into its liquidity and capital are appropriate resources in place to the impact on earnings, asset growth, plans, including for example, a Brexit manage the risks arising from running risk appetite and liquidity considered.
We also carry out reverse stress our business by having independent risk The output of capital planning allows tests, i. e. those scenarios that would management, compliance, and financial cause the group to breach its capital and senior management and the board to control functions.
These are supplemented make decisions to ensure that the group liquidity requirements.
These scenarios are by an Internal Audit function that reports considered highly unlikely, given the groups continues to hold sufficient capital to meet independently to a non-executive audit internal and regulatory capital targets strong liquidity position and sound capital committee chairman.
over the medium term i. e. threeyears.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 129 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued Furthermore, the group is required to Pages 3 to 11 which show a strategic provides reasonable, but not absolute, have a recovery and resolution plan for and financial overview of the business assurance against material error, omission, both Investec Limited and Investec plc.
This is achieved within Pages 20 to 28 which provide detail The purpose of the recovery plans are the group through a combination of risk on the principal and emerging risks the to document how the board and senior identification, evaluation and monitoring group faces management will ensure that the group processes, appropriate decision as well as recovers from extreme financial stress to oversight forums, and assurance and control Page 49 which highlights information on avoid liquidity and capital difficulties in its functions such as Group Risk Management, the groups risk appetite framework separately regulated companies.
Pages 45 to 47 which provide an The capital and liquidity plans, stress The board identifies the principal risks overview of the groups approach to scenarios, recovery and resolution plans facing the group, and carries out a robust risk management, and the processes and the risk appetite statement are assessment of those risks, their potential inplace to assist the group in mitigating reviewed at least annually.
In addition, impact on the business, and how they can its principal risks senior management hosts an annual be mitigated.
three-day risk appetite process at which Pages 53, 80, 86, 89, 107 and 108 Internal Audit reports any control the groups risk appetite framework which highlight information on the recommendations to senior management, is reviewed and modified to take into groups various stress testing processes Group Risk Management and the relevant account risk experience and changes in Pages 89 to 94 which specifically audit committee.
Furthermore, strategic including review by the audit committees focus on the groups philosophy and budget processes which focus on, amongst approach to liquidity management support structures, ensure that timely other things, the business and competitive corrective action is taken on matters raised landscape: opportunities and challenges: Pages 104 to 108 which explain the by Internal Audit.
financial projections take place within groups capital management framework.
each business division at least annually.
Significant risks are regularly considered by A summary of these divisional budgets, This forward-looking viability statement the executive risk review forum ERRF and together with a consolidated group budget, made by the board is based on by the GRCC and BRCC.
Material incidents is presented to the board during its information and knowledge of the group at and losses and significant breaches of strategic review process early in the year.
There could be a number systems and controls are reported to the of risks and uncertainties arising from BRCC and the audit committees.
Reports In assessing the groups viability, the board but not limited to domestic and global from the audit committees, BRCC and risk has taken all of the abovementioned economic and business conditions beyond and control functions are reviewed at each factors, documents and processes into the groups control that could cause the board meeting.
The directors can confirm groups actual results, performance or that they have a reasonable expectation that Risk management, including information achievements in the markets in which it Investec will continue to operate and meet operates to differ from those anticipated.
on the principal risks facing the group and its liabilities as they fall due over the next how they are managed is described in three years.
The board has used a three-year more detail in section three of this annual RISK MANAGEMENT AND assessment period as this is aligned to the report.
A statement on how the board has INTERNAL CONTROL groups medium-term capital plans which assessed the longer term prospects of the incorporate profitability, liquidity, leverage and Risks and controls are reviewed and group, with regard to the groups current capital adequacy projections and include monitored regularly for relevance and position and these risks, are set out in the impact assessments from a number of stress effectiveness.
The BRCC, GRCC and audit groups viability statement.
The board has assessed the committees assist the board in this regard.
groups viability in its base case and down INTERNAL FINANCIAL Sound risk management practices are case scenarios.
Detailed management CONTROLS promoted by the group risk management information therefore exists to provide senior function, which is independent of operational management and the board sufficient and Internal financial controls are based on management.
The board recognises its realistic visibility of the groups viability over established policies and procedures.
responsibility for the overall risk and control the next three years to 31March 2019 under Management is responsible for implementing framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
internal financial controls, ensuring that Inaccordance with the FRCs Guidance personnel are suitably qualified, that In assessing the groups viability, a number on Risk Management, Internal Control and appropriate segregation exists between of assumptions are built into its capital and Related Financial and Business Reporting, duties, and that there is suitable independent liquidity plans.
In the down case scenario the board, with the assistance of the risk review.
These areas are monitored by the these include, for example, dividend management functions and committees, board through the audit committees and are payments being reduced and asset growth continuously monitors the groups system of independently assessed by Internal Audit being curtailed.
internal control and risk management, and and Compliance.
Processes are in place annually reviews its effectiveness.
The viability statement should be read in to monitor internal control effectiveness, conjunction with the following sections in the identify and report material breakdowns, and Internal control is designed to mitigate, annual report, all of which have informed the not eliminate, significant risks faced.
ensure that timely and appropriate corrective boards assessment of the groups viability: It is recognised that such a system action is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 130 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued Relations coordinate, review and comment audit, resulting from the provision of nonDIRECTORS DEALINGS on the monthly financial and regulatory audit services by the external auditors.
The remuneration report in reports, and facilitate the interim and annual For further details on non-audit Investecs 2016 integrated annual financial reporting process, including the report contains details of Investec services see note 6 on page 171. external audit process.
COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDIT Directors dealings in the securities of The compliance function ensures that Investec plc and Investec Limited are Each significant jurisdiction has an internal Investec continuously complies with existing subject to a policy based on the Disclosure audit presence that is appropriate for and emerging regulation impacting on its and Transparency Rules of the UKLA and the size, nature and extent of business operations.
We recognise our responsibility the JSE Listings Requirements.
Smaller geographies are to conduct business in accordance with the supported by the Internal Audit teams of the All directors and company secretaries laws and regulations in the countries and Investec plc and Investec Limitedgroups.
dealings require the prior approval of the areas in which we operate.
The compliance Compliance division and the chairman, the A risk-based audit approach is followed function is managed by Group Compliance senior independent director or the chairman and the audit committee approves annual and supported by the compliance officers in of the audit committees.
All dealings of persons discharging For further details on Internal For further details on the compliance management responsibilities require Audit, refer to page 121. function, refer to pages 122 approval by line management, the and123.
Compliance division and the chairman.
EXTERNAL AUDIT REGULATION AND SUPERVISION Investec plcs external auditors are Ernst VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT & Young LLP.
Theindependence of the Investec is subject to external regulation and external auditors is reviewed by the audit supervision by various supervisory authorities We have a strong organisational culture committees each year.
in each of the jurisdictions in which we of entrenched values, which forms the operate, the main ones being the UK PRA and cornerstone of our behaviour towards all The audit committees meet with the external the FCA the UK regulators, and the Australian stakeholders.
These values are embodied in auditors to review the scope of the external Securities and Investment Commission.
a written statement of values, which serves audit, budgets, the extent of non-audit as our code of ethics and is continually services rendered and all other audit We strive to establish and maintain open reinforced.
The external auditors are invited and active dialogue with regulators and to attend audit committee meetings and supervisors.
Processes are in place to We view all employees as the custodians have access to the chairman of each audit respond proactively and pragmatically to of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced committee.
emerging issues and we report regularly through internal processes, policies and to the regulators and supervisory bodies.
As such all new employees Recommendations on the rotation of Where appropriate, we participate in are invited, and are strongly encouraged, auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing industry committees and discussion groups to attend an induction process at which Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well our philosophies, values, culture, risk to maintain and enhance the regulatory as Directive 6 2008 of the South African environment in which we operate.
management and compliance procedures Banks Act, were adhered to during the year are explained and discussed.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST Our organisational development team Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of Certain statutory duties with respect to plays an important role in facilitating the an agreed policy which states that: understanding and ongoing practice of directors conflicts of interest are in force our values, philosophies and culture.
In under the UK Companies Act 2006.
In External audit firms will have internal addition to our values, acceptable business accordance with the Act and the Articles standards and processes to monitor practices are communicated through of Association Articles of Investec plc, and maintain their independence and the human resources practices manual, the board may authorise any matter these must be presented to the audit available on the intranet.
that otherwise may involve the directors committees on an annual basis.
These breaching their duty to avoid conflicts will be considered based on the explicit of interest.
The board has adopted a exclusions contained in existing rules procedure, as set out in the Articles, that and guidelines includes a requirement for directors to Safeguards must be in place to ensure submit, in writing, disclosures detailing any that there is no threat to the objectivity actual or potential conflict for consideration and independence in the conduct of the and, if considered appropriate, approval.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 131 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued governance principles for audit committees The audit committees approve the annual Audit committees as required by the UK Disclosure and internal audit plan.
The heads of Internal Transparency Rules 7.1.
3R, the UK Audit for both Investec plc and Investec INTRODUCTION Corporate Governance Code and King III.
Limited have free access to the chairman of The audit committees are an essential part the audit committees or any member of the The board recognises the important role of the groups governance framework to audit committees and they attend all audit of the audit committees as part of the risk which the board has delegated oversight committee meetings by invitation.
management and corporate governance of the groups financial reporting, risk processes and procedures of the Investec External auditors from both the UK and South management, compliance, internal and group.
In this regard, the audit committees Africa attend audit committeemeetings.
have oversight of and monitor: This report provides an overview of the MEMBERSHIP AND Financial reporting process and risks work of the committees and details how it ATTENDANCE has discharged its duties over the year.
Fraud and IT risks as they relate to The audit committees are comprised entirely financial reporting Following the annual cycle of work of the of independent non-executive directors committees, we concluded that sound who must meet predetermined skills, The effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls competency and experience requirements.
internal controls, internal audit and risk have been maintained during the year.
management systems In aggregate the audit committees meet The committees were satisfied that the 12times per year.
The chairman, chief integrated annual report presents fairly and The statutory audit and group annual executive officer, managing director, provides a fair, balanced and understandable financial statements, the integrated group risk and finance director, heads of assessment of the groups financial position annual report as well as the interim results Compliance, IT, Operational Risk, Internal as at 31 March 2016, and the results of its The independence and performance Audit, Finance and representatives of operations for the year thenended.
of the statutory and internal auditor, the external auditors attend meetings and appropriateness of the statutory byinvitation.
BACKGROUND auditors provision of non-audit services.
A comprehensive meeting pack is prepared In terms of Investecs DLC structure, the At each audit committee meeting, the group with written reports received from the board has mandated authority to the chief executive officer, group managing external auditors and each of the above Investecplc and Investec Bank plc audit director and group risk and finance director functions.
They present on the significant committee and the Investec Limited and provide an in-depth assessment of their matters included in their reports.
Investec Bank Limited audit committee current risk-related concerns and the to be the audit committees for those The chairman of the audit committees procedures introduced by management to respective companies and their subsidiaries regularly meets with the heads of Internal control or mitigate theserisks.
with each having their own regulatory Audit as well as the lead external audit requirements to meet.
A DLC audit Following the completion of all group audit partners outside formal committee meetings committee which is the combined audit committee meetings, a written report is and with senior management to gain a better committee of Investec plc and Investec provided to the next meeting of the board understanding of the groups operations and Bank plc and Investec Limited and Investec of directors highlighting matters of which the risks and challenges itfaces.
Bank Limited has responsibility to the audit committee believes the board the board for matters common to both At the final results audit committee should be aware.
Investecplc and Investec Limited and, meetings, the external auditors and in particular, the combined group annual All responsibilities are covered in the audit internal auditors meet separately with the financial statements and results.
committee members to enable them to have a frank and open debate without the The audit committees comply with all legal The board has approved the executives being present.
and regulatory requirements as necessary termsof reference for the audit under both UK and South African legislation committees which can be found and listings rules, and apply the corporate on our website.
Attendance by members at audit committee meetings during the financial year ended 31March 2016: Investec plc and Investec Limited and DLC audit InvestecBank plc InvestecBank Limited committee audit committee audit committee Numbers of Number of Number of Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Members meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended D Friedland chairman 4 4 4 4 4 4 ZBM Bassa 4 4 4 4 4 4 LC Bowden 4 3 4 4 4 4 KL Shuenyane 4 4 4 4 4 4 PRS Thomas 4 2 4 4 4 4 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 132 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued Reviewed the risk assessment process Following confirmation by the BRCC SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS and the manner in which significant comprising a majority of non-executive REACHED BY THE AUDIT business risks are managed directors, which includes members of the COMMITTEES FOR THE YEAR audit committees, the audit committees ENDED 31MARCH 2016 Recommended to the board the recommended the viability statement for reappointment of our external auditors board approval.
The audit committees, to the best of our see external auditors below knowledge and belief, are satisfied that: The board subsequently approved the Focused on information security due integrated annual report, including the The finance functions of both to the ever increasing threat posed by annual financial statements, which will Investec plc and its subsidiaries and cybercrime and risks associated with be tabled for approval at the forthcoming Investec Limited and its subsidiaries mobile technology and social media annual general meeting.
are adequately skilled, resourced Confirmed the absence of any andexperienced EXTERNAL AUDITORS indicators of fraud with regard to The group risk and finance director, financial reporting.
Appointment and independence GRBurger, has the appropriate The audit committees recommended the The committee considers the expertise and experience to meet the adoption of the integrated annual report to reappointment of the external auditors each responsibilities of the position the board.
year before making a recommendation to The groups internal financial controls the board and shareholders.
It assesses In this regard the audit committees: are effective and all identified the independence of the external auditors weaknesses in financial control are on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors Considered facts and risks that may being addressed are required to rotate the lead audit partner impact on the integrity of the integrated every five years and other senior audit staff annual report The external auditors of both every seven years.
Partners and senior staff Investecplc and Investec Limited are, Reviewed and requested that changes associated with the Investec audit may only and remain, independent be made to disclosures to the annual be employed by the group after a cooling financial statements included in the off period.
The lead partner commenced his The external auditors perform their integrated annual report five-year rotation last year.
functions with the appropriate expertise, competence and experience.
Reviewed the disclosure of Although Ernst & Young has been the sustainability issues in the integrated groups auditors since listing on the London In fulfilling our duties, the audit committees annual report to ensure they are Stock Exchange in 2002, we continue to have: reliable and do not conflict with the believe that partner rotation, limitations on financialinformation non-audit services and the confirmation of Considered whether the integrated the independence of both Ernst & Young annual report taken as a whole was Obtained confirmation from the chief and the audit team are adequate safeguards fair, balanced and understandable and executive officer and group risk and to ensure that the audit process is both provided the information necessary finance director that they considered objective and effective.
In terms of the for stakeholders to assess the the disclosures to be fair, reasonable partner rotation process, Ernst & Youngs and balanced groupsperformance designated auditor in respect of Investec Limited will change effective 2017 from On the basis of the committees Reviewed, challenged and discussed Ernest van Rooyen to Farouk Mohideen.
membership of the BRCC, meetings with both management and the external with senior management, attending auditors material areas in which The committees evaluated the effectiveness board and strategy meetings and significant judgements were applied of the auditors through completion of a the audit committee process, the questionnaire which, inter alia, assessed Reviewed the Internal Audit function committee concluded that the the audit partners, audit team and audit including the process for evaluating integrated annual report taken approach planning and execution, during as a whole, is fair, reasonable the control environment, approved their presentations at audit committee the internal audit plan and considered and balanced and provides meetings and ad hoc meetings held with the information necessary for internal audit reports the auditors throughout the year.
Senior shareholders and other stakeholders finance function executives also provided Reviewed and considered to assess the groups performance, feedback to the committees.
representations by management on the business model and strategy going concern statement for the group Non-audit services As in prior years, engaged Grant The committees have adopted a policy on Based on liquidity levels, capital Thornton to verify all the environmental the engagement of the external auditors adequacy, capital plan and the 2017 data included in the report.
None of to provide non-audit services.
This policy, the audit firms engaged in the groups budget, recommended the adoption of designed to safeguard auditor objectivity the going concern concept to the board external audit were considered for and independence, includes guidelines on theproject.
Discussed with management the permitted and non-permitted services and process used to identify, measure and A viability statement is required to be made on services requiring specific approval by oversee tax risks for the first time.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 133 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued The committees review whether the Accounting and financial reporting of Compliance with laws and level of non-audit fees could impact the large or complex transactions regulations independence of the auditors.
This is Adherence to key regulatory issues Discussions were held with monitored by reference to the level of fees facing the group.
management and the external auditors paid for services, excluding services which Control weaknesses are required to be provided by the external with regard to large and complex auditors due to their office, against the fees Assessing the internal control transactions to ensure compliance paid for the audit of the group.
weaknesses identified by the assurance with accounting standards providers and ensuring appropriate For further details on non-audit Taxation steps are taken within prescribed and services refer to Investecs 2016 We examined and challenged specified time limits to mitigate and integrated annual report.
managements estimates of levels remedy such weaknesses.
of taxation expected to be payable in respect of transactions currently IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INTERNAL AUDIT being challenged by the Revenue The new standard includes revised Authorities, including review of The committees are responsible for guidance on classification and correspondence by our external monitoring and reviewing the scope and measurement of financial assets including adviser.
the effectiveness of the Internal Audit a new expected credit loss model for function.
Both the Investec Limited and The internal and external auditors provided calculating impairments.
Investec plc heads of Internal Audit have detailed reporting in respect of these a direct reporting line to the chairman of The group has established an IFRS 9 keyareas.
the audit committees and regularly meet steering committee comprising executive with him to discuss progress with the audit In addition, the audit committees representation and key management plans, resourcing and setting their annual considered the following themes: from Risk, Finance, Analytics and IT.
Internal Audit was subject to a Thecommittee is accountable for IFRS9 Cybercrime quality assurance review in 2014, with the implementation and is supported by The group continues to experience next review scheduled for 2019. working groups responsible for different an escalation in attempted IT fraud workstreams.
Thecommittee provides and other forms of cybercrime.
RISKS ADDRESSED DURING updates on the status of the project to the Considerable effort and time have THEYEAR UNDER REVIEW appropriate board committees.
been devoted by management to Detailed below are significant audit risks the ensure that IT controls are robust and The group continues to evaluate the overall committees focused on: appropriate solutions are deployed effect of IFRS 9, but it is not practicable to protect the group from increased to quantify the effect as at the date of the Monitoring of credit quality and the threat levels.
publication of these financial statements.
appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses In the latter part of 2015, we engaged The audit committees will use the lead time an independent specialist company to challenge managements assessment of We discussed with management and to conduct a simulated cyberattack the standards effect and remain abreast the auditors the specific and collective against the group.
While certain ofits implementation plans.
loan provision process, and considered technical weaknesses were identified, the reasonableness of the allowance the conclusion of the testers was that relative to the quality of the book and our ability to detect and respond to related collateral a targeted attack is above average, Valuation of financial instruments compared against our peers.
Unlisted Remedial steps are being taken to investments often require a large address the weaknesses and our degree of subjectivity surrounding the security controls are continually various inputs to their valuations enhanced, in response to the evolving We met with management and the threat landscape.
Another simulated external auditors to discuss and attack is scheduled for later this year.
challenge, inter alia, the discount rates, Liquidity risk credit spreads and price earnings ratios The adequacy and appropriateness of assumptions used in the valuations of unlisted investments, including liquidity management throughout the embedded derivatives groups operations.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 134 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued Audit committees structure The table below depicts the Investec group audit committees structure and ambit of activities.
AUDIT COMMITTEES OF INVESTEC PLC AND INVESTEC BANK PLC AND INVESTEC LIMITED AND INVESTEC BANK LIMITED Current risk review Corporate governance External auditors Audit sub-committees Planning budget Distil only major issues to Chief executive officer South African Banks Act Managing director requirements Conflict audit audit committees independence High level reports Financial director Disaster recovery and business continuity confirmations Audit compliance Internal auditors Non-attest services Key staff issues implementations forum Annual audit plan andfees Finance ACIF Adequacy of staffing Reports to regulators Reviews higher rated complement Accounting policies Management letter Succession planning Annual financial statements findings from all assurance Quality of earnings audit providers Internal audit charter Half-year results differences schedule Status of audit work plan Year-end results Monitors mitigation of Appointment above risks Report of findings and Production of audited reappointment monitoring of outstanding annual financial statements Information technology Compliance issues of companies and Status Special ad hoc work subsidiaries Planning Major risks, including Resources Review of high level reports Accounting for one-off cybercrime Internal controls transactions High level reporting of Change control possible compliance Sustainability report Accounting updates and Capacity management conventions IFRS breaches Security and fraud Operational risk Monitoring of special Basel awareness Fundamental internal Reconciliations projects Staffing controls Regulatory matters Regulatory reports Projects Fraud and loss statistics Representation letters Tax Governance Insurance coverage High level only Disaster recovery Tax sub-committee Prudential audit and conduct committee Distil only major issues to the Investec plc audit committee Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 135 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Corporate governance continued to those covered in current independence risk consciousness, meritocracy, material SUPPORT STRUCTURES requirements, but with a wider scope and employee ownership and an unselfish Audit sub-committees for Investec plc and fewer exceptions.
contribution to colleagues, clients and Investec Limited regulated subsidiaries, society.
Further information regarding our have been established.
Reports on the risk The committees will continue to monitor remuneration philosophy and processes and control environment of all business these developments and consider the and directors remuneration is provided in units and principal operating subsidiaries impact of these regimes on Investecs Investecs 2016 integrated annual report.
are made to one of the audit subexternal audit arrangements as the UK committees, with significant issues being implementation rules become clearer.
PRA AND FCA REMUNERATION escalated to the audit committees.
CODE DISCLOSURES These allow senior managers of the In terms of the PRAs Chapter on Disclosure business units, who do not attend the main Requirements BIPRU 11.5.
18 the bank Investec plc and Investec Limited audit David Friedland in the UK is required to make certain committee meetings, to meet with the risk quantitative and qualitative remuneration Chairman, audit committees and control functions and to provide input disclosures on an annual basis with respect on the risk and control environment of their 15 June 2016 to Material Risk Takers.
Members of the Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committees are Material Risk Takers are defined as those REMUNERATION entitled to attend these meetings and, as employees including directors whose a general rule, at least one non-executive professional activities could have a material The board believes that a properly director attends these meetings.
impact on the banks risk profile.
constituted and effective remuneration committee is key to maintaining the link The forums are key to enhancing risk and These disclosures can be found in between pay and performance.
Our control consciousness and the associated Investecs 2016 integrated annual remuneration philosophy, which remains control environment of the group.
unchanged from prior years, is to employ The forums support and provide important the highest calibre individuals who are insight to the audit committees.
Essentially, characterised by integrity, intellect and the forums act as a filter, enabling the audit innovation and who adhere and subscribe committees to concentrate their efforts on to our culture, values and philosophies.
We strive to inspire entrepreneurship by providing a working environment that AUDIT TENDERING stimulates extraordinary performance so that executive directors and employees may In June 2014, European Union EU audit be positive contributors to our clients, their legislation came into force.
Among other communities and the group.
provisions, it imposes mandatory audit firm rotation for public interest entities PIE.
The type of people the organisation The legislation will take effect in June 2016. attracts, and the culture and environment Special transition arrangements apply to the within which they work, remain crucial provisions on mandatory firm rotation.
in determining our success and longterm progress.
Our reward programmes The new legislation will require a PIE either are clear and transparent, designed to rotate its auditor or put the audit out to and administered to align directors and tender after a maximum 10-year period employees interests with those of all with a further 10 years allowed if a tender stakeholders and ensure the groups results in the current auditor retaining the short-, mediumand long-term success.
Transitional arrangements in place In summary, we recognise that financial mean that Investec falls into the category of institutions have to divide the return from having current tenure of its current auditors their enterprises between the suppliers in place for 11 to 20 years and therefore a of capital and labour and the societies in tender process would be required to enable which they do business, the latter through change in audit firms for the March 2025 taxation and corporate social responsibility year end.
Auditors of PIEs will be subject to a maximum cap on non-audit fees.
The cap Our group-wide remuneration philosophy seeks to maintain an appropriate equals 70% of audit fees based on a threebalance between the interests of these year rolling average.
In addition there is a new list of prohibited activities for PIE audits stakeholders, and is closely aligned to our which are broadly similar types of activities core values and philosophies which include Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 136
