Report of the Audit & Risk Committee 2016 represented the first full year as an Audit and Risk Committee, with a greater emphasis being placed on the Groups evolving risk management framework for at least two of its four meetings Jonathan Brooks Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee ARC or Committee membership the Committee responsibilities The Committee comprises four independent nonexecutive directors, with myself as Chair.
As the Chair The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial of the Committee, I am deemed by the Board to statements of the Group, and reviews all proposed have recent and relevant financial experience, being annual and half-yearly results announcements a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management to be made by the Group with consideration Accountants and having held senior financial being given to any significant financial reporting positions in my career.
The Committee also advises the Board on whether it believes the The Committee met four times during the year, with annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is all meetings attended by four independent Nonfair, balanced and understandable and provides the executive Directors.
The members of the Committee information necessary for shareholders to assess for the entire year were Professor Lynn Gladden, the Companys performance, business model and Dr Elaine Sullivan and Doug Liversidge with myself strategy.
The Committee also considers internal as Chair.
controls, compliance with legal requirements, The Groups Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Group accounting standards and the Listing, Disclosure Financial Controller, and the external auditor were and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct also invited to attend all of the meetings and did so.
Authority, and also reviews any proposed change At the end of each of the meetings, the Committee in accounting policies and any recommendations met with the auditor without any members of the from the Groups Auditor regarding improvements executive management team being present.
I also met to internal controls and the adequacy of resources the external auditor away from the Groups offices.
within the Groups finance function.
Finally, the Committee takes responsibility on behalf of the Board Activities during the year for the review of risk management and controls within the Group, as well as conducting an annual robust The main activities of the Committee during 2016 assessment of these.
can be seen by referring to the summary agenda items in the table overleaf.
During 2016 this was A full copy of the Committees Terms of Reference clearly divided between matters of financial oversight is available from the Companys website at and those concerned with the management of risk, www.
reflecting the new name for the Committee.
The main theme of 2016 was the development of a much greater emphasis on risk management, process and controls as well as the establishment of a Risk Council to ensure a greater assurance over the robustness of process and effectiveness of internal control, with a role to formalise and embed established practices consistently across the Group.
88 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Committee Reports sector heads and business building team members, Valuation of assets and liabilities receiving regular written reports on the Groups This remains the key audit risk for the Group and at portfolio companies, and reviewing a summary each reporting event, the Audit & Risk Committee prepared by KPMG of external investor participation discusses with management and the auditor the in portfolio company financing rounds to validate the approach that has been taken in assessing all key independence of the pricing of such rounds.
At year end the fair value of the Groups intangible The most material area of judgement in the financial assets was 5.1m and goodwill was 57.1m.
The statements relates to the valuation of the unquoted majority of these balances arose from the acquisition equity investments, which at year end had a of Fusion IP plc in 2014.
The goodwill balance is carrying value of 614.0m.
The Committee satisfied tested annually for impairment.
The intangible itself that the portfolio valuations were materially assets are reviewed for impairment indicators and correct after considering findings from the year end impairment tests are performed if any indicators are valuations meeting, which was attended by KPMG, noted.
receiving periodic presentational updates from the Summary agendas for the Audit & Risk Committee meetings in 2016 Primarily audit-focused business Primarily risk-focused business February 2016 Full year financial statements and Principal risks, risk appetite and discussions with auditor controls Fair, balanced and understandable Review and division of annual agenda review of Annual Report of Committee Audit committee effectiveness review Long term viability statement Going concern and long-term viability review for 2016 financial statements Consideration of the need for a formal internal audit function May 2016 Planning of internal audit projects Review of risk register Half year results planning Review of investment committee controls Auditor effectiveness review MLRO Compliance officer reports on regulated businesses External review of FCA-authorised business controls Review of Group Treasury Policy Cyber security Anti-bribery policy review July 2016 Half year financial statements and Review of D&O and PI insurances review with auditor Review of Market Abuse Regime Non-audit services policy processes and controls December 2016 Review of auditors 2016 audit planning Proposals to establish an executive Risk document Council Audit committees terms of reference: Review of risk register including annual review identification of strategic and principal risks Annual review of Committee rolling agenda Risk & control assessment Whistleblowing policy: annual review of process Related party transaction policy review Cyber security update 89 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Report of the Audit and Risk Committee CONTINUED each of a series of forecast scenarios was assessed.
Regulatory Compliance In the scenario with significant downside, where no Ensuring compliance for FCA regulated businesses further funding was available to the Group for the also represents an important control risk from the next three years, together with a halving in value perspective of the ARC.
Ongoing internal reviews of the entire portfolio, assuming a corresponding are conducted through the use of a compliance reduction in overheads, the business remained viable monitoring programme and an annual external for three years, but would be extremely challenged evaluation is also conducted by a specialist firm.
In the light of this, both the Committee During the review in 2016, no specific issues were and the wider Board came to the conclusion that identified.
the viability period should not be greater than three years.
Review of Annual Report and Accounts and Half-yearly Report Risk and internal controls The Committee carried out a thorough review of The key elements of the Groups internal control the Groups 2016 Annual Report and Accounts framework and procedures are set out on pages 38 and its 2016 Half-yearly Report resulting in the and 39.
The principal risks the Group faces are set recommendation of both for approval by the Board.
During the year, the Audit In carrying out its review, the Committee gave Committee devoted part of each meeting to items particular consideration to whether the Annual concerning risk and its management and as in prior Report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and years the Board devoted part of its annual strategy understandable, concluding that it was.
It did this off-site meeting had a lengthy assessment of risk primarily through consideration of the reporting and its risk appetite towards its strategic priorities of the Groups business model and strategy, the at the annual strategy off-site meeting in October.
competitive landscape in which it operates, the During that meeting, a heat map of risks assessed significant risks it faces, the progress made against in 2016 was compared to a similar exercise for 2015 its strategic objectives and the progress made by, to see what had changed.
Increased competition, an and changes in fair value of, its portfolio companies equity market downturn, insufficient returns from during the year.
investments, excessive portfolio concentration and difficulty scaling the university partnership model Going Concern were all identified as increasing in risk since 2015 and mitigation plans to cope with each of these as well as and Long Term Viability with all of the other identified risks were discussed in Annually, the Committee considers the going the December Audit and Risk Committee.
Managing concern principle on which the financial statements the university partnership model was seen as are prepared and also considers and approves becoming potentially more difficult as it expands and the impairment review of goodwill prepared by the university partnership model was reviewed at the management.
As a business which seeks to establish December meeting.
The Committee also discussed and invest in new ventures as well as support existing the impact of the potential departure of the UK from investments with further capital, the business model the European Union following the Referendum on is currently inherently cash-consuming.
While Brexit was not considered closing cash balance in 2016 of 112.3m the Group to have much direct impact on the business per se, has sufficient cash reserves to continue to provide it was recognised that its impact on the university capital to its existing portfolio and to create and fund sector could ultimately adversely affect the number new businesses at a similar rate to previous years for of new investments available for the Group.
approximately two years assuming broadly similar levels of net operating expenditure and portfolio realisations.
The Committee, as in previous years, decided that the long term viability of the Group remained principally related to five factors.
These included changes in the competitive landscape, the ability to raise further capital, internationalisation of the business, scaling of the business and different outcomes following an Oxford Nanopore exit event.
The impact of these on 90 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Committee Reports One important change in the management of risk was up a working group to ensure compliance with the the decision in 2016 to establish a Risk Council, whose General Data Protection Regulation which is expected permanent members would be the Chief Financial to come into force in May 2018, with PwC undertaking Officer, Company Secretary and Group Financial a third party benchmarking exercise to assist in this Controller, with other executives and management process.
from across the business attending periodically Internal audit during the year as necessary.
The purpose of the Risk Council is to further formalise managements The Group does not maintain a separate internal processes for identifying group-wide risks, the audit function.
This is principally due to the size controls in place to mitigate such risks and to assess of the Group where close control over operations the design and effectiveness of such internal controls, is exercised by a small number of executives.
The with one of its primary roles being to disseminate and Audit Committee currently considers the outsourced embed established practices consistently across the provision of internal audit work as both more efficient Group.
The Risk Council will meet at least four times and cost-effective than having its own central internal a year and reports to the Executive Committee and audit team.
However, the Audit Committee does the ARC.
review the need to have its own separate internal audit function each year.
Whistleblowing Policy The Audit Committee has developed a framework to There is a formal whistleblowing policy which has gain assurance over the system of internal financial been communicated to employees.
This policy and operational controls.
This comprises: provides information on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels it is appropriate to A risk assessment performed by operational make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is satisfied management and the Board to identify key areas that the policy provides an adequate basis for for assurance.
employees to make representations in confidence An annual assessment by the Audit Committee to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate of the whole system of internal financial and investigations.
During 2016 and early 2017, the principal internal Cyber Security audit project undertaken was a review of the Groups The Group continued to invest more time and effort business in the US.
The Committee engaged a third in improving its cyber security in 2016 and recognises party professional services firm, PwC, to examine the increasing importance of this subject with the the risk profile of the US business, ensure that it was Groups expansion into the USA in recent years, as compliant with all local laws and regulations and well as numerous well-publicised cyber-security had appropriate financial controls and operational breaches suffered by other businesses.
Their full report was not completed before is now a standard agenda item for the Committee the end of 2016 but the Committee was given a final and is discussed at least twice a year.
During 2016, report in early 2017 that PwC considered the systems there were a number of new initiatives: these included and processes to be at a higher level than they might the tightening up administration rights on software, have expected and that overall the business was completing the Windows 10 upgrade across the being operated within Group policies.
whole Group, improving mobile device management security, introducing further cyber-monitoring software and improving the Groups back-up IT strategy with associated user training.
An external review of the Groups cybersecurity practices and procedures was carried out by Nettitude Limited who concluded that the technical and procedural aspects of security in IP Group is generally good, with many examples of good practice although highlighted areas where further improvements may be made and the Group has or is currently addressing these areas.
In addition, the Group worked towards certification under the UK Governments cyber essentials self-certification scheme and also set 91 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Report of the Audit and Risk Committee CONTINUED External audit Auditor Independence The effectiveness of the external audit process is A formal statement of independence is received from dependent on appropriate risk identification.
In the auditor each year and the Board and the Audit December, the Committee discussed the Auditors Committee are satisfied that the independence of the audit plan for 2016.
This included a summary of auditor has been maintained.
the proposed audit scope and a summary of what Auditor Effectiveness the Auditor considered to be the most significant financial reporting risks facing the Group together The Committee will complete its formal assessment with the Auditors proposed audit approach to of the effectiveness of the Groups external auditor these significant risk areas.
The main areas of audit following the completion of the 2016 audit cycle and focus for the year were the valuation of investments will report on this assessment in the 2017 annual in portfolio companies, with particular focus on report.
With respect to the 2015 audit, the Committee unquoted companies, including Oxford Nanopore formally considered this at its May 2016 meeting and, Technologies Limited, and the valuation of goodwill.
as in the previous year, decided that the substantive and detailed approach taken by the auditor, Jon Mills Appointment and Independence of KPMG, was entirely appropriate and effective.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the As in the previous year, the vast majority of the appointment of the external auditor and on its Groups assets were reviewed as part of the audit, remuneration both for audit and non-audit work representing 89% of unquoted and 100% of quoted, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the and there was particular emphasis on the valuation of audit with the external auditor.
The Committee Oxford Nanopore which continued to represent such keeps under review the cost-effectiveness and the an important part of the Groups unquoted portfolio.
independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Specialist corporate finance staff were used for some Controls in place to ensure this include monitoring of the valuation work and overall, the auditors riskthe independence and effectiveness of the audit, based approach drew on both their knowledge of implementing a policy on the engagement of the the business and the wider economic and business external auditor to supply non-audit services, and environment.
a review of the scope of the audit and fee and I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions performance of the external auditor.
Non-Audit Work Jonathan Brooks The Audit Committee approves all fees paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee auditor for non-audit work.
In 2016 the Groups 6 March 2017 Auditor, KPMG LLP carried out a non-audit engagement to perform Agreed Upon Procedures to validate the Groups gross investment track record since inception.
Given the natural overlap between this work and the financial audit of the groups results, the Committee judged KPMG the most effective party to perform this work.
In other matters, the Committee prefers to engage other firms to perform consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the Auditor is not compromised.
An analysis of audit and non-audit fees is provided in note 6 to the financial statements on page 118.
92 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM
