Corporate Governance Statement Further development of the Groups corporate governance framework against a general backdrop of UK and US volatility Mike Humphrey Chairman In light of the growth of the Groups business and Compliance with the UK Corporate operations set against a backdrop of socio-political Governance Code developments affecting world markets in 2016 and The Directors are committed to a high standard of which are expected to further influence the ways in corporate governance and to compliance with the which companies are able to conduct their business best practice of the UK Corporate Governance Code in the future, the Board has placed an added focus the Code.
The version of the Code applicable to on developing a robust corporate governance reporting periods beginning before 17 June 2016 was strategy alongside promoting an enhanced culture the version issued by the Financial Reporting Council of risk identification, reporting and mitigation.
The Directors consider that the latter being most prominent in the establishment Group has been and continues to be in compliance of the Groups new Risk Council which supports with the provisions set out in the Code.
the Executive Committee and Board in their risk management responsibilities.
The Board remains Further explanation as to how the provisions set focused on the execution of the Groups strategy, out in the Code have been applied by the Group working with its partners to develop outstanding is set out in the following statement, the Directors businesses based on unique intellectual property and Remuneration Report, the Audit and Risk Committee in doing so, it continues to recognise the importance Report and the Strategic Report.
of a top-down focus on corporate governance as an integral part of all of Group activities.
The Board The Board is accountable to the Groups shareholders Role and responsibilities of the Board for good governance and this report, together with The Board is responsible to shareholders for the the Reports of the Remuneration, Nomination and overall management of the Group as a whole.
Whilst Audit and Risk Committees of the Board describes seeking to support entrepreneurial behaviour in its the Groups detailed approach to corporate partner institutions through the identification of governance and further information on the key compelling intellectual property with the potential to developments in these areas during the year.
grow into robust and unique business propositions, the Board also seeks to provide entrepreneurial The Board looks forward to being able to discuss leadership within a framework of controls for these matters with shareholders at the Groups assessing and managing risk: defining, challenging forthcoming AGM in May 2017 or indeed at any other and interrogating the Groups strategic aims and point during the year.
Mike Humphrey Chairman 54 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview The Board recognises that in doing so it is necessary The Directors are responsible for promoting to support the maintenance and evolution of a the long-term success of the Group, taking into policy and decision-making framework in which such account the interests of shareholders and other strategic aims are implemented: ensuring that the key stakeholders including employees, suppliers, necessary financial and human resources are in place customers, universities and other partners, the to meet those aims: monitoring performance against community and the environment: for ensuring that key financial and non-financial indicators: succession obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders planning: overseeing the system of risk management: are understood and met: and in maintaining a setting values and standards in governance matters: satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
All Directors monitoring policies and performance on corporate are equally accountable to the Groups shareholders social responsibility and helping to shape and embed for the proper stewardship of its affairs and the the Groups corporate culture and values.
long-term success of the Group.
The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account The Directors recognise that the long term nature their respective roles as Executive Directors and of the business of the Group in evolving great ideas Non-executive Directors.
The Executive Directors into world changing businesses presents novel and are directly responsible for running the business unique challenges from both an operational and operations, and developing and implementing strategic standpoint.
In supporting the evolution of strategy, and the Non-executive Directors are novel technologies into outstanding intellectual based responsible for constructively challenging and companies the Board acknowledges the key roles contributing to proposals on strategy, scrutinising of Group functions in the fields of executive search, the performance of management, determining levels capital raising, company secretarial and legal support of remuneration and for succession planning for the alongside the delivery of in-house mentoring and Executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors development of portfolio company management must also satisfy themselves on the integrity of teams.
The Directors believe that the Groups financial information and that financial controls approach to supporting the portfolio companies it and systems of risk management are robust and develops in this way is unique and serves not only comprehensive.
Further details in relation to the to build sustainable businesses with longevity, but Groups approach to the management of its business also to provide attractive returns for stakeholders by risks, and the establishment, function and ongoing creating value over the longer term.
roles and responsibilities of the newly created Risk Council are set out on pages 38 to 45 and on pages The robustness of the Groups portfolio, supported 88 to 92. in this way, has been borne out over the course of the year in review.
The impact of Brexit and other political transitions has been a volatile backdrop to what has proven to be a year of great commercial success for the Groups portfolio, as evidenced by key commercial and corporate milestones being achieved across the portfolio in all Group sectors.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED Strategy Committees and Oversight The Board reviews the strategy of the Group and In addition to the Executive Committee, the Board any issues arising from it on a regular basis and delegates specific responsibilities to certain additional exercises control over the performance of the Group committees that assist the Board in carrying out its by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring functions and to ensure independent oversight of performance against those targets.
Any decisions internal control and risk management.
made by the Board on policies and strategy to be The three principal Board Committees Audit adopted by the Group, or changes to current policies and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination play an and strategy, are made following presentations by the essential role in supporting the Board in fulfilling Executive Directors and a detailed process of review, its responsibilities and ensuring that the highest discussion and constructive challenge by the Board standards of corporate governance are maintained as a whole.
Once made, the Executive Directors are throughout the Group.
Each Committee has its own fully empowered to implement those decisions.
terms of reference which set out the specific matters for which delegated authority has been given by the Schedule of Matters Board.
Except for a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for decision and approval by the Board, the The current terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Board has delegated the day-to-day management of Committee, which were updated in December 2015, the Groups operations to the Executive Committee.
are fully compliant with the provisions of the Code The composition of the Groups Executive Committee and reflect best practice.
The terms of reference is more particularly set out below as well as on were reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee the Groups website at www.
The throughout the year and no amendments were schedule of matters reserved for Board decision considered necessary.
and approval are those significant to the Group as a A review of the terms of reference of each of whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational the Remuneration Committee and Nomination implications.
The current schedule was adopted by Committee during 2016 concluded that, whilst the Board in August 2014 and reviewed by the Board compliant with the provisions of the Code, certain in 2015.
It is the intention of the Board that this be amendments were desirable to reflect current best reviewed again in 2017 in order to ensure a regular and market practice and the actual workings of refreshing of Board practices and procedures.
The terms of reference schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes, for the Remuneration Committee and Nomination without limitation, those matters more particularly Committee were updated, recommended for approval set out in the box in the table on page 57 and the and adopted by the Board in February 2016 and May full schedule can be found within the Corporate 2016 respectively.
Governance section of the Groups website at www.
Each Committee will continue to review its own terms of reference at least annually and update these where necessary.
All of the current Committee terms of reference are available on request from the Company BOARD EXECUTIVE Secretary or within the Corporate Governance section CEO COMMITTEE of the Groups website at www.
Chairman CIO Director of Strategy and IP Impact Senior COO Independent Director of New CFO Director Business and Partnerships Company NED Secretary Head of Biotech NED NED 56 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview Matters Reserved Approval of the Annual Report and accounts and half-year Available from for the Board results statement, accounting policies and procedures or the Company any matter having a material impact on future financial Secretary or on performance of the Group.
our corporate website Strategic acquisitions or disposals by the Group.
Major portfolio capital allocation decisions, being those in www.
excess of 5m per investment or 10% of the Groups cash, com whichever is the lower.
Entry by the Group into strategic partnerships and collaborations with universities and other research institutions.
Major disposals from the Groups portfolio.
Approval and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and objectives.
Approval of the annual budget and any material changes to it.
Considering and, where appropriate, approving Directors conflicts of interest where permitted by the Groups Articles of Association.
Approving appointments to the Board and, subject to shareholder approval, determining and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and any changes in relation to the same.
Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Approval, subject to shareholder approval, of the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders governed by the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Changes to the Groups capital structure, the issue of any securities and material borrowing of the Group.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to existing plans.
Material borrowings by the Group.
Board The terms of reference of each Committee establish its Committees responsibilities and are available from the Company Secretary and on the Groups corporate website: www.
Executive Day-to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive Committee, Committee which operates under agreed terms of reference.
These are available from the Company Secretary.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED In 2016, a Disclosure Committee was established Diversity to assist the Group to make timely and accurate The Board is committed to a culture that attracts disclosure of all information that is required to and retains talented people to deliver outstanding be disclosed to meet its legal and regulatory performance and further enhance the success of the obligations and requirements arising from its listing Group.
In that culture, diversity across a range of on the London Stock Exchange.
It also enables to criteria is valued.
The Board recognises that diversity, Group to meet its obligations under the Market in all its aspects, is key for introducing different Abuse Regulations and takes responsibility for the perspectives into board debate and decision making.
assessment and control of inside information.
A genuinely diverse board comprises individuals with a range of personal attributes, perspectives, skills, Board size and composition knowledge, experiences and backgrounds, as well As at 31 December 2016, there were nine Directors as representing differences in nationality, race and on the Board: The Chairman, four Executive Directors gender.
The biographies of all Directors are provided on pages 52 and 53.
During The Boards policy is to make appointments to the the year, there were no changes to the Board nor the Board based upon merit against objective criteria.
In composition of its Committees.
addition, the Board agrees that diversity including gender, ethnic and cultural diversity remains a key In accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit aspect in creating an optimal board in terms of themselves for annual re-election by shareholders at balance and composition.
the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017.
In relation to gender diversity, the Nomination The Board unanimously recommends to shareholders Committee gave further consideration throughout the reappointment of all Directors retiring at the the year as to whether to set a target in relation to meeting and offering themselves for re-election, the number of women on the Board and in particular on the basis that the annual Board evaluation with reference to the Women on Boards Report by demonstrated that they are all effective directors of Lord Davies issued in March 2015 and the Hamptonthe Company and continue to display the appropriate Alexander Review issued in November 2016.
Whilst level of commitment in their respective roles.
New the Group endorses Lord Davies recommendations, directors may be appointed by the Board from it did not consider it appropriate nor in its best time to time but the appointee is always subject to interests to set either Board or Group-wide targets election by shareholders at the first Annual General at this stage and prefers instead to continue to Meeting following their appointment.
In addition, consider all aspects of diversity including, but it remains the Boards policy that all Directors not limited to gender when assessing the overall be subject to re-election at each Annual General Board composition and in making further new Meeting.
Notwithstanding that it does not have a fixed target in relation to the number of women An extract of the Groups Policy relating to the on the Board, the Company does currently have two terms of appointment and the remuneration of both female directors on its Board and will aim to Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors is maintain female representation on the Board at least detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on at this current level.
In addition, the terms of reference pages 72 to 75. of the Nomination Committee include a requirement for the Nomination Committee to consider diversity including but not limited to gender, nationality and race in evaluating the composition of the Board and in identifying suitable candidates for Board appointments.
In relation to ethnic diversity, the Nomination Committee has reviewed the Parker Review Committee Report on the ethnic diversity of boards issued in November 2016 and is aware of the recommendation that each FTSE 250 board should have a director of colour by 2024.
Similar to the approach adopted by the Committee with respect to 58 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview gender diversity, the Committee does not consider Non-executive Directors are required to obtain the it appropriate to set Board or Group-wide targets at formal written approval of the Chairman before this stage with respect to ethnic diversity.
taking on any further directorial appointments and the Chairman requires the approval of the Board The Group will continue to consider all aspects of before adding to his commitments.
In all cases, diversity when making further appointments.
When the Non-executive Directors must ensure that their Board vacancies arise, the Groups Nomination external appointments do not involve excessive time Committee will require the Groups in-house commitments or cause a conflict of interest.
executive search function and or external search consultants as appropriate to identify and present The roles of Chairman and Chief qualified people of a range of diverse backgrounds, Executive Officer colour, gender and nationality to be considered for Mike Humphrey is the Groups Chairman.
The Groups commitment to diversity at of responsibilities between the Chairman and the the senior management level is also very strong and Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out it actively works to increase the number of women, in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman ethnic and other cultural diversities in leadership is responsible for the leadership and conduct of positions within the Group.
A breakdown of employee the Board, the conduct of the Groups affairs and diversity showing the number of persons who were strategy and for ensuring effective communication Directors of the Company and senior managers at the with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the full date of this report can be found on page 47. and effective contribution of Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors at Board and Committee meetings, ensures that they are kept well informed and fosters a constructive The Non-executive Directors provide a wide range of relationship between the Executive Directors and unique skills and experience to the Group.
The Chairman also ensures of such a diverse mix of skills and experience, the that the membership of the Board is appropriate Non-executive Directors are and continue to be well to the needs of the business and that the Board placed to constructively challenge and scrutinise the Committees carry out their duties, including reporting performance of executive management at both Board back to the Board following their meetings, either and Committee meetings.
orally or in writing, at the next Board meeting The Code sets out the circumstances that should be depending on its proximity to the meeting of the relevant to the Board in determining whether each relevant committee.
The Board The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to lead considers Non-executive Director independence the delivery of the strategy and the executive on an annual basis as part of each Non-executive management of the Group and its operating Directors performance evaluation.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible, this review, and with due regard to provision B.
1.1 of amongst other things, for the development and the Code, the Board has concluded this year that all implementation of strategy and processes which of the Non-executive Directors are considered by enable the Group to meet the requirements of the Board to be independent of management and shareholders, for delivering the operating plans and free of any relationship or circumstance which could budgets for the Groups business sectors, monitoring materially influence or interfere with, or affect, or business performance against key performance appear to affect, the exercise of their independent indicators KPIs and reporting on these to the Board, judgement.
and for providing the appropriate environment to Since 2009, the Boards policy has been to prohibit recruit, engage, retain and develop the high quality personal investments by the Non-executive Directors personnel needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
in any of the Groups portfolio companies, whether new or existing.
This policy remains unchanged and accordingly, none of the Non-executive Directors presenting themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 have holdings in any of the Groups portfolio companies.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED Senior Independent Director Board meetings, provision of Doug Liversidge is the current Senior Independent information and decisions Director.
A key responsibility of the Senior The Board meets regularly during the year as well Independent Director is to be available to as on an ad hoc basis, as required in response to the shareholders in the event that they may feel it needs of the Groups business.
inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman The Board had six scheduled Board meetings in or Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Senior 2016 with seven Board meetings scheduled for 2017 Independent Director serves as an intermediary to ensure that the meeting schedule is sufficient to between the rest of the Board and the Chairman, meet the needs of the business.
The requirement where necessary, and takes the lead when the for additional scheduled meetings shall be kept Non-executive Directors assess the Chairmans under review by the Company Secretary.
In response performance and when the appointment of a new to the findings of the externally conducted Board Chairman is considered other than where the Senior Effectiveness Review in 2015 2016 the 2015 2016 Independent Director himself or herself wishes Effectiveness Review and following feedback from to be considered for the role.
Further, the Senior the Non-executive Directors, the Heads of the Groups Independent Director will lead the Board in their four Sector teams Healthcare, Biotech, Technology deliberations on any matters on which the Chairman and Cleantech presented to the Board throughout is conflicted.
the year to allow the Board to review the progress, Board support performance and objectives for the next twelve to eighteen months of each Sector.
The Board also The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board received presentations from the New Business and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, Partnerships Team, IP Capital, IP Exec and the US applicable rules and regulations are complied with team in response to feedback from the Non-executive and that the Board is advised on governance matters Directors for additional exposure to these operational and relevant regulatory matters.
Further, this method of interaction assists access to the impartial advice and services of the the Board in gaining a deeper understanding of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts breadth, stage of development and diversity of the as a key point of contact for the Chairman and has Groups portfolio.
a crucial role in the quality of information that flows between the Executive Directors and the NonThe majority of Board meetings are held at the executive Directors and the Company Secretary Groups offices in London.
The Board also aims to is responsible for ensuring agreed actions are have at least one of its scheduled meetings, or its completed.
The Company Secretary supports the annual strategy day s, at either the Companys Chairman on performance evaluation, the induction offices in Leeds, Oxford, Sheffield, Cardiff or of new directors and the continuing development of Newcastle or at the location of one of the Groups current directors including ensuring directors receive partner universities in order to encourage further suitable training to enable them to comply with their interaction with the Groups stakeholders.
Meetings duties and effectively carry out their roles.
between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, both with and without the presence of There is also an agreed procedure for directors the Chief Executive Officer, are also held as the need to take independent professional advice at the arises.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage where a director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
60 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview In addition to the six scheduled Board meetings, the Not less than five business days prior to each Board held a two-day strategy meeting in October scheduled Board meeting, every member of the 2016 devoted entirely to the consideration and Board receives detailed Board packs, which include development of the Groups strategic objectives.
an agenda based upon the schedule of matters This provided an opportunity for all Directors, and reserved for its approval along with appropriate particularly the Non-executive Directors, to ensure the reports and briefing papers, save in respect of Groups strategy is on course: to discuss medium and meetings called on short notice or where late papers longer term strategic objectives, and the key drivers are permitted to be included with the consent of the underpinning these: to review the Groups KPIs: to Chairman.
If a director is unable to attend a meeting analyse and challenge the Groups objectives: and to due to exceptional circumstances, he or she will review the Groups risk framework and risk appetite, still receive the supporting papers and will usually including considering the major risks facing the Group discuss any matters he or she wishes to raise with the and its strategy and how to assess, manage, mitigate Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The Company and or monitor the same.
The Board undertook its Secretary will at all times facilitate access to Board strategy review in Glasgow, in line with its practice meetings by electronic means videoconference, of holding off-site strategy meetings annually at a telephone conference or other equivalent methods location of one of its partner universities in the UK to ensure maximum attendance at Board meetings or one of its nationwide offices.
At that meeting throughout the year for all Executive and Nonthe Board welcomed presentations from two Group executive Directors.
portfolio companies in the Healthcare and Cleantech The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Sectors which evolved from intellectual property Officer, Company Secretary and Heads of each of created at the University of Glasgow, one of the the four Sectors work together to ensure that the Groups partner universities.
Directors receive relevant information to enable them The schedule of Board and Committee meetings to discharge their duties and that such information is each year is, so far as is possible, determined before accurate, timely and clear.
This information includes the commencement of that year and all Directors monthly management accounts containing an or, if appropriate, all Committee members are analysis of performance against budget and other expected to attend each meeting.
In following the forecasts, as well as monthly reports from each of recommendations of the 2015 2016 Effectiveness the Heads of each of the four Sectors.
Additional Review the Committee and Board meetings are information is provided as appropriate or if requested.
often split over two days to ensure sufficient time is At each meeting, the Board receives information, allocated for the business of the Committees and the reports and presentations from the Chief Executive Board and that full engagement and attendance is Officer, the other Executive Directors and, by possible across all meetings from those in attendance.
invitation, other members of senior management or Further, such scheduling allows for more in-depth the Groups Sector Teams as required.
This ensures engagement between the Non-executive Directors that all Directors are aware of, and are in a position and the Executive Directors and the heads of each to monitor effectively, the overall performance of of the Sectors outside of the formally scheduled the Group, its development and implementation of meetings.
strategy, and its management of risk.
Supplementary meetings of the Board and or the Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is Committees are held as and when necessary in supported by a paper analysing the relevant aspects response to business needs.
In addition, the Board of the proposal including costs, benefits, potential including both Executive and Non-executive risks involved and proposed executive management Directors met for three formal dinners and the action and recommendation.
Chairman and the Non-executive Directors met without the presence of the Executive Directors once during the year.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED Board and committee attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees which they were eligible to attend during the year: Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Mike Humphrey Alan Aubrey 1 Mike Townend Greg Smith 1 David Baynes Jonathan Brooks Doug Liversidge Prof. Lynn Gladden Dr Elaine Sullivan 1.
Including one attendance by telephone.
KEY Attended Did not attend 62 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview more within the Groups top ten holdings by value, Directors conflicts of interest which will include as a minimum meeting with such Each director has a statutory duty under the companies management and a presentation from Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006 to avoid a them on their businesses.
situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may potentially The content of the induction process is regularly reconflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty evaluated by the Board to ensure it remains tailored is in addition to the continuing duty that a director to the needs of the business of the Group and the owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any specific profile of any incoming candidate.
Following transaction or arrangement under consideration by the completion of an induction process for a new the Company in which he or she is interested.
The director, the Company Secretary will seek feedback Companys Articles of Association permit the Board from the relevant incoming director to assist with this to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The Board has established procedures for managing In addition, the Company facilitates sessions as and, where appropriate, authorising any such conflicts appropriate with the Groups advisers, in particular or potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring its sponsor Numis Securities Limited, as well as agenda item at all Board meetings and this gives the with appropriate external governance specialists, directors the opportunity to raise at the beginning of to ensure that any new directors are fully aware of every Board meeting any actual or potential conflict and understand their responsibilities and obligations of interests that they may have on the matters to be as a director of a FTSE 250 company and of the discussed, or to update the Board on any change to a governance framework within which they must previous conflict of interest already declared.
operate, including most recently, presentations on the impact of the Market Abuse Regulations introduced In deciding whether to authorise any conflict, the in July 2016 and directors duties.
directors must have regard to their general duties In order to ensure that directors continue to further under the CA 2006 and their overriding obligation to their understanding of the issues facing the Group, act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, encouraged to continue to visit all of the Groups the directors are able to impose limits or conditions offices, its portfolio companies and its partner when giving authorisation to a conflict or potential universities.
Throughout 2017, it is anticipated that conflict of interest if they think this is appropriate.
The at least one of the Groups Board meetings or its authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms strategy day s will be held off-site to further this of any authorisation, may be reviewed by the Board objective.
As detailed above, the Board is also at any time.
The Board believes that the procedures exposed to the early-stage opportunities in which established to deal with conflicts of interest are the Group has invested through presentations at operating effectively.
Board meetings by relevant members of the Groups Induction, awareness staff and Sector teams.
In 2017 it is intended that further presentations will be provided on a rolling and development basis and incorporated into the Board agenda in A comprehensive induction process is in place order to continue to update the Board on progress, for new directors.
The programme is tailored to to enhance the awareness of the Board as to how the the needs of each individual director and agreed Group operates on a day-to-day basis and explain with him or her so that he or she can gain a better how such functions assist in the execution of the understanding of the Group and its businesses.
Groups core strategy of systematically helping create, This process includes an overview of the Group and build and support outstanding intellectual propertyits businesses, structure, functions and strategic based businesses.
aims: training on key legal matters relevant to the Group and its policies such as matters relevant to Anti-Bribery and Whistleblowing policies and procedures, site visits to the Groups head office in London and to one or more of its nationwide offices in Leeds, Oxford, Sheffield, Cardiff and Newcastle, and site visits to a number of the Groups portfolio companies, including, where possible, at least one or 63 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED As a further aspect of their ongoing development, The anonymity of all respondents was ensured each director also receives feedback on his or her throughout the process in order to encourage an performance following the Boards performance open and frank exchange of views.
The results were evaluation in each year and access to relevant training analysed by Deloitte and a short form summary and development opportunities, including those of the findings was prepared by Deloitte and relevant to the Non-executive Directors membership shared with the Board by the Company Secretary on the Boards Committees, is facilitated through in February 2016.
Overall it was concluded that the Company Secretary.
Details relevant to the the Board continues to work effectively, with assessment of the Boards performance are set out at demonstrable improvements being identified from page 64. the implementation of the findings of the 2015 2016 Effectiveness Review.
Board effectiveness and Director performance performance evaluation assessment and review In line with best practice under the Code a performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees In addition to the 2016 2017 Effectiveness Review, and individual directors is conducted annually to the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior ensure that Board performance continues to be Independent Director, appraised the Chairmans effective, that each of the directors demonstrates performance following which the Senior Independent commitment to his or her respective role and Director provided feedback to the Chairman.
has sufficient time to meet their commitment to Further, the performance of each of the Nonthe Group.
Further, the Code requires FTSE 350 executive Directors on the Board is reviewed by the companies to have an externally facilitated evaluation Chairman with support from the Company Secretary, at least every three years.
the performance of the Chief Executive Officer In line with the provisions of the Code the Group is reviewed by the Chairman and the operational undertook an externally facilitated process of review performance of the other Executive Directors is in 2016 whereby the Group appointed Deloitte LLP reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer as part to externally facilitate the evaluation during January of the annual appraisal process.
In addition to the February 2016.
Following the 2015 2016 Effectiveness aforementioned annual reviews, the performance Review, and whilst not strictly required by the Code, of the Executive Directors is reviewed by the Board the Board felt that it would be in the best interests on an ongoing basis, as deemed necessary, in the of the Group to again appoint Deloitte LLP to assist absence of the Executive Director under review, in the Company Secretary with the facilitation of the order to avoid a conflict of interest.
effectiveness review of the Board on a limited scope Director rotation and independence basis the 2016 2017 Effectiveness Review.
Deloitte LLP has no connection to the Group other than the Following the outcome of the 2015 2016 provision of ad-hoc advice to the Remuneration Effectiveness Review, the Nomination Committee Committee and the undertaking of prior Board and the Company Secretary have agreed a evaluation activities.
In light of the same the Board standardised rotation schedule relevant to each was satisfied that Deloitte LLP was sufficiently of its Non-executive Directors reflecting that each independent to be able to facilitate the 2015 2016 Non-executive Directors appointment including Effectiveness Review and assist with the more limited that of the Chairman shall be for a three year term scope of the 2016 2017 Effectiveness Review.
pursuant to the terms of each relevant letter of appointment, subject to renewal for subsequent three This limited scope of engagement with Deloitte LLP year term s, and the term permitted for each Nonfor the 2016 2017 Effectiveness Review comprised: executive Director excluding the Chairman shall be a The distribution of an on-line internal survey for maximum of three rolling three year terms in order to the purposes of assessing Board and Committee maintain his or her independence from a governance effectiveness: and perspective in accordance with the Code.
The completion of an analysis of the online survey data and collation of those results, reporting to the Company Secretary on the top-line findings.
64 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview Once a Non-executive Directors appointment or The Committee is chaired by Mike Humphrey.
Its re-appointment has been confirmed for a further other members, as at 31 December 2016, were three years approved by the Board following a Jonathan Brooks, Professor Lynn Gladden, Douglas recommendation by the Nomination Committee Liversidge and Dr Elaine Sullivan, ensuring a in line with the above, the Company Secretary will majority of independent Non-executive Directors issue a formal letter to the relevant Non-executive as prescribed by the Code.
To ensure compliance Director confirming this arrangement in the form with the provisions of the Code, the independence of a side letter to the existing letter of appointment of the Committee and to avoid any potential which shall remain in full force and effect unless other conflicts of interest, the Committee has agreed amendments are required.
that Mike Humphrey will not chair any meetings of the Committee dealing with the appointment of a The Nomination Committee shall apply the same successor to the chairmanship of the Group.
approach regarding rotation to the Chairmans term of appointment.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required, or as requested by the Board, and met three Committees of the Board times during 2016.
The attendance by each member of the Committee at the meetings during 2016 is set The composition of the three Committees of out on page 62. the Board and the attendance of the members throughout the year is set out in the table on page 62.
In line with and in consideration of the recommendations provided by Deloitte LLP in the Remuneration and Audit 2015 16 Effectiveness Review, and following the and Risk Committees approach adopted by the Group in identifying and Separate reports on the role, composition, appointing Lynn Gladden and Elaine Sullivan to the responsibilities and operation of the Remuneration Board in March 2014 and July 2015 respectively, it was Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee agreed that Stuart Thompson, Director of IP Exec, are set out on pages 69 to 87 and pages 88 to 92 the Groups in-house executive search function, be respectively.
appointed to run the search and recruitment process for a new Non-executive Director as a replacement Nomination Committee for Mr Liversidge on behalf of the Nomination Committee so as to capitalise on the in-depth skill, The Nomination Committee leads the process knowledge and experience of IP Exec in recruiting for Board appointments and the re-election and Non-executive Directors with relevant expertise.
succession of directors and the Chairman.
Its key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises Ahead of commencing the search and in order to individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and enable the job specification to be framed accurately, experience to ensure that the Board is effective in an updated gaps analysis on the Boards composition discharging its duties.
was initiated in which the following matters were considered: the current balance, skills, knowledge, It is responsible for making recommendations to the diversity and experience of the Board as it presently Board concerning the composition and skills of the stands with regards both Executive Directors and Board including any changes considered necessary Non-executive Directors, in order to identify what in the identification and nomination of new directors, will be the main skills, experience and attributes the reappointment of existing directors and the required of the new Non-executive Director taking appointment of members to the Boards Committees.
the additional role of Senior Independent Director It also assesses the roles of the existing directors in presently occupied by Mr Liversidge.
Furthermore, office to ensure there continues to be a balanced Mr Thompson conducted one-on-one interviews Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and with each of the Directors both Executive and Nondiversity.
The Nomination Committee reviews the executive in order to determine their views on the senior leadership needs of the Group which will composition of the Board in light of the appointment enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Director appointments although the Board as a whole is responsible for succession generally.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED On completion of this scoping exercise, Mr Thompson The Committee recognises that there is a need for a reported his findings to the Nomination Committee robust succession planning framework to be in place at the Board meeting in July 2016 in relation to to mitigate the risk of any unforeseen circumstances his consideration of and findings relevant to the and ensure that changes in Board or senior executive composition of the Board as a whole.
The findings of positions are effectively managed and do not cause this exercise were reviewed by the Committee and significant disruption to the Group.
In particular, approved, thereafter the preparation of a detailed the following specific steps were taken in 2016 in job specification was undertaken and the recruitment respect of succession planning for all Directors, search commenced.
members of the Executive Committee who are not Board Directors and other key senior management The recruitment search is ongoing at the time of this positions: report.
A longlist of candidates has been carefully considered by the Committee in conjunction with A formalised succession plan was prepared by Mr Thompson and a shortlist of candidates has the Groups HR Director in consultation with the been prepared, with one-on-one interviews being Chairman, the Groups Chief Executive Officer, and conducted with the Chairman and other Directors Company Secretary.
both Executive and Non-executive in January and In consideration of the requirements of the Code February 2017 with a view to a formal appointment for the Board to satisfy themselves that plans being made in March or April 2017 to allow for a are in place for orderly succession at Board and transition period between the incoming candidate senior management level, this formalised plan was and Mr Liversidge as the Boards outgoing Senior circulated to the Nomination Committee and the Independent Director.
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer, with the latter Executives receiving a partly In connection with any future appointments to the redacted version of the planning document in Board, the Committee will continue to adopt a formal, order to avoid a possible conflict of interest with rigorous and transparent procedure, including giving regards their own succession arrangements.
full consideration to the balance, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity including gender The Committee carefully considered the succession on the Board in advance of any new search for a plan in detail at its meeting in May 2016, confirming director to ensure a suitable balance is maintained at that time that no further changes were required see paragraph headed Diversity on page 58 for to be made to the plan but that regular reviews of further explanation of the considerations made by the same would be required and that this process be the Committee in this regard.
Consideration will also led by the Groups HR Director in consultation with always be given to whether identified candidates the Chairman and others as necessary subject to the have enough time available to devote to the role.
Succession Planning The Committee together with the HR Director retains responsibility for the maintenance and During 2016, the Groups HR Director has worked where appropriate, updating of the succession plan with the Nomination Committee to further formalise in consultation with the Executive Directors to the and advance the Groups approach to succession extent the Committee deems this to be appropriate.
planning, recognising that succession planning is a Where the succession plan addresses matters key factor of sound corporate governance practice relevant to the succession of an Executive Director, and in ensuring the ongoing, long term success of the Executive Director in question shall not be the business of the Group.
In parallel to succession consulted, so as to avoid issues arising relevant to planning at the Board and senior executive level, conflicts of interests.
developing internal talent at all levels within the Group is a continuous process.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing that suitable leadership and talent development plans and processes are in place to maximise the potential of the Groups employees and that the Group has effective recruitment policies to continue to attract and retain talented employees.
66 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Governance Overview In addition, the Committee together with the Groups Identification and evaluation of HR Director is responsible for developing and principal risks and uncertainties monitoring the Groups own internal talent pipeline.
The operations of the Group and the implementation Whilst it is the opinion of the Committee that sound of its objectives and strategy are subject to a number systems and procedures are already in place to of key risks and uncertainties.
The Board actively ensure the development of the Groups employees identifies and evaluates the risks inherent in the at all levels of the organisation, the Committee along business, formally reviews these on at least an annual with the Executive Directors will continue to oversee basis or as market or business developments require further enhancement of the same during 2017 with and ensures that appropriate controls and procedures support from the HR Director.
are in place to monitor and, where possible, mitigate Internal control these risks.
Specifically, all decisions relating to strategic partnerships and other collaborations The Board fully recognises the importance of the and acquisitions entered into by the Group are Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk reserved for the Boards review and approval.
The Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Board formally reviews the performance of the and Business Reporting.
The Groups internal controls, Groups university partnerships and other strategic which are Group-wide and were in place during the collaborations and relationships.
In order to ensure whole of 2016, were reviewed by the Board and were the effective facilitation of this review the Board considered to be effective throughout the year ended receives a formal presentation and update from 31 December 2016. the Groups Managing Director, New Business The Board is responsible for establishing and and Partnerships Team annually alongside regular monitoring internal control systems and for reviewing reporting within the regular Board papers on a rolling the effectiveness of these systems.
views the effective operation of a rigorous system of The Board also reviews equity investments on a internal control as critical to the success of the Group.
quarterly basis, although performance of specific However, it recognises that such systems can provide investments may be reviewed more frequently if only reasonable and not absolute assurance against deemed appropriate dependent on their relative size material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of as regards the aggregate portfolio as a whole.
the Groups internal control system, all of which have been in place during the financial year and are up The Board maintains an up-to-date Register of Risks to the date when these financial statements were setting out mitigations in place in each case.
The approved, are as follows: key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, as well as the relevant mitigations, are set out on pages Control environment and procedures 38 to 45.
Were more than one of the risks to occur The Group has a clear organisational structure with together, the overall impact on the Group may be defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
the highest values surrounding quality, integrity and ethics, and these values are documented Information and and communicated clearly throughout the whole financial reporting systems organisation.
The Group evaluates and manages significant Detailed written policies and procedures have been risks associated with the process for preparing established covering key operating and compliance consolidated accounts by having in place systems risk areas.
These are reviewed and updated at least and controls that ensure adequate accounting annually by the Board.
The Board considers that the records are maintained and transactions are recorded controls have been effective for the year ended accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of 31 December 2016. financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Board approves the annual operating budgets and receives details of actual performance measured against the budget each month.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED Relations with stakeholders Political expenditure The Company is committed to a continuous dialogue Although it is the Boards policy not to incur political with shareholders as it believes that it is essential expenditure or otherwise make cash contributions to to ensure amongst its shareholders a greater political parties, and it has no intention of changing understanding of, and confidence in, the short, that policy, the CA 2006 is very broadly drafted in medium and longer term strategy of the Group and this area and the Board has raised a concern that it in the Boards ability to oversee its implementation.
It may include activities such as funding conferences is the responsibility of the Board as a whole to ensure or supporting certain bodies involved in policy that a satisfactory dialogue takes place.
The Boards review and law reform.
Accordingly, at the AGM primary shareholder contact is through the Chairman, held on 12 May 2016 as per previous Annual General Chief Executive Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Meetings, the shareholders passed a resolution on a Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial precautionary basis to authorise the Group to incur Officer.
The Boards primary contact with the limited political expenditure as defined in Section 365 of partners and advisory boards of its managed funds CA 2006 not exceeding 50,000 in total at any time is through the Chief Investment Officer and the Chief from 12 May 2016 up to the conclusion of the 2017 Executive Officer.
The Senior Independent Director AGM.
The Board intends to seek renewed authority and other Directors make themselves available, as for the Group to incur political expenditure of not appropriate, for contact with major shareholders more than 50,000 in total at the Companys 2017 and other stakeholders in order to understand their AGM, to be held on 10 May 2017, which they might issues and concerns.
Where considered appropriate, otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring major institutional shareholders are consulted on under the terms of CA 2006. significant changes to the Board and the structure of Going concern the Executive Directors remuneration.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable The Company uses the Annual General Meeting expectation that the Group will have adequate AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its resources to continue in operational existence for shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be held the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue at 2.00pm on 10 May 2017 at IP Group plc, 9th Floor, to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the The Walbrook Building, 25 Walbrook, London, EC4N financial statements.
8AF is enclosed with this report.
In line with the Code, the Notice of AGM will be sent to shareholders at ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of the resolutions and the explanatory notes thereto are Mike Humphrey Alan Aubrey included with the Notice.
To ensure compliance with Chairman Chief Executive Officer the Code, the Board proposes separate resolutions 6 March 2017 for each issue and proxy forms allow shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM to vote for or against or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
The results of all proxy voting are published on the Groups website after the meeting and declared at the meeting itself to those shareholders who attend.
Shareholders who attend the AGM will have the opportunity to ask questions and all directors are expected to be available to take questions.
com is the primary source of information on the Group.
The website includes an overview of the activities of the Group: details of its portfolio companies, and its key university partnerships and other strategic collaborations: and details of all recent Group and portfolio announcements.
68 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM
