Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report Audit and Risk Committee Report Dear shareholder, During the year the FRCs Audit Quality On the following pages we set out the Audit Review team reviewed our external auditors and Risk Committees report for 2016 which KPMG audit of our 2015 financial provides an overview of the areas considered statements.
We have discussed the report In the Audit and Risk Committee section by the Committee during the year.
with KPMG and the Audit Quality Review The purpose of this report is to highlight team.
The review identified three areas for areas that the Committee has reviewed During the year the Board reviewed and improvement in the audit which KPMG will during the year.
We report to shareholders refreshed its thinking on the Companys make in future years.
Overall we found the on the significant financial reporting issues approach to risk management.
The Board results of the review reassuring with no issues and judgements made in connection with decided that it would be useful for the identified which we considered cast doubt on the preparation of the Companys financial Committee to provide greater input on the the fundamental quality of our audit or which statements.
Also highlighted is how the risk management process.
As a result, the raised issues about our financial reporting.
Committee has assisted the Board in Board has expanded the remit of the reviewing the Companys internal control Committee to include risk and changed its We were delighted that Anna Manz joined and risk environment.
We explain what terms of reference accordingly.
Anna takes the Committee has done to review our membership to four independent the effectiveness of our internal and The Committee received detailed updates Non-executive Directors.
She brings broad external auditors.
from a number of executives who own key financial and commercial experience from business risks which enabled us to understand her executive roles.
The skills and experience how risks which could impact our strategic of the members of the Committee remain objectives are being managed and mitigated strong and we have had a productive and within the business.
In line with our Auditor Independence policy Further information on corporate governance we have changed our external audit partner.
and a schedule setting out how we comply Whilst there is no requirement to do so we with the Code can be found on our website have as a matter of good governance also www.
We seek to respond to had a change in lead partner for our shareholders expectation of audit committee outsourced internal audit function.
reporting and welcome feedback from them.
Looking ahead, with a change in audit John Ormerod partners, we have an opportunity to review Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee our overall assurance and risk management processes.
In addition, as our strategy evolves 1 March 2017 and the business diversifies we will continue to develop our approach to new revenue streams and our international operations.
ITV continues to develop its control environment in response to the increasingly international nature of its business John Ormerod Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 68 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Who is on the Committee The Committee is composed entirely The Committee members have between them a wide range of business and financial experience.
The Committee considers that of Non-executive Directors.
John Ormerod and Anna Manz have recent and relevant financial The current members are: experience for the purposes of the Code.
Anna Manz is Group John Ormerod Chairman Finance Director of Johnson Matthey and brings executive finance Mary Harris skills to the Committee deliberations.
Andy Haste Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found on Anna Manz appointed 1 May 2016 the table onpage 65.
Our role advise the Board on strategic risk exposures remuneration performance objectives: The main role of the Committee is to: and mitigations: and monitor the integrity of published financial information and review review the risk identification and assessment review the quality and effectiveness of significant financial reporting issues processes and undertake deep dives of high the external audit and the procedures andjudgements: risk business areas or processes: and controls designed to ensure auditor independence.
provide advice to the Board on whether review the effectiveness of the internal the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, control and risk management processes: Following each meeting the Committee balanced and understandable and the monitor and review the effectiveness and communicates its main discussion points appropriateness of the going concern independence of the internal auditfunction: and findings to the Board.
statement and the longer term viability provide advice to the Remuneration statement: Committee on financial reporting matters assist the Board to establish and articulate and related judgements and risk overall risk appetite and oversee and management as they affect executive Meetings February May July September November Year-end financial Half-year financial Half-year report Emerging and business Year-end planning reporting issues reporting issues specific risk reviews KPMG review Distributable reserves and judgements and judgements conclusions planning Fair, balanced and External Audit strategy and findings KPMG interim controls understandable reviews Internal Audit review findings Viability Statement independence Review effectiveness verification and evaluation of internal audit and KPMG audit following years plan conclusions and findings Audit opinion In addition to Committee members the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Legal Director, Head of Internal Audit, Director of Treasury, Director of Tax and the external audit partner regularly attend meetings.
The Committee members meet regularly with the external auditor and internal audit without executives present.
Annual review will continue to develop its role.
Priorities for this year An annual review of the performance of the Committee will include appointing a successor to John Ormerod, was conducted for theyear.
In addition to feedback from developing our risk management processes and members of the Committee, input was sought from the streamlining some of our administration procedures to Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial free up time to cover a wider agenda.
Controller, external auditors, Internal Audit and theChairman of the Board.
The Committees terms of reference can be accessed on Overall, the review concluded that the Committee is our website.
responding appropriately to its terms of reference and www.
com investors governance 69 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Our focus in 2016 In planning its own agenda, and reviewing the audit plans of the internal and external auditor, the Committee takes account of significant issues and risks, both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Companys financial statements.
The Committee also addresses specific queries referred to it by the Board or Remuneration Committee.
During 2016 there were no topics where there was significant disagreement between management, our external auditor and the Committee, or unresolved issues that needed to be referred to the Board.
Set out in the tables below is information on the key matters considered during the year.
Regular reviews and recurring transactions The following table summarises the regular reviews and activities undertaken by the Committee.
Some of these areas may require the application ofjudgement by management or have underlying complexity.
Financial results announcements Auditor engagement and fees Financial External Annual Report and Accounts Auditor independence and objectivity disclosure audit Accounting judgements and estimates Auditor Independence policy and including non audit fees Developments in financial reporting judgements Audit plans Fair, balanced and understandable Auditor performance and effectiveness Viability Statement page 57 Key areas of judgement Significant failings and weaknesses Going concern Goodwill impairment note 3.3, page 140 Tax note 2.3, page 126 Deal debt see below Pension accounting note 3.7, page 148 Deficit financing see below Revenue recognition IFRS15 Appropriateness of Alternative Performance Measures page 34 Internal Audit independence and Principal risks and uncertainties Internal Risk effectiveness and risk mitigations control Internal Audit plan 2017 Effectiveness of the risk management process Effectiveness of internal controls Cyber security page 52 Post acquisition reviews Talpa Media B. V. Technology modernisation page 56 Whistleblowing process Health and Safety risk management page 53 Material litigation Insurance programme Fraud controls Further information on our risk Anti-bribery controls management framework can be Treasury policy and reports found on pages 50 to 57.
Tax and Treasury, and Disclosure Committee review 70 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Most of the topics mentioned above are relevant to all businesses.
However, matters specific to ITV include: Deal debt: this is where management reviews the over and under delivery of advertising value to agencies.
The Committee reviews managements approach and method of determining the provisions required for under delivery.
Deficit financing: as part of our strategy to expand our content portfolio, significant investment in high end drama is made.
The Committee reviews the accounting implications, including revenue recognition and recoverability of the amounts invested.
In both cases the Committee agreed with managements approach and their conclusions.
Complex discrete transactions The Group completed certain transactions during the period that were in line with strategy but could have been considered outside the normal course of business.
The Committee carefully reviewed these transactions to ensure that the judgements applied by management were reasonable and any complex accounting guidance followed correctly.
Area of focus Financial reporting and judgement Action taken by Committee Outcome Talpa: contract for The Committee assessed whether The Committee considered Revenue The Voice of China.
the revenue recognition criteria managements report on the recognition had been met.
accounting and agreed with the Talpa signed a four year deal to assessment that revenue was license The Voice of China in The following points were noted: recognised appropriately, in January 2016. accordance with IFRS and ITV The format IP was delivered, and accounting policies.
Whilst ITV has done similar is fully available for exploitation, multi-year deals for Intellectual and KPMG also presented their view Property IP and content, this on the matter to the Committee, No material performance was by far the most material, noting consistent conclusions on obligations are expected of and therefore the accounting the appropriate revenue Talpa in future years.
treatment was examined recognition for this contract.
As a result of the above key points, together with the fulfilment of all other revenue recognition criteria, See also note 2.1, page 120. management considered it most appropriate for the format revenue for all four years the life of the contract to be recognised in full in 2016.
71 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Other matters In addition to financial reporting matters the following topics were reviewed: Area of focus Issue Action taken by Committee Outcome Cyber security is an increasing risk The Committee undertook a Completed and planned mitigations Cyber security as our business develops new review of the cyber security risks were reviewed and assessed.
The revenue streams and direct to and strategy and changes to Committee was content with progress consumer propositions.
reflect the ever changing and will continue to monitor and review cyber threat.
Legacy business systems are being The Committee reviewed the Completed and planned mitigations Technology modernised to reduce a number of programme of work to modernise were reviewed and assessed.
The modernisation key business risks.
Committee was content with progress and will continue to monitor and review this area.
Following an internal audit of site The Committee has kept the In areas which face day-to-day Health and specific health and safety mitigation actions under regular operational risk we are continuing Safety management a number of review and is satisfied with the to develop our three lines of defence mitigating actions were progress to date.
model and to move our approach to recommended and considered.
risk away from a rules and process In addition a general group wide driven system to a cultural people health and safety risk assessment driven solution which encourages was requested and was considered and focuses on prevention rather in January 2017. than reaction to failure.
The Committee will continue to monitor and review this area.
In accordance with Finance Act The Committee has reviewed ITVs Tax Strategy was approved by Tax Strategy 2016 the Company is required to the strategy produced by the board on 26 January 2017 and is publish its Tax Strategy.
management and recommended available to view on our website at it for adoption to the Board.
The Company proposed issuing a The Committee reviewed the The bond was successfully issued in Bond Issue 500 million Eurobond for general bond issue documents and related December 2016 and was hedged in corporate purposes and financing disclosures.
In addition they accordance with agreed policies.
activities such as repayment of the discussed the related treasury 161 million bond issue in January policy decisions such as foreign 2017, and earn out payments due exchange hedging.
Gurney Productions LLC, a subsidiary of the Group: Before the Group initiated legal proceedings against the sellers, who held a 38.5% membership interest in Gurney Productions LLC, the Board considered advice received from US Counsel and the evidence supporting the alleged breaches of contract and their fiduciary duties, as well as self-dealing and fraudulent concealment, and agreed with the conclusions drawn and proposed actions suggested by management.
In 2017 the Committee plans to consider whether any improvements in procedures and controls might have identified and mitigated the issues sooner and how any lessons learned can be applied to other acquired companies.
Further information is in Note 5.3, page 172.
Risk management and Internal Controls Risk management The Committee continued to consider the process for managing risk within thebusiness and assisted the Board inrelation to compliance with the Code and development of the risk appetite framework.
During the year the Committee terms of reference were extended so that the Committee could provide greater input on the Companys approach to risk management.
Further information on our risk management process and details of our Principal risks and uncertainties is includedin the Strategic Report onpages 50 to 56.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility forthe Groups systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the systems of internal control.
The primary responsibility for the operation of these systems is delegated to management.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
72 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As part of our internal control process thestrategy is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group performs a comprehensive annual strategy review and a rolling five-year financial planning exercise.
The five-year plan feeds into theannual budget cycle.
The Executive Directors review formal forecasts, detailed budgets, strategies and action plans and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, along with an update of the Groups performance against strategic KPIs and cash.
Actual results are compared to budget and forecasts, and key trends and variances are explained and analysed.
Assurance The Committee satisfies itself that internal controls are operating throughout the year principally based ona programme of internal audit reviews, reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls including fraud and anti-bribery and through a suite of automated analytics which monitor financial transactions in our systems.
In addition to the internal auditprogramme, there are a number of exception reports that cover transaction processing.
For those subsidiaries not covered by exception reporting software, a monthly self assessment takes place which is subject to independent internal review.
Our Auditors Internal auditor The Groups internal audit activity is outsourced to Deloitte who report directly to the Committee.
The Committee continues to believe that outsourcing offers access to the wide range of skills and resources in the various geographies required and endorses its continuing use.
The Committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with Deloitte and the procedures to ensure appropriate independence of the internal audit function is maintained.
During the year there was a change to the lead partner to bring a fresh perspective and approach and continue to bring robust challenge.
The effectiveness of internal audit is assessed over the year using a number of measures that include but are not limited to : an evaluation of each audit assignment completed using feedback from the part of the business that has been audited: and a high level annual review that is completed by obtaining feedback from senior management in each division.
At the start of the year the Committee considered and approved the internal audit plan, that included audits across the Group as well as assurance over live projects.
During the year the Committee reviewed findings from these internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in the reports and the status of progress against previously agreed actions.
All internal audit reports are available to the Committee.
External auditor The Groups external auditor is KPMG.
The table below summarises the process followed to manage the relationship and audit process.
Independence, objectivity Engagement Audit tendering and rotation Reappointment and fees The Committee considers We undertook a competitive The Committee seeks to ensure During the year the Committee carefully the scope of planned tender in 2012 and applying the objectivity and independence considered the performance work and the assessment of risk the BIS guidance on the EU Audit of our auditor through: and audit fees of our auditor, and materiality on which it is rules the next mandatory and the level of non-audit work focus on the assignment and based.
In particular, through tender would be for the 2023 undertaken, and recommended rotation of key personnel: the Committee Chairman, the financial year.
to the Board that a resolution Committee participates in the adequacy of audit for the reappointment of KPMG The Committee continues to the negotiation of the audit fee resource: and for a further year as the monitor audit quality to ensure to ensure that there is an Companys auditor be proposed policies in relation to non a robust and effective audit.
appropriate balance between to shareholders at the AGM audit work.
the scope of work and the cost of in May 2016.
The resolution During 2016 there was a rotation assurance.
The Committees aim During the year we updated our was passed and KPMG was of audit partner.
Following a is to support a robust and Auditor Independence policy to reappointed.
robust selection process by effective audit and strong comply with EU legislation.
A management and the The Committee has reporting lines to the copy of the policy is available on Committee, our new partner is recommended the Committee.
reappointment of KPMG at The Committee agrees the terms Fees paid to KPMG for 2016 are the AGM on 10 May 2017.
We comply with the provisions of of engagement, audit and non set out in Note 2.1 on page 124. the Statutory Audit Services for audit fees and reviews progress Non-audit fees amounted to Large Companies Market and results throughout the year.
Significant Investigation Mandatory Use advice related to employment of Competitive Tender and Audit tax in the UK.
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
73 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report Audit and Risk Committee Report continued External Audit effectiveness and quality The Committee follows the review programme below to satisfy itself of external audit effectiveness and quality.
February May July November Audit scope and materiality Audit Plan and Strategy Fees and Independence Auditor Independence policy reviewed every two years Independence and objectivity Engagement Audit Quality Review focus areas Audit fees final Confirmation of work performed and other significant risks Re-appointment Audit quality is reviewed throughout the year and in 2016 the Committee used the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Audit Quality Practice Aid help structure its review of audit quality.
When making its assessment of audit quality, the factors the Committee focused on included: External audit quality reports The audit strategy for the year addressed thematic concerns that the FRC had highlighted.
Auditor interaction with Reviewing the auditors understanding of business progress against the strategy and emerging industry management themes, as well as the auditors discussion with management on key corporate transactions.
Auditors own view of Enquired with regards to: effectiveness their audit methodology and its effective application to ITV: their robustness of challenges and findings on areas which require management judgement: whether there had been an internal peer review of the ITV audit and what the findings were: and the experience of the senior members of the audit team.
Further in its assessment of audit quality the Committee took into account: the detailed audit strategy for the year, including the coverage of emerging risks: Group materiality and component materiality: how the auditor communicated any key accounting judgements and conclusions: and feedback from management of the performance of the auditor.
There were no significant findings from the evaluation this year and the Committee considers the external audit to have been robust and effective.
The Committee also considered the FRC Audit Quality Review feedback from their review of our 2015 audit and agreed with KPMG the changes in audit procedures they will make and how we will support their implementation.
