Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors Committee membership G General purpose A Audit and Risk N Nomination R Remuneration Full biographies can be found on our website: www.
com about board-of-directors Sir Peter Bazalgette, Chairman N R Appointed: June 2013 Chairman from May 2016 Key areas of prior experience: Media consultant, digital media investor and former television producer.
Current external appointments: Member of Advisory Board for YouGov plc and Bartle Bogle Hegarty.
Previous experience: President of the Royal Television Society: Chairman of the Arts Council of England: Non-executive Director of Nutopia: Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee of YouGov plc: Non-executive Director of Mirriad Ltd, DCMS, Rightster, Critical Information Group plc and Channel Four Television Corp: Trustee of DebateMate: Chairman of the ENO and Endemol UK: Deputy Chairman and Director of the National Film and Television School: Adviser to Sony Musics television division: Chairman of the UK production business of Sony Pictures Television Inc. : Chief Creative Officer at Endemol Group BV and Endemol Entertainment UK Limited.
Adam Crozier, Chief Executive G Appointed: April 2010 Key areas of prior experience: Business turnaround and change management, advertising.
Current external appointments: Non-executive Director of Whitbread PLC from April 2017.
Previous experience: Non-executive Director of G4S plc, Debenhams plc and Camelot Group plc: Chief Executive of the Royal Mail Group: Chief Executive of the Football Association: Joint Chief Executive of Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising.
Ian Griffiths, Group Finance Director G Appointed: September 2008 Key areas of prior experience: Corporate finance and financial restructuring.
Current external appointments: Non-executive Director of DS Smith Plc.
Previous experience: Group Finance Director and other senior finance roles within Emap plc: Manager in audit and corporate finance at Ernst & Young.
Salman Amin, Non-executive Director N Appointed: January 2017 Key areas of prior experience: General management, marketing, advertising and media planning.
Current external appointments: Chief Operating Officer, Global Commercial Division, S C Johnson and Son Inc.
Previous experience: Chief Operating Officer, North America, SC Johnson and Son Inc: various positions at Pepsico including: Chief Operating Officer, Purchase: President, PepsiCo UK and Ireland: other marketing and various positions within brand management, personal care, paper products and food in the US, Saudi Arabia, Germany and Switzerland at Procter & Gamble.
60 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Roger Faxon, Non-executive Director N Appointed: October 2012 Key areas of prior experience: Broad commercial, digital and media rights experience, development of business strategy and finance.
Current external appointments: Chairman of Mirriad Advertising Ltd: Non-executive Director of Pandora Media Inc: Director of The John Hopkins University.
Previous experience: Director of EMI Group Global Limited and EMI Group plc: Chief Executive Officer of EMI Group Limited: Chairman and CEO of EMI Music Publishing: Director of the Songwriters Hall of Fame: other appointments at theAmerican Society of Composers and Authors and Lancit Media Entertainment Ltd in the US: Chairman of VIVA Television in Germany and Channel V Networks inAsia.
Mary Harris, Non-executive Director N A R Appointed: July 2014 Key areas of prior experience: Business management consulting, sales and marketing, mergers and acquisitions, media, television and interactive media investments and digital rights management.
Current external appointments: Non-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC: Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for J. Sainsbury plc: Member of the supervisory board of Unibail Rodamco SE.
Previous experience: Member of the supervisory board of TNT Express NV, TNT NV, Scotch and Soda NV and Irdeto BV: Partner at McKinsey & Company, Amsterdam: various positions worldwide with McKinsey & Company, Maxwell Entertainment Group, Pepsi Cola Beverages and Goldman Sachs & Co. Andy Haste, Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee N A R Appointed: August 2008 Key areas of prior experience: International and emerging markets, change management, restructuring and business turnaround.
Current external appointments: Chairman of Wonga Group Limited: Senior Independent Deputy Chairman of the Council of Lloyds.
Previous experience: Group Chief Executive of RSA Insurance Group plc: Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life plc: Director of AXA UK plc life and pensions : President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Capital Global Consumer Finance UK, Western Europe and Eastern Europe: President of the US Consumer Credit Business and Senior Vice President and Head of the US Consumer Loan Products Division of National Westminster Bank.
Anna Manz, Non-executive Director N A Appointed: February 2016 Key areas of prior experience: Strategy and finance and financial planning.
Current external appointments: Group Finance Director at Johnson Matthey plc: Governor at Haberdashers Askes School Elstree.
Previous experience: Various appointments at Diageo plc including: Group Strategy Director, Regional Finance Director Asia Pacific, Group Treasurer, Finance Director Global Marketing, Sales and Innovation: other finance roles at Quest International, Unilever and ICI.
John Ormerod, Non-executive Director, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee N A R Appointed: January 2008 Key areas of prior experience: Finance, developing strategy and growth.
Current external appointments: Non-executive Director of Constellium NV: Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Gemalto NV.
Previous experience: Non-executive Chairman of First Names Group Limited, Tribal Group plc, Merlin Claims Service Holdings Limited: Senior Independent Director of Misys plc: Trustee of The Design Museum and The Roundhouse Trust: Non-executive Director and Chairman of Audit Committee of Computacenter plc: Non-executive Director, Negative Equity Protection Holdings Limited, Millen Group Limited and BMS Associated Limited: Member of Audit and Retail Risk Control Committees of HBOS plc: Chairman Wallbrook Group: Chairman of the Audit Committee for Transport for London: Practice Senior Partner at Deloitte & Touche: Regional Managing Partner at Arthur Andersen.
