Governance Management Board Management Board Full biographies can be found on our website: www.
com about board-of-directors Julian Bellamy, Managing Director, ITV Studios Appointment to the Board: February 2016 Previous experience: Julian joined ITV in 2014 as Managing Director of the Studios business in the UK and was promoted to Managing Director of ITV Studios in February 2016.
Julians previous roles included Creative Director and Head of Commissioning at Discovery Networks International, Head of Programming at Channel 4 and prior to that he ran BBC3 and E4.
He also spent time as Channel 4s Head of Factual Entertainment and was a commissioning editor of Channel 4 News and Current Affairs.
Mary Fagan, Group Communications and Corporate Affairs Director Appointment to the Board: January 2011 Previous experience: Mary joined ITV from the Royal Mail Group, where she was Corporate and Government Affairs Director from December 2003.
A senior city and business journalist with more than 20 years experience, Marys previous roles included Deputy City Editor of the Sunday Telegraph, Industrial Correspondent for the Independent and City Reporter at the Evening Standard.
Andrew Garard, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Appointment to the Board: November 2007 Previous experience: Andrew joined ITV as Group Legal Director in 2007 and took on the additional role of Company Secretary in 2009.
He is also on the board of ITN, and responsible for rights management, the ITV archive and Corporate Responsibility.
Previously Andrew was a Partner in the corporate department of LeBoeuf Lambs London office.
Prior to this, Andrew was Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at Cable & Wireless plc where he was a member of the Group Executive responsible for Global Legal.
Prior to that he was Global Head of Legal and Deputy General Counsel of Reuters Group plc in the UK, and before that, General Counsel Asia.
Kevin Lygo, Director of Television Appointment to the Board: August 2010 Previous experience: Kevin joined ITV as Managing Director, ITV Studios in 2010 and became Director of Television in February 2016.
Kevins previous roles included Director of Television and Content at Channel 4, Director of Programmes at Channel 5 and a number of positions at the BBC, including Head of Independent Commissioning for Entertainment.
62 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 David Osborn, Group HR Director Appointment to the Board: October 2014 Previous experience: David joined ITV as the HR Director for ITV Studios in May 2011, and was appointed to the Management Board in October 2014 as Group HR Director, responsible for delivering the Groups People Strategy.
David gained previous experience in both the UK and internationally whilst working in a variety of businesses including EMI Music, Vodafone, Visa Europe and Marks & Spencer.
Simon Pitts, Managing Director, Online, Pay TV, Interactive and Technology Appointment to the Board: January 2011 Previous experience: Simon joined ITV in 2000 and has held a range of roles across corporate strategy, general management, digital media, policy and regulation, and public affairs.
He took on his most recent role in December 2014 with a remit to grow ITVs Online, Pay TV and Interactive businesses alongside continued leadership of the Technology team.
He also has responsibility for SDN, sits on the boards of ITN and YouView and is a Trustee of the Royal Television Society.
Before ITV Simon worked in the European Parliament in Brussels where he specialised in media issues.
Kelly Williams Managing Director, Commercial Appointment to the Board: December 2014 Previous experience: Kelly joined ITV inAugust 2011 as Group Commercial Director and joined the Management Board as Managing Director, Commercial in December 2014.
He is also Chairman of Thinkbox, sits onthe BARB Strategy board and is Vice Chairman ofthe Advertising Association.
Before joining ITV, Kelly was the Sales Director at Channel 5 and prior to that held various positions at UKTV, Sky and Thames Television.
