Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Our Governance structure Board Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee See the Audit and Risk Committee report See the Remuneration Report on page 75.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors on page 68.
Meets to review the structure, size, and composition of the Board, including skills, knowledge and experience.
Identifies and nominates for Board approval candidates to fill Board vacancies, and considers succession planning for Directors and other Senior Executives.
Considers and reviews any conflicts of interest that may be reported by the Directors.
Disclosure Committee General Purpose Committee Tax and Treasury Committee Executive Directors and other Executive Directors Group Finance Director and senior managers other senior managers Meets as required to conduct business within Meets to ensure compliance with the clearly defined limits set by the Board.
Meets to consider and approve tax and continuing obligations under the Disclosure treasury related matters in respect of and Transparency Rules.
corporate transactions or other activities.
Monitors compliance with tax and treasury related policies and procedures.
Matters reserved for the Board and Committee terms of reference are available on our website: www.
com investors governance Management Board Meets to consider and approve strategy and operational plans, monitors operating and financial performance, and assesses and manages risk.
ITV Studios Board ITV Broadcast Board Operational Risk Business Resilience Executive Directors Executive Directors and Steering Group Response Team and Senior Executives Senior Executives of Manages and considers Acts as tactical response of divisional business.
a number of existing and team in the event of an emerging operational risks incident, supporting the Meets to consider and Meets to consider and and ensures that the business Management Board in approve operational matters, approve operational matters, addresses them appropriately dealing with a crisis.
Develops and assesses and manages and assesses and manages including in relation to: business area response plans, risk in relation to the risk in relation to the Health & Safety, Child testing programmes and Studios business.
Protection, Business Resilience, incident reporting.
Data Protection, Insider Dealing, Whistleblowing, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, Information Security, Fraud, Technology and Cyber risk.
Programme Compliance Corporate Responsibility Advisory Group Board Manages and considers issues Manages the direction and and risks in relation to the delivery of ITVs Responsibility programme compliance Strategy including in relation framework, the interactive to: diversity and inclusion, business and regulation.
environment, communities and social causes.
64 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board and Committee meetings The number of meetings held during the year and attendance of Directors is set out in the table below.
The Board agrees an annual schedule of matters it wishes to consider at each of its meetings and those of its committees.
The schedule ensures that all relevant matters are considered and receive appropriate attention.
Meetings are normally held at one of the London sites or one of the regional or international offices.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: Operational and functional updates Financial updates Strategy and progress against Strategic Priorities Risk management framework, key risk areas and risk appetite Other reporting and items for approval Senior Executives and other colleagues are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, meetings take place between: Board members and Management Board members Chairman and Non-executive Directors Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present Our focus during 2016 and some of our plans for 2017 are set out below: 2016 2017 European Union Referendum issues International expansion of ITV Studios Broadcast strategy and changes to commissioning International roll-out of SVOD strategy Development of creative talent pipeline Impact of exiting the European Union Review of the North American market London property strategy Digital platform markets and strategy Viewing trends, including younger viewers International content strategy Online, Pay and SVOD strategy Board and Committee membership and attendance Board and Committee membership and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2016 is set out below.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Date of Tenure at appointment 31 December Contract Status Notes to the Board 2016 Y M renewal date 10 1 6 6 Independent Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman 1 1 June 2013 3 7 1 June 2019 10 1 6 Adam Crozier Executive 2 26 April 2010 6 8 n a 10 Roger Faxon Independent 31 October 2012 4 2 31 October 2017 10 1 Ian Griffiths Executive 2 9 September 2008 8 4 n a 10 Mary Harris Independent 3 28 July 2014 2 5 28 July 2017 10 1 4 6 Independent Andy Haste SID 11 August 2008 8 5 11 August 2017 10 1 6 6 Anna Manz Independent 5 1 February 2016 0 11 1 February 2019 9 1 5 Independent Archie Norman Chairman 4 5 January 2010 n a n a 3 1 2 1 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 8 11 18 January 2017 10 1 6 6 1.
Sir Peter Bazalgette was appointed as Chairman with effect from 12 May 2016.
Executive Directors have rolling service contracts that provide for 12 months notice on either side.
Mary Harris was appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 12 May 2016 and two of the scheduled meetings were held prior to her appointment.
Archie Norman stepped down as Chairman and from the Board on 12 May 2016.
Anna Manz was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 February 2016 and one of the scheduled Board meetings was held prior to her appointment.
She was also appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 1 May 2016 and one of the scheduled meetings was held prior to her appointment.
During 2016 there was full attendance of Directors and Committee members at Board and Committee meetings.
65 Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Terms of engagement for the Non-executive Executive Directors, other relevant senior feel they have a great connection with the Directors are available on our website.
business and are used effectively outside of Board meetings.
com investors governance Output is reported to the relevant Chairman and a report of actions is submitted to the The Board is perceived to handle regulation During the year the appointments of John Committees and actioned as appropriate.
and governance in an effective and efficient Ormerod, Andy Haste and Roger Faxon were manner as well as creating time for the extended for a further 12 months.
External discussion of broader strategic and During 2016 the Board continued its cultural matters.
During the year the Board used executive ongoing effectiveness review facilitated search firm Zygos to assist with the search by the external firm YSC.
The review was Board tenure process for a Non-executive Director with aimed at evaluating progress and identifying The current board tenure is shown in the experience in the advertising industry and how the Board can best add value as our diagram below.
with an understanding of the future dynamics strategy develops.
The evaluation comprised in the advertising sales and broader digital the following: 02 years 25 years 59 years arenas.
Following a rigorous search process Individual interviews Salman Amin was appointed as a Nonexecutive Director with effect from Observation of Board sessions 9 January 2017.
Discussions with Senior Executives Interview with the Company Secretary Board effectiveness Succession planning and diversity Access to key Board papers Experience and independence Succession planning Biographical details for the Directors are set In interviews the Board members were The Board has agreed a succession planning out on pages 60 and 61 with more detailed asked to give their views on the challenges framework which it regularly reviews to biographies available on our website.
facing ITV and what this means for the Board.
ensure that: They were also asked to comment on the www.
com about board-of-directors Board tenure is appropriate and strengths and weaknesses of the Board in encourages fresh thinking and newideas relation to these needs.
Board members The Board is of the view that the Nonwho had participated in the earlier review The Board is sufficiently diverse but most executive Directors are independent in both were also asked to reflect upon any changes importantly has the appropriate mix of character and judgement.
generalist and specialist skills challenge and helpdevelop proposals on Non-executive Directors have the strategy, scrutinise the performance of A report detailing analysis and appropriate level of independence, from management in meeting agreed goals recommendations was compiled which the executive and each other and objectives, and monitor the reporting was discussed with the Board as a whole of performance.
and feedback was provided to individual This year both John Ormerod and Andy Haste Board members together with additional will have served more than six years on the The Board works well together, development sessions.
The Board continues to believe that bringingstrong, independent, balanced they bring a wealth of knowledge and judgement, knowledge and experience to its It was noted that despite ITVs recent experience to their deliberations and provide deliberations.
Each Non-executive Director success there was a need to ensure that the a valuable contribution within their roles.
At has appropriate skills and experience so that factors underpinning this success continued the AGM in May 2017 John Ormerod will reach their views carry significant weight in the to work productively.
The Board needs to be the ninth anniversary of his appointment.
sensitive to creating conditions for keeping The Board has deliberated carefully and has and attracting talented senior executives to decided to ask him to continue as Chairman There are job descriptions in place foreach ensure stability and continuity.
In view of the of the Audit and Risk Committee for an of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, and the dynamic nature of the external environment additional year to enable us to ensure an Senior Independent Director which have been and the impact of technological change on appropriate successor is in place and has agreed by theBoard.
These are available on the industry the Board needs to maintain sufficient time as a member of the ourwebsite.
perspective on opportunities and challenges Committee before he steps down.
whilst developing a clear view of its risk www.
com investors governance appetite and the extent to which success in Diversity the next phase will require the exploration It is our policy to retain a strong but relatively Evaluation of new paths and a greater appetite for risk.
small board bringing a balance of in-depth Internal commercial and creative experience.
The work of the Board Committees is Overall the Board was perceived to be The Company has an Equal Opportunities reviewed annually with the support of Group extremely strong and composed of seasoned policy which is followed throughout the Secretariat.
The evaluation takes the form of and experienced individuals who operate in a organisation further information is set out interviews with Board and Committee professional and disciplined manner.
It continues to be the Boards members eliciting feedback on a wide range culture of the Board was felt to be open and intention to increase the diverse make-up of topics.
Inaddition input is sought from the positive but also challenging.
Board members 66 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 and representation of its members as During 2016 the Directors visited a number We regularly seek feedback on the perception opportunities arise, but given the size of of different sites.
Sir Peter Bazalgette and of the Company amongst shareholders and the Board specific formulaic targets are Roger Faxon visited the ITV Studios office the investor community more broadly via not appropriate.
in the US, and Sir Peter Bazalgette visited a our corporate brokers.
Investor comments number of news rooms across the UK and are fed back to the Board and its committees Induction, training and development the ITV Studios office in Paris.
regularly and the Investor Relations team The Company has a policy and programme provides the Board with monthly updates for induction and continuing professional As part of the YSC board effectiveness which include details on stock market development of Directors.
On appointment, process individual development is considered movements, shareholder register, analyst each Director takes part in a comprehensive and plans put in place.
Executive Directors forecasts and selected news on the induction programme.
mayaccept external appointments asNonmedia sector.
executive Directors of other companies and During their period in office, the Directors retain any related fees paid to them.
Details Private shareholders represent more than are continually updated on the Groups of positions held and fees received by 93% of our shareholders holding 3% of our businesses and the competitive and Executive Directors in 2016 can be found shares.
We encourage shareholders to regulatory environments in which they on page 87. register their email addresses to receive operate.
This is done through: information from us in a timely manner.
Relations with shareholders Updates and papers which cover changes The Board attaches a high priority to effective The AGM will be held on Wednesday, affecting the Group and themarket in communication with shareholders and has 10 May 2017 further details can be found which it operates meetings with senior regular and open dialogue with investors.
The on page 189. executives acrossthe Group and Board believes that continued engagement key advisors with shareholders is beneficial to both ITV At the AGM shareholders are invited to meet Regular updates on changes to the legal and its stakeholders as it helps to build a the Directors prior to and after the formal and governance requirements ofthe greater understanding of investors views, proceedings.
At themeeting the Chairman Group and in relation to their own opinions and concerns.
Adam Crozier, Ian and Chief Executive will review the Groups position as Directors Griffiths and the Director of Investor current trading which is followed by a question Relations meet with many institutional and answer session.
Separate resolutions are Presentations given at Board and investors throughout the year to keep them proposed on each substantially separate issue Committee meetings on business updated on the Companys performance and all resolutions are taken on a poll.
Voting matters and technical update against our strategy.
These range from can be done online or using a form of proxy.
sessionsfrom external advisors one-to-one meetings to group presentations The level of votes lodged on each resolution is whereappropriate including the Full Year and Interim results made available on a Regulatory Information Key stages of the induction programme are: and the AGM.
Specifically, following the Full Service and on the Companys website assoon Year and Interim results one-to-one meetings as possible after the meeting.
In 2016 the are held with our largest institutional meeting was attended by 125 shareholders.
The Board is kept up to date with Details of voting at the 2016 meeting Provision of documents regular feedback as part of the wider isavailable on our website.
Duties of a Director, Board procedures, reporting programme.
com investors shareholderBoard and strategy papers and corporate information agm governance.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also respond to shareholder queries and hold meetings where appropriate.
Stage 2 The Company maintains a programme Meetings with Chief Executive and of engagement with the investment Group Finance Director community, including results presentations, Business overview, strategy, current briefings to brokers andother sales forces trading and key commercial issues and attendance ata number of investor conferences.
Presentations given to the investment community are available to Stage 3 download from our website.
Visits to UK and international locations www.
com investors and meetings with colleagues at all levels of the business as appropriate.
