Governance Report Audit Committee The Companys principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 36 to 38.
We have reviewed these during the year and consider that the business has David Keens, addressed them appropriately within its ongoing operating model and through specific actions.
Chairman, Audit The Committee continues to pay particular attention to data governance, Committee with an emphasis on information security.
We have requested and received detailed presentations and have thereby encouraged the Companys strong approach to risk management and controls, given that any data breach could have a detrimental impact on the Companys reputation.
We have monitored the transition programme and governance of Sainsburys Bank, which is included on the agenda of, and is represented at, each Committee meeting.
New provisions of the Governance Code have been introduced.
There is now a requirement to make a statement in the Annual Report concerning the Companys long-term viability over a specified period of time.
In response to this, the Committee has developed its risk management monitoring processes to accommodate the longer-term nature of this statement.
Further Dear Shareholder, details are on page 39.
The significant issues considered by the Committee during the year are set The Committees work during the year has out on page 63. included reviewing the risk framework in light of changes to the Governance Code, Finally, I would like to thank my predecessor as Audit Chair, Gary Hughes, andall Audit Committee members for their work and support during this continuing to monitor both the transition pastyear of transition.
My aim for the coming year is to increase my own of Sainsburys Bank and the management Company knowledge whilst ensuring that this Committee continues to provide diligent enquiry across all aspects of our business.
of data security throughout the business.
This is my first report as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I joined the Board in April 2015 and became Chairman of the Committee in July.
My priority in this first year has been to invest time in visiting Company sites, meeting with colleagues and understanding the risk management processes and internal controls.
I have also met with the Companys professional advisers as appropriate to my duties.
My site visits have been operational, financial and David Keens risk-based, encompassing a range of stores, distribution facilities and Chairman, Audit Committee administration centres.
At the 2015 AGM Ernst & Young were appointed as the Groups auditor for theyear to March 2016.
The transition from PwC to Ernst & Young has been conducted professionally and effectively.
We thank them both for their diligence and support during what has been a very busy period.
The Committee has promoted the Companys culture of identification and management of significant risks across the business, with continuous oversight by the Operating Board.
We are satisfied that the business has maintained robust risk management and internal controls, supported by strong overall governance processes, and that the Board continues to instil a strong risk management culture across the business.
61 Governance Report Audit Committee continued Committee membership April Reviewed the Annual Report and Financial Statements, including the recommendation to the Board that the The Audit Committee is chaired by David Keens, with Matt Brittin, Brian going concern basis be adopted and that the Annual Cassin appointed 1 April 2016 and Susan Rice as its other members, all of Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Susan Rice will step down as understandable.
a member of the Committee on 4 May 2016.
The Board has determined that David Keens has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, Mike Reviewed the year-end report of the external auditor.
Coupe, John Rogers, Susannah Parden Director of Internal Audit, Ed Barker Reviewed the preliminary statement and recommended Director of Group Finance, Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary and its adoption by the Board.
Corporate Service Director, representatives from Sainsburys Bank and the Recommended the appointment of Ernst & Young as external auditor are invited to attend Committee meetings.
auditor and confirmed their independence.
Committee activities Approved the non-audit fees.
The Committees role primarily covers five areas being, internal controls, risk An update on compliance with the Grocery Supply Code management, internal audit, external audit and financial reporting.
of Practice and approval of the annual compliance report to the OFT.
The Committees activities during the financial year were as follows: A risk management update including a review of principal risks and uncertainties.
At each meeting the Committee received a report on the internal controls Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Charter.
framework and the Internal Audit activities.
TheCommittee also received updates on the key agenda items discussed at Fair, balanced and understandable assessment the meeting of the Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee and on all important operating and regulatory matters, including the transition of the Bank One of the key compliance requirements of the Code is for the Board to following its acquisition, its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk confirm that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, management processes.
The Committee received accounting and tax updates is fair, balanced and understandable see page 82.
To enable the Board to covering all relevant accounting issues and regulatory decisions.
In addition, make this declaration, a formal process is embedded in the year-end review the Committee regularly reviewed the Companys funding and liquidity process to ensure the Committee, and the Board as a whole, has access to all position and considered its impact on the Companys financial and relevant information and, in particular, managements papers on significant operational capabilities.
Updates on litigation were also provided.
issues faced by the business.
The Committee receives a paper from management detailing the approach taken in the preparation of the Annual Other activities at each meeting were as follows: Report and Financial Statements, highlighting areas where it has met the requirements of the Code.
The Committee, and all other Board members, also receive drafts of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in sufficient Standard items time to facilitate their review and enable them to challenge the disclosures September Approved the external audit plan and fee proposal.
In addition, the Groups external auditor reviews the Reviewed and approved the H2 internal audit plan.
consistency between the narrative reporting of the Annual Report and the Received an update on risk management.
Received an update on data governance and information security.
Financial statements and significant issues An accounting and tax paper is prepared by management and presented to Reviewed the process being undertaken to support the the Audit Committee four times a year, which provides detail on the main long-term viability statement.
financial reporting judgements and issues.
Specific accounting papers have Received an update on the integration of Sainsburys also been prepared when considered necessary.
Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and Significant financial and reporting issues considered in the year, in no proposed some amendments to the Board.
particular order, were as follows: November Reviewed the Interim Results, including the recommendation to the Board that the going concern basis be adopted.
Reviewed the findings of the internal report of the external auditor.
Received a progress report on the viability statement.
Reviewed developments in the PCI compliance landscape and the Companys compliance programme.
March An update on the long-term viability statement including stress testing against risk materialisation.
Reviewed and approved the H1 internal audit plan.
Reviewed the FRC AQR letter.
Received an update on risk management.
Received an update on information security within Sainsburys Bank.
Reviewed a report of the external auditor.
62 Governance Report Significant financial and reporting issues and how the issue has been addressed Impairment The impairment of financial and non-financial assets is always a significant area of focus for the Audit Committee, especially in todays of financial challenging marketplace.
As disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, a review for impairment triggers is performed at each reporting and nondate by considering if any current or future events suggest the recoverable value of certain assets may be less than their carrying value.
The financial Committee reviewed managements assessment of recoverable value and relevant judgements made.
No impairment triggers were identified assets in the year.
Complex The Committee has reviewed a number of complex property transactions executed during the year to ensure that all accounting and tax property issues are identified and appropriately presented in the accounts, including whether amounts recognised reflect the overall substance of these transactions transactions.
Please refer to note 3 to the financial statements for property profits recognised in the year.
Pensions The Committee reviewed a summary of the key assumptions used in arriving at a valuation for the defined benefit pension scheme for both accounting half-year and year-end reporting.
The Committee reviewed the key assumptions driving the movement in the retirement benefit funded obligations including inflation, discount and mortality rates.
Benchmarking is assessed to ensure that the assumptions are appropriate.
Items The Committee is satisfied that the Groups definition of items excluded from underlying results remains clear and further disclosure is excluded included where appropriate.
The definition has been updated this year to show the coupons on the perpetual capital securities and perpetual from convertible bonds within underlying profit in order to be transparent to readers of the accounts around the costs of these securities.
underlying results Sainsburys The Committee received updates on the key agenda items discussed at the Banks Audit Committee including accounting judgements and estimates Bank and on all important operating and regulatory matters such as its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes.
reporting Representatives from the Banks Audit Committee, Risk Committee and Internal Audit team attend all meetings of the Committee.
During the year the accounting judgements and estimates reviewed by the Committee have included impairment assessments of the loans andadvances due to Sainsburys Bank customers, progress on the bank transition, tax judgements and provisions.
Supplier As in previous years, the Committee reviewed the amounts and movements in supplier arrangements in the year.
The Committee remain arrangements comfortable with the controls in place to manage any estimation or judgement.
The Committee also considered the disclosures in respect of supplier arrangements, and as a result of this have decided to disclose quantified balance sheet and income statement amounts for any areas of supplier arrangements that involve a level of judgement or estimation, but not those which are calculated through a mechanical process.
The Committee believes this represents best practice disclosure.
Viability Changes to the Corporate Governance Code the Code have introduced a Directors longer-term viability statement into annual reports.
statement Thisis the first year that we have adopted this new requirement so significant time was spent assessing the appropriate timeframe over which to make the statement.
The processes underpinning the assessment of the Groups longer-term prospects were also reviewed in detail.
As a result, an assessment period of three years has been chosen for which the Directors have confirmed the Groups viability see page 39.
Audit During the year, the Audit Quality Review team of the Financial Reporting Council FRC team reviewed PwCs March 2015 year-end audit of Quality the Group.
The FRC has given us a copy of their confidential report which has been reviewed and discussed by the Committee and separately Review with both PwC and our current external auditor EY.
The Committee is satisfied that the matters raised do not give it concerns over the quality, objectivity or independence of the audit.
We note that within the External Audit report there is a risk associated with adjustments made to revenue.
We have considered this and have concluded that we have appropriate procedures and controls in place not to include this as a significant area of judgement.
Audit and professional fees paid to the auditor External Auditor The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by Ernst & Young during Independence of External Auditor 2015 16 was audit related assurance services such as the interim review and In order to ensure their independence, the Committee has overseen the the provision of accounting advice, which totalled 0.1 million.
The audit fee Companys policy which restricts the engagement of Ernst & Young in relation for the year in respect of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries totalled to non-audit services.
We are satisfied that Ernst & Young are fully 0.7 million.
For a breakdown on the fees please refer to note 5 of the Notes independent from the Companys management and free from any conflicts tothe financial statements.
The Committee remains satisfied with Ernst & of interest.
Youngs independence and their overall challenge to management.
The policy is consistent with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Effectiveness of External Auditor No.
The policy is designed to ensure that the provision Ernst & Young were appointed in July 2015 replacing PwC as the Companys of such services does not have an impact on the external auditors auditor following a competitive tender which completed in January 2015. independence and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that Aneffectiveness review was undertaken as part of the tender process.
the external auditors shall not undertake, including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of accounting estimates for the Appointment of External Auditor financial statements.
It also requires that individual engagements above a The Committee reviewed Ernst & Youngs overall work plan, and approved certain fee level may only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the their remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Committee has made a Committee Chairman or the Committee.
The policy also recognises that there recommendation to the Board to reappoint Ernst & Young as the Companys are some types of work, such as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed auditor for the 2016 17 financial year.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the understanding of the Companys business is advantageous.
The policy is reappointment will be tabled at the 2016 AGM.
designed to ensure that the auditor is only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to be the most suitable supplier of the service.
CMA Order 2014 Statement of compliance The Committee receives a report at each meeting on the non-audit services The Committee confirms that during the year the Company has complied being provided and the cumulative total of non-audit fees.
In the event that with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit fee then all subsequent Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and non-audit expenditure must be approved by the Committee Chairman.
Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
63 Governance Report Audit Committee continued Risk management Risk management and internal controls Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of management system is designed to identify key risks and to provide internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain of these assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
The responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee as outlined effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a year by the Audit Committee.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Board carries out an annual review of the significant risks facing the failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide business, which includes reviewing risk appetite.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement orloss.
The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk register which is The risk management process and the system of internal controls have been reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and formally discussed with in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the Annual Report the Board.
The risk register contains the significant risks faced by the and Financial Statements, and accord with the UK Financial Reporting business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after Financial and Business Reporting and the Governance Code.
This gives the Board the opportunity to review the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept.
The register The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal also contains the assurance provided over current key mitigating controls.
controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on any identified Where further actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a level deemed weaknesses has been or is being taken.
acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for delivery and progress on implementation of these actions is monitored.
Risk Management Process Divisions Operating Board Audit Committee plc Board Internal Audit January Operating Board 1 2 Risk Review February Divisional Risk review challenge 3 Workshops divisional risk output assess key risks and update corporate to their business risk register as objectives appropriate March Audit Committee review corporate Internal Audit and divisional risks risk-based and sign-off half-year plan Principal Risks and Uncertainties May Management plc Board annual certification that review of risk risks in their areas of process, corporate responsibility are risks and sign-off identified, evaluated of Principal Risks and managed and Uncertainties June 4 Horizon Scanning and Game-Changer Risk Workshops focus on external and unknown risks July 1 2 Operating Divisional Risk Board Annual Workshops Risk Workshop 4 assess key risks assessment of key to their business corporate risks and risk objectives appetite discussion August Operating Board 2 Risk Review review challenge divisional risk output and update corporate risk register as appropriate September Audit Committee Internal Audit review corporate risk-based and divisional half-year plan risks Output Output Output Output 1 2 3 4 Divisional risk Corporate risk Principal Risk and Uncertainties The risk management process feeds into the maps and registers map and register reflecting key corporate risks Company strategy, plan and objectives 64 Governance Report regular reviews by the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the Summary work of the external auditors and of any significant issues arising: The Corporate Risk Management process as referenced on page 64 regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels continues to be effectively embedded and robust discussion on risk, of delegated authority: and mitigations and risk appetite occurs at both the Operating Board and regular reviews by the Board and the Audit Committee of material Divisional leadership team levels.
The risk management process is fraudulent activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues or supported by the principle that the Board is focused on those risks suppliers and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses.
capable of undermining the strategy or long-term viability of the Company and damaging its reputation, and business as usual risks Additional matters are assessed and managed by the divisional leadership teams.
Internal Audit The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments Risk management process resources, budget, work programme, results and managements The risk management process is embedded at the Operating Board level and implementation of its recommendations.
through the review of the risk registers of each of the operating divisions of the business: The Director of Internal Audit, Susannah Parden, reports to the Committee the divisional operating management teams are responsible for managing Chairman and has direct access to all members of the Committee and the the risks to their business objectives and for identification and Chairman.
She is given the opportunity after each meeting to meet with the implementation of internal controls so as to provide reasonable, but not Committee separately without management being present.
She has regular absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are meetings with all Committee members.
The purpose, authority and appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter which the Committee reviews annually.
this divisional risk process is achieved through twice yearly workshops held by the divisional management and facilitated by Internal Audit.
Each Whistleblowing divisional management team produces and maintains a divisional key The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that arrangements are in risk register.
The likelihood and impact of each key risk is evaluated, place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about possible managements risk appetite is discussed and any further actions deemed improprieties on a confidential basis.
All issues raised have been investigated necessary to mitigate the risk are identified.
In addition, the risks and the and appropriate actions taken.
Any significant issues are highlighted to the robustness of the mitigating controls are regularly reviewed by divisional Audit Committee.
management as part of their normal business activities: management certify annually that they are responsible for managing Sainsburys Bank their business objectives and that the internal controls are such that they Sainsburys Bank is a subsidiary of the Company which has an independent provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the risks in their areas board responsible for setting the Banks strategy, risk appetite and annual of responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: business plan as well as the day-to-day management of the business.
the Operating Board reviews and challenges the output of the divisional TheBoard of the Bank has an independent Chairman and a majority of risk process and then updates the overall corporate risk register as independent Non-Executive Directors.
appropriate: The Bank will continue to provide to each Audit Committee an update game-changer and horizon scanning risk workshops are held annually to onperformance and the chairs of the Banks Audit Committee and Risk focus on external and unknown risks.
Key themes and outputs from these Committee will present to the Audit Committee.
There is alignment are reviewed by the Operating Board and the potential impact on key risks betweenthe Sainsburys Internal Audit function and their colleagues is discussed: withinSainsburys Bank equivalent team.
the corporate and divisional risk registers form the basis of the risk based plan of Internal Audit for the subsequent half-year period: Grocery Supply Code of Practice Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management and the In February 2010, a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP was Audit Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk implemented following the recommendation of the Competition management process: and Commission.
Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint a Code the Board reviews the risk process and corporate risks at the year end and Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes between suppliers approves the Companys principal risks and uncertainties as set out on and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys appointed the Director of Internal Audit pages 36 to 38. as its Code Compliance Officer.
Internal controls GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies delivers an The system of internal control encompasses all controls, including those annual compliance report to the Groceries Code Adjudicator which has been relating to financial reporting processes including the preparation of the approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Furthermore, a summary consolidated Group accounts, operational and compliance controls and of the compliance report must be included in our Annual Report and Financial thoserelating to risk management processes.
It also includes the controls Statements.
over Sainsburys interests in joint ventures.
Summary Annual Compliance Report The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in providing systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made.
comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under GSCOP The processes used during the year to support this assessment are as follows: which is reinforced by online knowledge testing.
Sainsburys has also discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, plans dedicated internal resource to provide all relevant colleagues with day-to-day and objectives, and the risks to achieving them: advice and guidance.
The Trading Division, in consultation with the Legal Services Team and the Code Compliance Officer, continues to assess the review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including adequacy of policies and procedures in place to support GSCOP awareness those for both revenue and capital expenditure: and compliance.
regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and mitigating controls and actions: A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP have been received in the regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope reporting period, which were dealt with within the Trading Division using our and results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and of the standard internal escalation procedure.
The resolution of four of these alleged implementation of their recommendations: breaches was facilitated by the Code Compliance Officer.
