Governance Report Corporate Governance The culture and values of the Company, together with our commitment to strong governance, are embedded throughout the organisation.
This continues to underpin our success.
In March, we carried out a comprehensive David Tyler, internal review of the Boards performance which built upon the conclusions Chairman and action plan from the prior years review.
This years review is described in detail on pages 54 and 55.
Succession remains a key focus of the Board and we continue to identify and reviewed the resourcing needs across the business.
Particular focus is given to ensuring that the skills mix of Board and senior management positions are optimised to deliver shareholder value, through our commitment to developing our own people and attracting external talent.
I would like to thank John McAdam for his very valuable contribution over the last ten years and particularly for his counsel as Senior Independent Director.
As previously advised, John will step down at the forthcoming AGM.
I am delighted to welcome Brian Cassin, the CEO of Experian, who joined the Board in April 2016.
His experience in big data and analytics, and of running a FTSE 40 company, will be invaluable over the coming years.
I am also pleased that Susan Rice will be appointed as our Senior Independent Director at the AGM.
Dear Shareholder, The commitment to diversity on the Board and across senior management continues to be an area of focus.
In particular, our recruitment policy takes The Boards particular focus this year has into account each candidates merits and considers a number of diversity been the successful implementation across factors including experience, gender and ethnicity.
Gender diversity on the the business of the strategy announced in Board continues to be in line with the Davies Report target and, more importantly, is appropriate for both Sainsburys and our customer base.
We are pleased with the Further information on diversity can be found on page 57. progress made to date and remain Our strong governance, culture and values, in conjunction with our confident that successful execution of established strategy and our committed and challenging Board, provide thestrategy will drive shareholder value.
thefoundations which are the basis of Sainsburys long-term success.
Inaddition, the Board has been very engaged with the proposed acquisition ofthe Home Retail Group plc, owner of theArgos retail chain, which we believe willaccelerate our strategy for David Tyler shareholders benefit.
Chairman The Board is committed to strong governance and, during the year, the Company has complied with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Governance Code.
This report explains how themain principles of the Governance Code were applied throughout the financial year.
I would like to highlight some of the other activities that we have focused on during the year.
David Keens took over as Audit Committee Chairman with effect from our AGM in July 2015.
Brian Cassin, Chief Executive of Experian plc, was appointed to the Board in April 2016.
We have successfully undertaken the transition of our auditors to Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young from  LLP PwC.
We are now required by the Governance Code to include an assessment of the viability of the Company.
This is covered in further detail in the Audit Committee report on page 63.
The Remuneration Committee firmly believes in the link between pay and performance.
Mary Harris letter to shareholders and our Remuneration Report are set out on pages 66 to 79.
Published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Governance Code is publicly available at www.
52 Governance Report Investor relations Leadership The Board received an independent survey from Makinson Cowell, on the The role of the Board views of major shareholders and analysts, together with updates at each The Boards key areas of focus in helping to create long-term sustainable Board meeting on the Investor Relations programme and feedback from value for shareholders are on strategic leadership, performance management, major shareholders, particularly following each announcement of the risk management, governance, succession planning and investor relations.
Companys results see page 55 for further details.
The Board has a scheduled forward programme of meetings to ensure that we Board operation and attendance can allocate sufficient time to each of these key areas.
This enables us to plan The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year, including a Board and Committee meetings appropriately and use the Boards time two-day Strategy Conference.
Additional ad hoc meetings and conference together most effectively.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme for calls were also convened to deal with specific matters particularly in relation specific items to be added to any particular agenda and this ensures that the to key reviews and decisions concerning the proposed acquisition of Home Board can focus on the key matters relating to the business at the appropriate Retail Group plc.
We ensure that all Directors are aware of the key discussions and decisions of The Boards scheduled forward programme includes the following items, each of the four principal Committees, partly by the Chairman of each some of which are considered at each meeting, and others are reviewed Committee providing a detailed summary to all Directors at the Board periodically throughout the year: meeting following the relevant Committee meeting.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings are circulated to Directors shortly after those meetings Annual budget Dividend policy and Project updates take place.
The Board has a schedule of formally reserved powers, which it recommendations reviews each year, and receives a number of in-depth presentations during Corporate five year Treasury and tax the year.
A copy of the reserved powers is available on the Companys Committee reports plan policy website.
Investor Relations CEO Report and Governance trading update Strategic items Risk management There were a number of informal meetings during the year when Directors Financial items Safety reports Health Board evaluation met individual members of the Operating Board to receive updates on their & Safety and Food Preliminary and specific areas of responsibility.
In addition, the Chairman and Non-Executive Public Affairs Interim results Directors met without the Executive Directors being present, and the Customer insights Litigation Non-Executive Directors also met without the Executive Directors or the Annual Report HR policy Chairman being present.
Cyber security Pensions The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
Key activities The principal activities of the Board during the financial year were: Audit CR&S Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Strategic leadership Matt Brittin 7 8 3 4 2 2 Given the fundamental change in the sector, the Board has particularly Mike Coupe 8 8 2 2 focused on strategic matters in the last year.
The principal focus has been the Mary Harris 8 8 1 2 2 2 4 4 proposed acquisition of Home Retail Group plc.
The Board has also closely Gary Hughes 3 3 1 1 monitored the execution of the strategic plan approved in November 2014, David Keens 8 8 4 4 2 2 the Bank transition programme and other key strategic projects, as well as John McAdam 8 8 2 2 4 4 the competitive landscape and the rapid growth of multi-channel retail.
Susan Rice 8 8 4 4 2 2 2 3 Atwo-day Strategy Conference, with the attendance of the Board and John Rogers 6 8 Operating Board Directors, was held in the autumn.
This enabled the Board to Jean Tomlin 7 8 2 2 2 2 4 4 conduct an in-depth review of each of these topics, and the latest customer David Tyler 8 8 2 2 insights.
The Board evaluated key opportunities and threats, and the five year Note: The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is corporate plan, including cost savings, capital expenditure and balance sheet shown in brackets.
Our brokers UBS and Morgan Stanley, strategic advisers OC&C and our investor relations advisers Makinson Cowell, attended for part of the On the rare occasions that a Director is unavoidably unable to attend a meeting in order to provide an external view of the sector.
meeting, the Chairman briefs them before the meeting so that their comments and input can be taken into account at the meeting, and provides Performance management an update to them after the meeting.
John Rogers attended the Advanced Performance against delivery of the agreed key targets was reviewed at every Management Programme in Harvard which coincided with the September meeting, with particular reference to the detailed Group management and October Board meetings.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer provided an update on the market and current trading at each meeting and presented Division of responsibilities comparative data and customer insight.
Chairman Risk management There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief The Board reviewed the Companys principal risks, and received regular Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The updates on risk management and internal controls from the Chairman of the Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness Audit Committee after each Committee meeting see page 64 for further in all aspects of its role and for setting its agenda.
effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates the contribution of the NonThe Board received an annual update on all matters relating to safety, Executive Directors through a culture of openness and debate, and ensures supported by quarterly updates, together with updates on other relevant constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Specific issues on these and other matters which could have affected the Companys reputation were reported to the Board as they occurred.
53 Governance Report Corporate Governance continued Senior Independent Director The induction programme includes a full review of corporate responsibility The role of the Senior Independent Director is to act as a sounding board for and the Companys values and culture.
This programme is ongoing for the Chairman and as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
In Non-Executive Directors who often meet members of the management team on addition, the Senior Independent Director meets with the other Nonan individual basis to continue to build their knowledge of the Company, or Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman at least once a year in visit stores, depots and suppliers.
Subsequent training is available on an order to undertake a review of the Chairmans performance.
He is also ongoing basis to meet any particular needs.
Detailon David Keens induction available to shareholders as required.
can be found in his statement as chairman of the Audit Committee on page 61.
Chief Executive During the year, the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, Directors duties and Company and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
He creates a obligations, and new legislation and its impact on the Company.
The Audit framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the Committee regularly considers new accounting developments through successful delivery of results, and allocates decision making and presentations from management and the external auditor.
This year this responsibilities accordingly.
He manages the risk profile in line with the risk included changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable to the appetite and categories of risk identified and accepted by the Board.
He takes Group for the 2015 16 financial year, including the requirement for a viability a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external statement and changes to risk management disclosures and current and agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
future accounting standard changes, such as the new consolidation standards, revenue recognition and lease accounting.
Board effectiveness The Board programme includes regular presentations from management and Composition and diversity informal meetings which increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, the Chairman and of the business and the sector.
During the year, the Board held a meeting and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Following the 2016 AGM the Board will revert toured the distribution centre at Daventry which was opened in 2015.
The to having six Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors bring wide Board met and received presentations from the Retail and Operations Director, and varied commercial experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
the Director of Logistics and senior members of the Retail Leadership team.
They are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by The Board visited Sainsburys Bank in September, met with management and shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment and re-election at each colleagues and reviewed the Banks operations.
Directors have also visited AGM thereafter, after which their appointment may be extended for further stores and other sites on an informal basis as part of their continuing terms, subject to mutual agreement.
All members of the Board, other than engagement with the business.
John McAdam, will retire and seek election or re-election by shareholders at this years AGM.
Information and support The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 57.
The Chairman, in collaboration with the Company Secretary and management, is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly Independence and conflicts briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
Directors also have access to independent The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Governance Code on professional advice as well as to the advice of the Company Secretary in his appointment to the Board and all the Non-Executive Directors are fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Each of the Directors has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a Board evaluation situation where he she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that 2014 15 Review conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys articles of association permit the Directors to authorise conflicts Key findings Progress made and potential conflicts, where appropriate.
The Board has established Given the scale of change in the sector the Board See Strategic leadership procedures for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for agreed to continue to devote more time to on page 53 and following the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
In reviewing the implementation of the strategy.
paragraphs accordance with the Act, the Board considered and authorised each Directors The Board would continue to develop strong See Induction and potential conflicts of interest during the year.
Whenever a Director takes on links to the broader management team.
development above additional external responsibilities, the Board considers any potential conflicts that may arise.
The Board continues to monitor and review potential 2015 16 Review conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The Board agreed that the 2015 16 review would be carried out by the Company Secretary.
The Board is satisfied that the internal review follows an The Board has specifically considered the executive or non-executive roles established process which enables a thorough evaluation with full and open that some of the Non-Executive Directors have with companies that may be participation from all Directors.
The key objectives were to determine whether suppliers to Sainsburys.
The Board is satisfied that the independence of the progress had continued on the key points raised by the previous evaluation Directors who have executive or non-executive roles with other companies is exercise, to identify any emerging themes, and to consider whether the Board not compromised.
and its Committees were working effectively.
Prior to appointment, each Non-Executive Director confirms that they will have sufficient time available to be able to discharge their responsibilities A questionnaire was circulated to all Directors seeking their evaluation of a effectively.
During the year, the Board reviewed, in advance, disclosures by number of matters, which was updated in order to include new questions Non-Executive Directors seeking to undertake additional commitments.
focused on specific points of interest.
The questionnaire covered strategy, TheBoard remains confident that individual members are able to devote Board and management succession, Board culture, balance and diversity, sufficient time to undertake their responsibilities effectively.
meetings and processes, investor relations, decision making, risk management and Board committees.
This was followed up in separate Induction and development discussions with each of the Directors to take their detailed feedback on any emerging themes.
The Company Secretary then presented the principal We have a programme for meeting Directors training and development conclusions to the Board at a meeting convened for that purpose, and the requirements.
Board discussed the key points and agreed certain actions.
Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored induction programme including store and depot visits and meetings with other members of the Board, members of the Operating Board, senior management and external advisers.
54 Governance Report As part of the Board Evaluation exercise, the Senior Independent Director webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk reviewed the Chairmans performance with the other Directors and investor-centre so as to be available to all investors.
subsequently met him to provide feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback to each Director on their individual contributions to the Board and, with each The Board receives feedback at each Board meeting on the views of major of them, considered their development priorities.
investors and the Investor Relations IR programme.
In addition, Makinson Cowell provides investor relations consultancy services to the Company and The Board concluded that good progress had been made under Mike Coupes external analysis to the Board on the views of institutional investors and leadership in the year and that the execution of the strategy was being well sell-side analysts.
Non-Executive Directors also receive regular market reports managed, with appropriate pace of change.
The strategic debate had been and broker updates from the Companys IR department.
effective with more opportunities to discuss key aspects, including a highly effective Strategy Conference.
The Committees were performing effectively Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the with good balance, debate and challenge.
AGM, which this year will be held on 6 July 2016.
There will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Mike Coupe will make a The Board identified the following actions: business presentation.
All resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to Continue to develop strong links with the Board of Sainsburys Bank and count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
the broader management team: Some specific items could be given more visibility at Board level, including Information on matters of particular interest to small shareholders is set out the work to increase diversity at all levels across the business: and on pages 152 to 154 and on the Companys website www.
co. uk Continue to monitor the broader competition landscape, given the extent investor-centre.
of the multi-channel retail market and the pace of change.
Board committees The last external evaluation was conducted in 2014.
It is therefore anticipated The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination, that the 2017 Board Evaluation will be externally facilitated.
Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committees.
The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys Investor relations website.
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Mike Coupe, Operating Board John Rogers and Duncan Cooper, Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman is Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating Board, generally available to shareholders and meets with institutional and other which is chaired by Mike Coupe.
The Operating Board held 11 scheduled large investors: the Senior Independent Director is also available as required.
meetings during the year and each Directors responsibilities are set out on pages 50 and 51.
It has formal terms of reference setting out its key responsibilities.
The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, are invited to The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading Board, the presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the Investment Board, the Group Safety Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Companys interim and full-year results.
They are also invited to participate in and Sustainability Steering Group, the Diversity Steering Group and the Data conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading Governance Committee, each of which has approved terms of reference statements.
The content of these presentations and conference calls are setting out its areas of responsibility.
J Sainsbury plc Board David Tyler PLC Committees Operating Board Audit Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Nomination Mike Coupe Committee Sustainability Committee Committee Committee David Keens Jean Tomlin Mary Harris David Tyler Operating Board Committees Corporate Data Responsibility Trading Investment Group Safety Diversity Governance and Sustainability Board Board Committee Steering Group Committee Steering Group Sarah Warby John Rogers Tim Fallowfield Angie Risby Tim Fallowfield Mike Coupe 55
