Governance Report Nomination Committee Succession planning The Board takes succession planning for both Board members and senior David Tyler, management very seriously.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are members Chairman, of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by David Tyler.
Mike Coupe is Nomination not a member of the Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
Committee Our Board evaluations consider the balance, skills and diversity of the Board.
They also consider succession planning.
The evaluation reviews any senior appointment processes during the year and identifies priorities for the year ahead.
We believe we have good balance and diversity amongst our Non-Executive Directors with several having extensive experience of consumer-facing businesses and other highly relevant skills derived from serving in a range of major executive and non-executive positions throughout their careers.
Each of our Non-Executive Directors has been recruited following a robust selection process which has been facilitated by Egon Zehnder International, who provide search and recruitment services for the Company.
Egon Zehnder was engaged to identify a suitable candidate to fill the vacancy Dear Shareholder, resulting from John McAdam stepping down from the Board at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee considered the balance of skills, experience and diversity of The Nomination Committee ensures that the Board and identified that the preferred candidate would have experience of running a major listed company, in order to complement the existing the Board has an effective balance of skills Board skills.
Following a thorough search process which involved meetings and experience around the Boardroom with the Chairman and other Directors, the Board was pleased to be able to table.
Succession and diversity at board and appoint Brian Cassin as a Non-Executive Director.
senior management levels are key aspects Our Non-Executive Directors tenure on our Board as at the year-end of our agenda.
is as follows: The key focus of the Committee this year has been on managing the Board tenure appointment process for a new Non-Executive Director to replace John Non-Executive Number Percentage McAdam and to decide upon his successor as Senior Independent Director.
0-1 years 1 14 The Committee has also continued to review the succession planning at the 2-3 years 2 29 Operating Board and senior management levels.
4-5 years 1 14 6-7 years 1 14 The appointment of Brian Cassin to the Board has been made taking into 8-9 years 1 14 account the balance of skills, experience and diversity of the Board as a 9-10 years 1 14 whole.
The Board is satisfied that it continues to have the necessary skills mix and experience to enable it to operate effectively.
The above table includes the Chairman.
On an annual basis, the Committee reviews succession plans for the Succession and diversity at senior management levels are key aspects of our Operating Board, as well as Divisional Director development and talent agenda.
The Committee also oversees the Companys approach to resourcing management.
the needs of the business, developing our colleagues and recruiting new talent.
Diversity on a broader basis is an important feature of the Committees The Committees terms of reference are available on the website at agenda.
A detailed summary of the diversity priorities is set out below.
co. uk investor-centre corporate-governance and set out the Committees responsibilities.
The Committee meets on such occasions as are necessary and in 2015 16 held two formal meetings and a number of other updates, particularly relating to the search process for the new Non-Executive Director.
David Tyler Chairman 56 Governance Report We aspire to take a leadership approach to disability, commensurate with our Diversity and inclusion Paralympic commitment to create a legacy of greater inclusion for people Our diversity and inclusion vision is to be the most inclusive retailer where with disabilities.
We sit on the Paralympic Legacy Advisory Group and take an people love to work and shop.
We will achieve this aspiration by recruiting, active role in the Governments Disability Confident campaign.
We are Partner retaining and developing diverse and talented people and creating an members of the Business Disability Forum and received two Disability-Smart inclusive environment where everyone can be the best they can be and Awards that recognise organisations that demonstrate an outstanding wherediverse views are listened to.
This will enable us to anticipate and commitment to employing and working with individuals with disabilities.
accommodate the needs of our diverse customers, reflecting the These awards were for our exclusively designed disabled child trolleys and for communities we serve.
our You Can scheme which helps those who have previously faced significant barriers to finding work, to enter the workplace.
Since its launch in 2008 we Four Board Sponsors lead our diversity strategy: Peter Griffiths gender, have successfully recruited over 25,000 colleagues through the You Can Angie Risley ethnicity, religion and belief, Tim Fallowfield disability and programme.
carers and Sarah Warby lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender.
Our Board Sponsors, together with our Head of Talent and Performance Deborah We are one of only a few FTSE 100 companies with a carers policy and have Dorman, form our Diversity Steering Group.
The Group meets regularly to worked closely with Carers UK over the last 16 years to ensure that we govern progress.
They are also responsible for updating the Board and properly support our estimated 18,000 colleagues with caring responsibilities.
In addition, we have 160 Diversity Champions who support Carers UK celebrated its 50th anniversary last year and we supported Carers the agenda in every part of our organisation.
Rights Day for the fifth year running.
Tim Fallowfield, Operating Board sponsor for Disability and Carers, also hosted the Carers Rights Day reception Over half of our colleagues are women and we are taking active steps to in parliament.
We hosted events for local support and community groups support talented women to develop their careers at all levels of management.
We also continue to invest in licences of Carers UKs At year-end, women made up 33 per cent of our Board and 22 per cent of our Jointly App for all our colleagues who are juggling work with caring Operating Board.
A number of our senior women also hold non-executive responsibilities.
director positions in other organisations.
However, there remain areas of management where women are under-represented.
Research shows that We are members of Stonewalls Diversity Champions programme and mentoring is a great way to support women with their career development featured for the first time in this years Stonewall Workplace Equality Index.
and our recently launched Mentoring Matters programme targeting women Sarah Warby, our LGBT sponsor, hosted the Stonewall Multi-Faith event in has been well received, with over 1,400 female colleagues signing up since early 2016, which saw attendees from diverse religious, spiritual and November 2015.
Over the last 12 months more of our colleagues have signed non-religious communities come together for discussion and networking.
up to the Inspiring the Future campaign, and we now have over 500 OurLGBTA lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allies network, Proud@ colleagues actively sharing their careers experience with young women and Sainsburys, continues to grow and engage with colleagues from across our girls in schools and colleges.
The elected co-chairs work alongside a panel of committed individuals to drive forward our LGBT agenda.
Last year we also attended 27 Colleagues Male Female Pride events across the UK and were presented with the Leeds Pride Partner Board 9 6 67% 3 33% of the Year award for our involvement with this event.
Operating Board 9 7 78% 2 22% Divisional Directors and Senior Managers 199 136 68% 63 32% Company 164,535 72,486 44% 92,049 56% We are Champion members of Race for Opportunity.
Around 14 per cent of the population of England and Wales and 11 per cent of the UK workforce is from a BAME Black Asian Ethnic Minority background.
This compares with 14 per cent of all Sainsburys colleagues.
We are working to increase our representation of BAME colleagues at management grades through participating both in Race for Opportunitys cross-organisational mentoring circles and our own internal mentoring networks.
Last year, we were also co-sponsors of the largest ever race at work survey in the UK.
Run by Business in the Community, the survey was completed by 24,000 working people over 4,000 of which were Sainsburys colleagues to better understand the experience of BAME people at work.
We are committed to supporting all of our BAME colleagues to reach their potential and are using these findings to inform our future plans.
