Audit Committee report Dear shareholder Responsibilities As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Below is a summary of the terms of Committee, I am pleased to present to reference of the Committee the full you this years Committee report which text of which is available on the Companys shows how the Committee applied the website www.
com : principles of the UK Corporate Governance  Financial reporting to provide support Code during 2016. to the Board by monitoring the integrity Key objective of financial reporting and ensuring that the published financial statements of the Acting on behalf of the Board, the Committees key objective is to provide Group and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial effective governance over the Companys financial reporting: this is achieved by performance comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting monitoring, reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in standards.
respect of:  Internal control and risk systems to review the effectiveness of the  the integrity of the Companys external financial reporting: Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
 the Companys system of internal control and compliance: and  Internal audit to monitor and review The Committees key the annual internal audit programme  the Companys external auditors.
objective is to provide ensuring that the internal audit function Membership and meetings effective governance is adequately resourced and free from Six Committee meetings were held during management restrictions, and to review over the Companys 2016.
At the request of the Committee and monitor responses to the findings financial reporting.
Chairman, the external auditors, the and recommendations of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary internal auditor.
Elmar Heggen acting as secretary to the Committee,  External audit to advise the Board the General Counsel and the Business Chairman on the appointment, reappointment, Assurance Director may attend each remuneration and removal of the meeting.
The Committee also when external auditor.
required, and at least annually, meets  Employee concerns to review the independently, without the presence Companys arrangements under which of management, with the Companys employees may in confidence raise any external auditors and with the Business concerns regarding possible wrongdoing Assurance Director to informally discuss in financial reporting or other matters.
Members of the Committee The Audit Committee ensures that these On 19 December 2016, as a result of arrangements allow proportionate the Scheme of Arrangement, Regus plc and independent investigation and ceased to be the holding company of appropriate follow-up action.
the Group and a new parent company, IWG plc, was created.
For the purposes The Chairman of the Audit Committee of Committee attendance, IWG plc is routinely reports to the Board on how treated as a continuation of Regus plc the Committee has discharged its and no distinction is drawn.
Committee responsibilities, as well as highlighting membership during the year and any concerns that have been raised as attendance at the meetings are and when they arise.
Attendance out of possible maximum number Length of tenure of Non-Executive Members of meetings Directors within the Committee Elmar Heggen, Chairman 6 6 2 0-3 years: 2 Lance Browne 6 6 3-6 years: 1 Nina Henderson 6 6 6-9 years: 2 Franois Pauly 6 6 Florence Pierre 6 6 All members of the Committee are 2 independent.
1 46 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 46 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report Dear shareholder Responsibilities Activities of the Audit Committee  Valuation of intangibles and goodwill: annual planning process, as well as the The Committee has considered Groups monthly review cycle.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Below is a summary of the terms of during the year Committee, I am pleased to present to reference of the Committee the full the impairment testing undertaken The following sections summarise the main The Groups principal risks, together with and disclosures made in relation to you this years Committee report which text of which is available on the Companys areas of focus of the Committee and the an explanation of how the Group manages shows how the Committee applied the website www.
com : the value of the Companys goodwill results of the work undertaken in 2016: these risks, are presented on pages 27 and intangibles and has challenged principles of the UK Corporate Governance to 32 of this Annual Report.
 Financial reporting to provide support Code during 2016. the key assumptions made by Financial reporting to the Board by monitoring the integrity Internal control management in their valuation The main focus of the Audit Committee was Key objective of financial reporting and ensuring that The Committee has a delegated methodology.
The Committee the review of the half-year results and this the published financial statements of the Acting on behalf of the Board, the responsibility from the Board for the considers that an appropriately Annual Report together with the formal Committees key objective is to provide Group and any formal announcements Companys system of internal control cautious approach has been used by announcements relating thereto: before relating to the Companys financial effective governance over the Companys and risk management and for reviewing the management and is satisfied that no recommending these to the Board we financial reporting: this is achieved by performance comply fully with the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system impairment of intangibles and goodwill ensure that the actions and judgements relevant statutes and accounting monitoring, reviewing and making is designed to identify, evaluate and control is required.
See notes 12 and 13 for made by management are appropriate.
recommendations to the Board in standards.
the significant risks associated with the further information.
Particular focus is given to: respect of:  Internal control and risk systems Groups achievement of its business Following its in-depth review of this Annual  critical accounting policies and practices to review the effectiveness of the objectives with a view to safeguarding  the integrity of the Companys external Report, the Committee has advised the and changes thereto: financial reporting: Groups internal controls and risk shareholders investments and the Groups Board that it considers the Annual Report, management systems.
Due to the limitations that are  changes in the control environment:  the Companys system of internal control taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and inherent in any system of internal control, and compliance: and  Internal audit to monitor and review  control observations identified by The Committees key understandable, providing the information this system is designed to meet the the annual internal audit programme the auditor:  the Companys external auditors.
necessary for shareholders to assess the objective is to provide Companys particular needs and the risks ensuring that the internal audit function  decisions delegated to and requiring Companys position and performance, Membership and meetings to which it is exposed, and is designed effective governance is adequately resourced and free from judgements by management: business model and strategy.
As such, Six Committee meetings were held during to manage rather than eliminate risk.
management restrictions, and to review over the Companys the Committee recommended the  adjustments resulting from the audit: 2016.
At the request of the Committee and monitor responses to the findings Accordingly, such a system can provide Annual Report to the Board.
Chairman, the external auditors, the  clarity of the disclosures made and and recommendations of the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Executive Directors, the Company Secretary compliance with accounting standards internal auditor.
against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management Elmar Heggen acting as secretary to the Committee, and relevant financial and governance  External audit to advise the Board In accordance with the FRC Revised On behalf of the Board, the Audit the General Counsel and the Business Chairman reporting requirements: and on the appointment, reappointment, Guidance, the Committee confirms that Committee oversees and reviews an Assurance Director may attend each  the process surrounding compilation remuneration and removal of the there is an ongoing process for identifying, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating meeting.
The Committee also when of the Annual Report and Accounts external auditor.
evaluating and managing the significant and managing the risks faced by the Group.
required, and at least annually, meets to ensure they are fair, balanced risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks and their financial  Employee concerns to review the independently, without the presence and reasonable.
implications are appraised by the Companys arrangements under which During the year under review, the of management, with the Companys The Committee formally considers and responsible executives as a part of the employees may in confidence raise any Committee continued to revisit its risk external auditors and with the Business minutes their consideration of the key planning process and are endorsed by concerns regarding possible wrongdoing identification and assessment processes, Assurance Director to informally discuss audit matters before recommending the regional management.
Key risks are in financial reporting or other matters.
inviting Board members and senior matters of interest.
Members of the Committee financial statements to the Board.
reported to the Audit Committee, which in The Audit Committee ensures that these management to convene and discuss the On 19 December 2016, as a result of turn ensures that the Board is made aware arrangements allow proportionate Groups key risks and mitigating controls.
the Scheme of Arrangement, Regus plc The Committee discussed and reviewed of them.
The appropriateness of controls and independent investigation and the following significant issues with KPMG ceased to be the holding company of A risk-based approach has been adopted in is considered by the executives, having appropriate follow-up action.
the Group and a new parent company, and management in relation to the financial establishing the Groups system of internal regard to cost, benefit, materiality and the statements for 2016: IWG plc, was created.
For the purposes The Chairman of the Audit Committee control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
Key risks of Committee attendance, IWG plc is routinely reports to the Board on how To identify and manage key risks:  Taxation: The Committee considered and actions to mitigate those risks were treated as a continuation of Regus plc the Committee has discharged its the taxation risks arising from the  a number of Group-wide procedures, considered by both the Audit Committee and no distinction is drawn.
Committee responsibilities, as well as highlighting Groups operations when assessing the policies and standards have been and the Board in the year under review, membership during the year and any concerns that have been raised as accounting for taxation related balances established: and were formally reviewed and approved attendance at the meetings are and when they arise.
and applied sensitivity analysis to  a framework for reporting and escalating by the Board.
The Company has put set out below.
determine the appropriateness of key systems in place to enable compliance matters of significance has been judgements.
Also assessed was the Attendance maintained: with the requirements of the EU Market out of possible recoverability of deferred tax assets Abuse Regulation since it came into effect  reviews of the effectiveness of maximum number and whether the recognition of additional Length of tenure of Non-Executive in July 2016.
Members of meetings management actions in addressing deferred tax assets would be appropriate.
Directors within the Committee key Group risks identified by the Elmar Heggen, The presentation and disclosure in Principal risks Board have been undertaken: and Chairman 6 6 accordance with IAS 1 and IAS 12 in There are a number of risks and Lance Browne 6 6  a system of regular reports from respect of taxation related balances uncertainties which could have an impact were considered as was whether the management setting out key Nina Henderson 6 6 on the Groups long-term performance.
performance and risk indicators has Groups disclosures reflected the risks Franois Pauly 6 6 The Group has a risk management structure inherent in the accounting for the been developed.
Florence Pierre 6 6 in place designed to identify, manage and taxation balances.
The Committee is mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment All members of the Committee are satisfied that appropriate judgements and evaluation is an integral part of the independent.
47 46 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 47 Audit Committee report continued The Committee and the Board regard The above process is designed to  The generation of targeted, actionprovide assurance by way of cumulative oriented reports from the Groups responsible corporate behaviour as an integral part of the overall governance assessment and is embedded in operational sales and operating systems on a management and governance processes.
daily, weekly and monthly basis, which framework and believe that it should be fully integrated into management provide management at all levels with Key elements of the Groups system performance data for their area of structures and systems.
Therefore, the of internal control which have operated risk management policies, procedures and responsibility, and which help them to throughout the year under review are focus on key issues and manage them monitoring methods described above apply as follows: equally to the identification, evaluation and more effectively:  The risk assessments of all significant control of the Companys safety, ethical and  The delivery of a centrally co-ordinated business decisions at the individual environmental risks and opportunities.
This assurance programme by the business transaction level, and as part of the approach ensures that the Company has assurance department that includes annual business planning process.
A the necessary and adequate information to key business risk areas.
The findings Group-wide risk register is maintained identify and assess risks and opportunities and recommendations of each review and updated at least annually whereby affecting the Companys long-term are reported to both management and all Company-inherent risks are identified value arising from its handling of the Committee: and and assessed, and appropriate action corporate responsibility and plans developed to manage the risk per  Annual internal control self-assessment corporate governance matters.
The Board and management certification exercise The Committee has completed its annual reviews the Groups principal risks covering the effectiveness of financial review of the effectiveness of the system register at least annually and and operational controls.
This is based of internal control for the year to management periodically reports on a comprehensive internal control 31 December 2016 and is satisfied on the progress against agreed actions questionnaire collated and reviewed that it is in accordance with the FRC to keep a close watch on how key risks by business assurance.
Results and any Revised Guidance and the Code.
The are managed: necessary mitigating action plans are assessment included consideration of presented to senior management and  The annual strategic planning process, the effectiveness of the Boards ongoing the Board.
which is designed to ensure consistency process for identifying, evaluating and with the Companys strategic objectives.
The maintenance of high standards of managing the risks facing the Group.
The final budget is reviewed and behaviour which are demanded from staff approved by the Board.
Performance at all levels in the Group.
The following Whistle-blowing policy is reviewed against objectives at procedures are in place to support this: The Company has an externally hosted each Board meeting:  a clearly defined organisation structure whistle-blowing channel EthicsPoint, with established responsibilities:  Comprehensive monthly business which is available to all employees via review processes under which business email, and on the Companys intranet.
 an induction process to educate new performance is reviewed at business team members on the standards required The aim of the policy is to encourage all centre, area, country, regional and employees, regardless of seniority, to bring from them in their role, including functional levels.
Actual results are business ethics and compliance, matters that cause them concern to the reviewed against targets, explanations attention of the Audit Committee.
regulation and internal policies: are received for all material movements,  the availability of the Team Member The Business Assurance Director, where and recovery plans are agreed appropriate and in consultation with the Handbook, via the Groups intranet, where appropriate: which contains the Companys Code of senior management team, decides on  The documentation of key policies the appropriate method and level of Business Conduct, detailed guidance on and control procedures including employee policies and the standards of investigation.
The Audit Committee is finance, operations, and health and notified of all material discourses made behaviour required of staff: safety having Group-wide application.
and receives reports on the results of  policies, procedure manuals and These are available to all staff via the investigations and actions taken on a guidelines are readily accessible Groups intranet system: regular basis.
The Audit Committee has through the Groups intranet site: the power to request further information,  Formal procedures for the review  operational audit and self-certification and approval of all investment conduct its own inquiries or order tools which require individual managers additional action as it sees fit.
The Group to confirm their adherence to Group Investment Committee reviews and policies and procedures: and approves all investments.
Additionally,  a Group-wide policy to recruit the form and content of routine and develop appropriately skilled investment proposals are standardised management and staff of high calibre and to facilitate the review process: integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
 The delegation of authority limits with regard to the approval of transactions.
48 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 48 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report continued The Committee and the Board regard The above process is designed to  The generation of targeted, actionExternal audit Measures in place to safeguard KPMGs In assessing the effectiveness of the provide assurance by way of cumulative oriented reports from the Groups responsible corporate behaviour as an independence were: external audit process for 2016 the KPMG Luxemburg was Regus plcs auditor integral part of the overall governance assessment and is embedded in operational sales and operating systems on a for the year ended 31 December 2016 and Committee has considered:  the Companys policy to use the external management and governance processes.
daily, weekly and monthly basis, which framework and believe that it should it remains so after this date.
KPMG Ireland auditor for non-audit-related services  the audit process as a whole and its be fully integrated into management provide management at all levels with KPMG were appointed in 2016 as the suitability for the challenges facing Key elements of the Groups system only where the use of the external performance data for their area of structures and systems.
Therefore, the auditors of IWG plc, following the Scheme of internal control which have operated auditor will deliver a demonstrable the Group: risk management policies, procedures and responsibility, and which help them to of Arrangement.
Whilst IWG plc is a Jersey throughout the year under review are benefit to the Company as compared to  the strength and independence of focus on key issues and manage them monitoring methods described above apply company, after consultation with KPMG, the as follows: the use of other potential providers of the external audit team: equally to the identification, evaluation and more effectively: committee determined that appointing a the services and where it will not impair  The risk assessments of all significant  the audit teams understanding of control of the Companys safety, ethical and Jersey registered KPMG Dublin audit  The delivery of a centrally co-ordinated their independence or objectivity: business decisions at the individual the control environment: environmental risks and opportunities.
This partner would best serve the needs assurance programme by the business transaction level, and as part of the  all proposals for permitted defined nonapproach ensures that the Company has of the Group.
The Audit Committee is  the culture of the external auditor in assurance department that includes annual business planning process.
A audit services to use the external auditor the necessary and adequate information to responsible for oversight of the external seeking continuous improvement and key business risk areas.
The findings Group-wide risk register is maintained must be submitted to, and authorised by, identify and assess risks and opportunities auditor, including an annual assessment increased quality: and recommendations of each review and updated at least annually whereby the Chief Financial Officer: permitted affecting the Companys long-term of their independence and objectivity and are reported to both management and  the quality and timeliness of all Company-inherent risks are identified non-audit services include advice on value arising from its handling of the measures in place to safeguard this.
the Committee: and communications and reports and assessed, and appropriate action financial accounting and regulatory corporate responsibility and During the year, KPMG audited the received: and plans developed to manage the risk per  Annual internal control self-assessment reporting matters, reviews of internal corporate governance matters.
consolidated financial statements the Companys risk appetite.
The Board and management certification exercise accounting and risk management  the quality of interaction with The Committee has completed its annual of the Group and provided an overview reviews the Groups principal risks covering the effectiveness of financial controls, non-statutory audits e. g. management.
review of the effectiveness of the system of the half-year results of the Company.
register at least annually and and operational controls.
This is based regarding acquisitions and disposal of Following the Committees assessment of internal control for the year to management periodically reports on a comprehensive internal control assets and interests in companies and KPMG performed non-audit services in of the effectiveness of the external audit 31 December 2016 and is satisfied on the progress against agreed actions questionnaire collated and reviewed relation to: the Scheme of Arrangement, tax compliance and advisory services: process for 2016 and of KPMGs continuing that it is in accordance with the FRC to keep a close watch on how key risks by business assurance.
Results and any tax services to India and Venezuela and  prohibited non-audit services include independence, the Committee has Revised Guidance and the Code.
The are managed: necessary mitigating action plans are building certification services to Australia.
book-keeping and other accounting recommended to the Board that a assessment included consideration of presented to senior management and Where such services are provided an  The annual strategic planning process, services, actuarial valuation services, resolution to reappoint KPMG as the the effectiveness of the Boards ongoing the Board.
explanation of how auditor objectivity which is designed to ensure consistency recruitment services in relation to key Companys auditor in respect of the process for identifying, evaluating and and independence are safeguarded needs with the Companys strategic objectives.
The maintenance of high standards of management positions and transaction financial year ending 31 December 2017 managing the risks facing the Group.
The final budget is reviewed and behaviour which are demanded from staff acquisitions, mergers and dispositions be proposed at the annual general meeting.
The following work that includes investment banking Notwithstanding the Audit Committees Whistle-blowing policy is reviewed against objectives at procedures are in place to support this: services, preparation of forecasts or continued satisfaction with the The Company has an externally hosted each Board meeting: investment proposals and deal  a clearly defined organisation structure performance of KPMG, as previously whistle-blowing channel EthicsPoint, execution services: and with established responsibilities:  Comprehensive monthly business noted, the Committee has recommended which is available to all employees via review processes under which business  KPMG is required to adhere to a rotation to the Board that a tendering process email, and on the Companys intranet.
 an induction process to educate new performance is reviewed at business policy requiring rotation of the lead audit for the external audit should be launched, team members on the standards required The aim of the policy is to encourage all centre, area, country, regional and partner at least every five years.
A new during 2018. employees, regardless of seniority, to bring from them in their role, including functional levels.
Actual results are lead audit partner took responsibility business ethics and compliance, matters that cause them concern to the Elmar Heggen reviewed against targets, explanations for the audit in respect of the financial attention of the Audit Committee.
regulation and internal policies: Chairman, Audit Committee are received for all material movements, year ended 31 December 2016.
 the availability of the Team Member The Business Assurance Director, where and recovery plans are agreed The breakdown of the fees paid to the appropriate and in consultation with the Handbook, via the Groups intranet, where appropriate: external auditor during the year to 31 which contains the Companys Code of senior management team, decides on  The documentation of key policies December 2016 can be found in note the appropriate method and level of Business Conduct, detailed guidance on and control procedures including 5 of the notes to the financial statements employee policies and the standards of investigation.
The Audit Committee is finance, operations, and health and on page 79. notified of all material discourses made behaviour required of staff: safety having Group-wide application.
49 48 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 49 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
