Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder Succession planning I am pleased to present to you my We ensure that succession plans are report on the Nomination Committee in place for the orderly succession for the Committee.
appointments to the Board and senior management positions, so that there Although there were no changes to the is an appropriate balance of skills and Board composition, key activities in 2016 experience within the Company and included the consideration of my successor on the Board.
as Senior Independent NonExecutive Director and Nomination Committee Succession planning discussions continue Chairman as I step down from the Board to be an integral priority of the Groups after nine years.
I am delighted with the business planning and review process, proposal that Franois Pauly takes on these as is the continued development of both responsibilities.
management capacity and capabilities within the business.
Our Board composition Terms of reference As at the date of this report, the Board comprises eight members, being: Below is a summary of the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee: the Chairman Douglas Sutherland : Board appointment and composition two Executive Directors: and to regularly review the structure, size Our aim is for our Board five Non-Executive Directors.
and composition of the Board and and senior management IWG maintains a Board whose breadth make recommendations on the role and team to be reflective of and scope in terms of expertise, gender and nomination of Directors for appointment nationality reflect the size and geographical and reappointment to the Board for the the international nature reach of the business.
We believe the Board purpose of ensuring a balanced and of our business and the is the right size to meet the requirements diverse Board in respect of skills, communities in which of the business and any changes to the knowledge and experience.
Boards composition and to its committees we operate.
Board Committees to make can be managed without undue disruption.
recommendations to the Board in Board appointments Lance Browne relation to the suitability of candidates Our regular internal Board review process for membership of the Audit and Chairman monitors effectiveness, performance, Remuneration Committees.
The balance, independence, leadership and appointment and removal of Directors succession planning, enabling us to identify are matters reserved for the full Board.
the capabilities and roles required for a Board effectiveness to review annually Members of the Committee particular Board appointment.
In view of and make appropriate recommendations On 19 December 2016, as a result of the future development of the Group and to the Board.
the Scheme of Arrangement, Regus plc our objective to continue to place strong ceased to be the holding company of emphasis on the diversity of the Board, the Group and a new parent company, the Nomination Committee maintains IWG plc, was created.
For the purposes an ongoing programme of engagement of Committee attendance, IWG plc is with highly qualified female and male treated as a continuation of Regus plc Non-Executive Director candidates of and no distinction is drawn.
Committee varied education, backgrounds and membership during the year and business experience.
attendance at the meetings are We maintain a policy of diversity, as is set out below.
reflected in our current Board of two Attendance women and six men, representing six out of possible nationalities and seven countries of maximum number residence.
Along with their international Members of meetings Length of tenure of Non-Executive operational experience, they also bring Lance Browne, Directors within the Committee in-depth working knowledge of multiple Chairman 4 4 industries, business and organisational Elmar Heggen 4 4 2 models, corporate cultures, functional 0-3 years: 2 Nina Henderson 4 4 areas and business issues.
Biographical 3-6 years: 1 Franois Pauly 4 4 details of the Directors are on pages 36 6-9 years: 3 Florence Pierre 4 4 to 37.
We continue to monitor the broader discussion on diversity which we take into Douglas Sutherland 4 4 consideration whilst maintaining a merit 1 All members of the Committee are based approach to recommendations for independent.
44 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 44 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder Succession planning Gender split of board Gender split of business centre Gender split of Group employees I am pleased to present to you my We ensure that succession plans are employees report on the Nomination Committee in place for the orderly succession for 25% 77% 51% the Committee.
appointments to the Board and senior Female: 25% Female: 77% Female: 51% management positions, so that there Although there were no changes to the Male: 75% Male: 23% Male: 49% is an appropriate balance of skills and 23% Board composition, key activities in 2016 experience within the Company and included the consideration of my successor 75% on the Board.
as Senior Independent NonExecutive Director and Nomination Committee Succession planning discussions continue Chairman as I step down from the Board to be an integral priority of the Groups 49% after nine years.
management capacity and capabilities Board performance to assist the Our Board composition within the business.
Chairman with the annual performance Our Board composition As at the date of this report, the evaluation to assess the performance Terms of reference As at the date of this report, the Board Board comprises eight members: the and effectiveness of the overall Board comprises eight members, being: Below is a summary of the terms of Chairman Douglas Sutherland, five and individual Directors.
reference of the Nomination Committee: the Chairman Douglas Sutherland : Non-Executive Directors and two Leadership to remain fully informed Board appointment and composition two Executive Directors: and Executive Directors.
The Board considers about strategic issues and commercial to regularly review the structure, size Our aim is for our Board all the Non-Executive Directors to be five Non-Executive Directors.
matters affecting the Company and to and composition of the Board and and senior management independent.
The names of the Directors IWG maintains a Board whose breadth keep under review the leadership needs make recommendations on the role and serving as at 31 December 2016 and team to be reflective of and scope in terms of expertise, gender and of the organisation to enable it to nomination of Directors for appointment their biographical details are set out nationality reflect the size and geographical compete effectively.
and reappointment to the Board for the the international nature on pages 36 and 37. reach of the business.
We believe the Board purpose of ensuring a balanced and Complete details of the above are available of our business and the All Directors served throughout the is the right size to meet the requirements diverse Board in respect of skills, on the Companys website: year under review.
communities in which of the business and any changes to the knowledge and experience.
com Boards composition and to its committees IWGs aim is to appoint a Board with we operate.
Board Committees to make Lance Browne can be managed without undue disruption.
varied backgrounds and gender to recommendations to the Board in Chairman, Nomination Committee reflect the society in which we operate.
Board appointments Lance Browne relation to the suitability of candidates Our regular internal Board review process for membership of the Audit and Chairman monitors effectiveness, performance, Remuneration Committees.
Along with their international Members of meetings Length of tenure of Non-Executive operational experience, they also bring Lance Browne, Directors within the Committee in-depth working knowledge of multiple Chairman 4 4 industries, business and organisational Elmar Heggen 4 4 models, corporate cultures, functional Nina Henderson 4 4 areas and business issues.
Biographical Franois Pauly 4 4 details of the Directors are on pages 36 Florence Pierre 4 4 to 37.
We continue to monitor the broader discussion on diversity which we take into Douglas Sutherland 4 4 consideration whilst maintaining a merit All members of the Committee are based approach to recommendations for independent.
45 44 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 45
