Corporate Governance The good governance of the Company is the responsibility and focus of your Board Dear shareholder I trust that you will find our reports to be fair, balanced and understandable: this This section is concerned with good governance and the approach that your is a reflection of how we do business and how the Board serves its stakeholders.
Board takes in order to promote an effective and robust governance structure Board composition within the Group.
It is the responsibility The composition of the Board remained of your Board to ensure and be responsible unchanged during the year.
With the for the long-term success of the Company.
resignation of Lance Browne and the During the year, as a result of the Scheme of proposal of Franois Pauly to replace him as Arrangement completed on 19 December Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 2016, Regus plc ceased to be the holding and Nomination Committee Chairman with company of the Group and a new parent effect from the annual general meeting, we company, IWG plc, was created.
The Board will maintain a Board based on merit which and committees of IWG plc after the we believe encompasses the broad range reorganisation were therefore treated as a of skills, backgrounds and experience continuation of the Board and committees necessary to properly serve our of Regus plc prior to the reorganisation.
The mix of Board members brings together many backgrounds and Through the detail provided in the nationalities covering diverse executive reports contained in this section, I hope Your Board strives to responsibilities and, additionally, each we can provide you with an insight into facilitate effective, member brings with them distinct yet how we continually strive to achieve complementary personal experiences entrepreneurial and effective governance.
and approaches to matters which include prudent management in Our approach to governance the evaluation of opportunities and We firmly believe that good governance order to deliver the longmanagement of risks.
We continue to see starts with a strong Board providing the rewards and benefits of having such term success of the entrepreneurial leadership and setting strength and diversity on the Board.
Company the values of the Group against a backdrop Nomination Committee of prudent and appropriate safeguards, The Nomination Committee report is set checks and balances which are regularly Douglas Sutherland out on pages 44 to 45. reviewed and which ensure that the right Chairman considerations underpin every decision Remuneration Committee we make.
The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages 50 to 60 including the As your Board, it is our responsibility, Remuneration Policy on pages 51 to 55. through a culture of openness and debate, to determine the conduct of the Group's Audit Committee and auditors business with particular focus on the In view of our continuing long-term following areas: ambition for growth and the significant investments that have been made across  performance and progress: the business, the Audit Committee has  major risks and their mitigation: continued to play a substantial role in  strategy: ensuring appropriate governance and  ethics, behaviours and values: challenge around our risk and assurance processes.
This is covered in further detail  people and how we can create a on pages 27 to 32.
Full details of the work high-performing team: of the Audit Committee are in the Audit  future development and succession: Committee report on pages 46 In this section  customers: and to 49.
Douglas Sutherland Chairman 38 Corporate governance 44 Nomination Committee report 46 Audit Committee report 50 Directors Remuneration report 61 Directors report 62 Directors statements 38 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 38 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance The good governance of the Company is the responsibility and focus of your Board Dear shareholder I trust that you will find our reports to be The Board has a formal schedule of matters The main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code fair, balanced and understandable: this reserved for its decision and which cannot This section is concerned with good relate to leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration governance and the approach that your is a reflection of how we do business and be delegated.
These include: how the Board serves its stakeholders.
Board takes in order to promote an  approval of long-term objectives effective and robust governance structure Board composition and commercial strategy: UK Corporate Governance Leadership within the Group.
It is the responsibility The composition of the Board remained  approval of the annual budget: of your Board to ensure and be responsible Role of the Board Code unchanged during the year.
With the  approval of regulatory announcements for the long-term success of the Company.
The role of your Board is to facilitate The UK Corporate Governance Code, resignation of Lance Browne and the including the interim and annual financial effective, entrepreneurial and prudent as published by the Financial Reporting During the year, as a result of the Scheme of proposal of Franois Pauly to replace him as statements: management and through that to be Council in September 2014 and available Arrangement completed on 19 December Senior Independent Non-Executive Director collectively responsible for the long-term  approval of terms of reference on www.
uk the Code, sets out 2016, Regus plc ceased to be the holding and Nomination Committee Chairman with success of the Company.
The Board sets: and membership of the Board a series of principles and provisions company of the Group and a new parent effect from the annual general meeting, we and its Committees: documenting good practice in governance.
company, IWG plc, was created.
The Board will maintain a Board based on merit which  the strategy for the Group and ensures Our Corporate Governance Report is and committees of IWG plc after the we believe encompasses the broad range that the necessary resources, measures  approval of risk management strategy: structured to report against the main reorganisation were therefore treated as a of skills, backgrounds and experience and controls are in place to implement  changes to the Groups capital structure: principles of the Code, which relate to: continuation of the Board and committees necessary to properly serve our the agreed strategy and to monitor  changes to the Groups management leadership, effectiveness, accountability, of Regus plc prior to the reorganisation.
The mix of Board members performance: and and control structure: remuneration and relations with brings together many backgrounds and Through the detail provided in the  the values and standards which form shareholders.
Together with the Audit  capital expenditure in excess of 5m: and nationalities covering diverse executive reports contained in this section, I hope the basis of the corporate culture of Your Board strives to Committee Report, the Nomination responsibilities and, additionally, each  material contracts annual value in excess we can provide you with an insight into the Company.
facilitate effective, Committee Report and the Directors member brings with them distinct yet of 5m.
how we continually strive to achieve Role of the Chairman Remuneration Report, this Corporate complementary personal experiences entrepreneurial and effective governance.
Minutes are taken of all Board discussions The Chairman: Governance Report shows how we have and approaches to matters which include and decisions.
In the event that a Director prudent management in Our approach to governance  is responsible for leadership of the applied the principles of the Code during the evaluation of opportunities and has a concern about the running of the We firmly believe that good governance order to deliver the long- 2016 when we complied with all the Board and ensuring its effectiveness management of risks.
We continue to see Company or a proposed action, and such starts with a strong Board providing on all aspects of its role: provisions of the Code except in relation the rewards and benefits of having such term success of the concern remains unresolved, Directors entrepreneurial leadership and setting to Senior Independent Director contact with strength and diversity on the Board.
 sets the Board meeting schedule ensure that any such concerns are recorded Company the values of the Group against a backdrop major shareholders.
Further information on and agenda: and Nomination Committee in the Board minutes.
of prudent and appropriate safeguards, this is provided in our Compliance The Nomination Committee report is set  ensures that each meeting covers an checks and balances which are regularly Board Committees Douglas Sutherland Statement on page 43. out on pages 44 to 45. appropriate range of topics including reviewed and which ensure that the right There are three committees which support Chairman operations, strategy, business considerations underpin every decision Remuneration Committee the Board: development, special projects we make.
The Directors Remuneration report is set  the Audit Committee: and administrative matters.
out on pages 50 to 60 including the As your Board, it is our responsibility,  the Remuneration Committee: and Remuneration Policy on pages 51 to 55.
Board meetings through a culture of openness and debate,  the Nomination Committee, In 2016 the Board met seven times.
On 19 to determine the conduct of the Group's Audit Committee and auditors the Committees.
December 2016, as a result of the Scheme business with particular focus on the In view of our continuing long-term of Arrangement, Regus plc ceased to be the following areas: The Committees have been delegated ambition for growth and the significant holding company of the Group and a new certain powers by the Board, further details investments that have been made across  performance and progress: parent company, IWG plc, was created.
For of which, together with the work of the the business, the Audit Committee has  major risks and their mitigation: the purposes of Board meeting attendance, Committees, can be found on pages 44 continued to play a substantial role in  strategy: IWG plc is treated as a continuation of to 60.
The terms of reference of each ensuring appropriate governance and Regus plc and no distinction is drawn.
Committee can be found on the  ethics, behaviours and values: challenge around our risk and assurance Details of Board membership throughout Companys website: www.
This is covered in further detail  people and how we can create a the year and attendance at meetings are set on pages 27 to 32.
Full details of the work The Company Secretary acts as high-performing team: out below: of the Audit Committee are in the Audit Secretary to all the Committees and  future development and succession: Committee report on pages 46 Attendance minutes of meetings are circulated In this section  customers: and out of possible to 49. to all Board members.
maximum number  accountability to shareholders.
Douglas Sutherland Members of meetings : Chairman Douglas Sutherland, Chairman 7 7 Lance Browne 6 7 38 Corporate governance Dominik fide Daniel 7 7 44 Nomination Committee report Mark Dixon 7 7 46 Audit Committee report Elmar Heggen 7 7 50 Directors Remuneration report Nina Henderson 7 7 61 Directors report Franois Pauly 7 7 62 Directors statements Florence Pierre 7 7 39 38 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 39 Corporate Governance continued Re-election of the Board Development, information and support Effectiveness All Executive and Non-Executive Directors All Directors have: Board composition submit themselves for re-election by The Board currently comprises the  the opportunity to meet with major shareholders annually.
Directors appointed Chairman, two Executive Directors and five shareholders and have access to the during the period since the last annual Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Companys operations and employees.
general meeting are required to seek considers all Non-Executive Directors to be  access to training which is provided on an election at the next annual general meeting independent and they each bring their own ongoing basis to meet particular needs under the Companys articles of association.
senior-level experience and objectivity to with the emphasis on governance and There have been no Directors appointed the Board.
During the during the period since the last annual The composition of the Board and year the Company Secretary provided general meeting.
Committees are both regularly reviewed.
updates to the Board on relevant Time commitment The Board considers that with the proposal governance matters, whilst the Audit In accordance with the terms of their of Franois Pauly as Senior Independent Committee regularly considers new appointment agreements, the Chairman and Non-Executive Director and Nomination accounting developments through all Non-Executive Directors are expected to Committee Chairman, with effect from presentations from management, internal allocate such time as is necessary for the Lance Brownes stepping down from the business assurance and the external proper performance of their duties as Board, it will maintain the correct balance auditors.
Directors of the Company and are required of expertise, skills and dedication in order  access to the advice and services of the to advise the Board if there is a change in to discharge its duties effectively.
Company Secretary, who is responsible circumstances which will impact on the Board appointments and succession for ensuring that Board procedures, time they are able to dedicate to the The Nomination Committee continues to be corporate governance and regulatory Company.
compliance are followed and complied responsible for leading the process for Copies of all Non-Executives appointment Board appointments, which it does on the with.
Appointment and removal of the agreements are available for inspection at Company Secretary is a matter reserved basis of the evaluation of the balance of the Companys Registered Office during skills, experience, independence and for the Board.
normal business hours and at the annual knowledge, and succession planning.
The Board programme includes the receipt general meeting.
Details of other Further details of the Nomination of monthly Board reports and presentations commitments held by the Directors are Committees work and responsibilities given at Board meetings from management disclosed on pages 36 and 37. are contained on pages 44 and 45. with strategic responsibilities.
These, together with site visits, increase the NonExecutive Directors understanding of the business and sector.
Should a Director request independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such advice is available to him or her at the Companys expense.
Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Role of Board members There is a clear division of Chairman Chief Executive responsibilities at the head of the Responsible for leadership of the Board, Responsible for formulating strategy and Company between the running of the setting its agenda and monitoring its for its delivery once agreed by the Board.
Board and the running of the Companys effectiveness.
He ensures that adequate time He creates a framework of strategy, values, business.
No one individual Director has is available for discussion of all agenda items, organisation and objectives to ensure the unfettered powers of decision-making in particular strategic issues.
Additionally, successful delivery of key targets, and and all Directors are required to act in the he ensures effective communication with allocates decision-making and best interests of the Company.
shareholders and that the Board is aware responsibilities accordingly.
of the views of major shareholders.
He Dominik fide Daniel facilitates both the contribution of the NonChief Financial Officer Executive Directors and constructive relations and Chief Operating Officer between the Executive Directors and NonExecutive Directors, and regularly meets Responsible as CFO for leading the finance with the Non-Executive Directors without and accounting functions.
He is also the Executive Directors being present.
In responsible for business ethics, good addition, he oversees the corporate governance, assisting with strategy and responsibility activities of the Group, compliance.
Responsible as COO for the including community projects and implementation of the strategy across environmental impact initiatives.
40 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 40 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance continued Re-election of the Board Development, information and support Board performance Going concern Effectiveness Accountability All Executive and Non-Executive Directors All Directors have: The Senior Independent Director annually The Directors, having made appropriate Board composition Financial and business reporting submit themselves for re-election by leads the Non-Executive Directors enquiries, have a reasonable expectation The Board currently comprises the  the opportunity to meet with major In accordance with its responsibilities the shareholders annually.
Directors appointed performance evaluation of the Chairman, that the Group and the Company have Chairman, two Executive Directors and five shareholders and have access to the Board considers this Annual Report and during the period since the last annual taking the views of the Executive Directors adequate resources to continue in Non-Executive Directors.
Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, general meeting are required to seek into account.
operational existence for a period of at considers all Non-Executive Directors to be  access to training which is provided on an balanced and understandable in addition to election at the next annual general meeting least 12 months from the date of approval independent and they each bring their own Last year an independent external ongoing basis to meet particular needs providing the information necessary for under the Companys articles of association.
For this reason, senior-level experience and objectivity to evaluation of the Board was carried out.
with the emphasis on governance and shareholders to assess the Companys There have been no Directors appointed they continue to adopt the going concern the Board.
An annual internal evaluation of Board accounting developments.
During the position and performance, business model during the period since the last annual basis in preparing the accounts on pages performance was conducted for 2016.
The composition of the Board and year the Company Secretary provided and strategy.
The results were reviewed and incorporated Committees are both regularly reviewed.
updates to the Board on relevant A statement by the Companys auditor Time commitment in our ongoing efforts to continuously In adopting the going concern basis for The Board considers that with the proposal governance matters, whilst the Audit about their responsibilities in relation to the improve the processes and effectiveness preparing the financial statements, the In accordance with the terms of their of Franois Pauly as Senior Independent Committee regularly considers new Annual Report and Accounts is included on appointment agreements, the Chairman and of the Board.
There were no reportable Directors have considered the further Non-Executive Director and Nomination accounting developments through pages 63 to 65. matters identified and we continue to information included in the business all Non-Executive Directors are expected to Committee Chairman, with effect from presentations from management, internal The Board conducts regular reviews of the allocate such time as is necessary for the have full confidence in the Boards activities commentary as set out on pages Lance Brownes stepping down from the business assurance and the external Groups strategic direction.
Country and members and processes.
14 to 19, as well as the Groups principal proper performance of their duties as Board, it will maintain the correct balance auditors.
regional strategic objectives, plans and Directors of the Company and are required risks and uncertainties as set out on pages of expertise, skills and dedication in order  access to the advice and services of the performance targets are set by the 27 to 32. to advise the Board if there is a change in to discharge its duties effectively.
Company Secretary, who is responsible Executive Directors and are regularly circumstances which will impact on the Further details on the going concern basis Board appointments and succession for ensuring that Board procedures, reviewed by the Board in the context of the time they are able to dedicate to the of preparation can be found in note 23 of The Nomination Committee continues to be corporate governance and regulatory Groups overall objectives.
the notes to the accounts on page 92. compliance are followed and complied responsible for leading the process for the basis on which the Company generates Copies of all Non-Executives appointment Board appointments, which it does on the with.
Appointment and removal of the and preserves value over the longer term agreements are available for inspection at Company Secretary is a matter reserved basis of the evaluation of the balance of and the strategy for delivering the the Companys Registered Office during skills, experience, independence and for the Board.
objectives of the Company are contained in normal business hours and at the annual knowledge, and succession planning.
The Board programme includes the receipt the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35. general meeting.
Lance Browne Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Non-Executive Directors Timothy Regan Role of Board members There is a clear division of Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Director The independent counsel, character and Company Secretary responsibilities at the head of the judgement of the Non-Executive Directors The Senior Independent Director acts as a Responsible for leadership of the Board, Responsible for formulating strategy and The Company Secretary is responsible for Company between the running of the enhances the development of strategy and setting its agenda and monitoring its for its delivery once agreed by the Board.
sounding board and confidant for the advising the Board, through the Board and the running of the Companys the overall decision-making of the Board.
Chairman, as an intermediary for other effectiveness.
He ensures that adequate time He creates a framework of strategy, values, Chairman, on all governance matters and business.
No one individual Director has The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the is available for discussion of all agenda items, organisation and objectives to ensure the Directors as and when necessary and leads ensuring that appropriate minutes are unfettered powers of decision-making performance of management and monitor the appraisal of the Chairmans in particular strategic issues.
Additionally, successful delivery of key targets, and taken of all Board meetings and and all Directors are required to act in the the reporting of performance, satisfying he ensures effective communication with allocates decision-making and performance.
He is also available to discussions.
best interests of the Company.
themselves on the integrity of financial shareholders if they have concerns that shareholders and that the Board is aware responsibilities accordingly.
information and that financial controls and of the views of major shareholders.
He cannot be resolved through normal Dominik fide Daniel systems of risk management are robust and channels.
facilitates both the contribution of the Nondefensible.
They are also responsible for Chief Financial Officer Executive Directors and constructive relations and Chief Operating Officer determining appropriate levels of executive between the Executive Directors and Nonremuneration.
Executive Directors, and regularly meets Responsible as CFO for leading the finance with the Non-Executive Directors without and accounting functions.
He is also Non-Executive Directors are subject to the the Executive Directors being present.
In responsible for business ethics, good re-election requirements and serve the addition, he oversees the corporate governance, assisting with strategy and Company under letters of appointment, responsibility activities of the Group, compliance.
Responsible as COO for the which have an initial three-year term.
including community projects and implementation of the strategy across environmental impact initiatives.
41 40 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 41 Corporate Governance continued Longer-term viability The Board has delegated authority for Remuneration overseeing and reviewing the process The Directors have also assessed the Remuneration Committee viability of the Group and Company over of identifying, managing and reviewing The Board has established a Remuneration risks to the Audit Committee, which reports a three-year period to 31 December 2019.
Committee with responsibility for the This is based on three years of strategic regularly to the Board.
design and implementation of the outlook and planning and related stress Remuneration Policy for both Executive Internal control systems scenario testing.
Whilst the Board has no The Board has delegated its responsibility Directors and the Chairman.
In doing so, reason to believe that the Group will not be the Committee will pay due regard to for the Companys system of internal viable over a longer period, using a threecontrol and risk management and for wider remuneration trends across the year period was chosen to give greater Group, legal requirements and best ensuring the effectiveness of this system certainty over the assumptions used.
Details of the corporate governance.
The aim is to ensure our Remuneration Policy is In making their assessment, the Directors system and the Committees review of took account of the further information its effectiveness are reported on pages aligned to Company strategy, key business objectives and the best interests of our included in the business activities 46 to 48. commentary as set out on pages 14 to 19, shareholders and stakeholders.
Further Audit Committee and auditors details of the Remuneration Committees as well as the Groups principal risks and The Board has established an Audit uncertainties and related mitigation work is contained on pages 50 to 60.
In Committee consisting entirely of order to maintain transparency, approval approaches as set out on pages 27 to 32.
They assessed potential financial and for the Companys Remuneration Policy and The Audit Committee has responsibility the Annual Report on Remuneration will be operational aspects of various severe for ensuring the integrity of financial but plausible scenarios in the context sought at the annual general meeting.
information and the effectiveness of of these principal risks and uncertainties financial controls and the internal control and potential combinations thereof along and risk management system.
Further with the likely effectiveness of available details of the Audit Committees work mitigating actions.
and responsibilities are contained on Based on this assessment, the Directors pages 46 to 49. have a reasonable expectation that the All members of the Audit Committee are Group and Company will be able to considered by the Board to be competent continue in operation and meet all in accounting and or auditing.
Furthermore, their liabilities as they fall due over and in compliance with the Code, the Board the period up to 31 December 2019. regards Elmar Heggen as the Committee Principal risks member possessing recent and relevant The Board is responsible for assessing financial experience.
the nature and extent of the principal risks On recommendation of the Audit it is willing to take to achieve its strategic Committee, it is intended that a tender objectives and also those risks that threaten process for the external audit should its business model, future performance, be launched during 2018 and it is solvency or liquidity.
The key risks to the proposed that KPMG be re-appointed Group and the steps taken to manage and as the auditor for the financial year mitigate them which were reviewed and ending 31 December 2017. approved by the Board are detailed on pages 27 to 32.
A clearly defined An induction process Provision to all team Control environment organisation structure to educate new team members of a copy High standards of behaviour are with established members on the of the Team Member demanded from staff at all levels within responsibilities: standards required Handbook which the Group.
The following procedures are from them in their contains detailed in place to support this: role, including guidance on business ethics and employee policies compliance, and the standards regulations and of behaviour internal policies: required of staff: 42 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 42 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance continued Longer-term viability The Board has delegated authority for Remuneration Relations with shareholders Annual general meeting Compliance statement overseeing and reviewing the process The Directors have also assessed the Remuneration Committee Dialogue with shareholders The annual general meeting each year is The Company has complied with the viability of the Group and Company over of identifying, managing and reviewing The Board has established a Remuneration The Company reports formally to held in May.
From 2017, the annual general provisions of the Code throughout the risks to the Audit Committee, which reports a three-year period to 31 December 2019.
Committee with responsibility for the shareholders twice a year, with the meeting will be held in Switzerland and year ended 31 December 2016, with This is based on three years of strategic regularly to the Board.
design and implementation of the half-year results typically announced in will be attended, other than in exceptional the exception of the following: outlook and planning and related stress Remuneration Policy for both Executive August and the final results in March.
There Internal control systems circumstances, by all members of the Board.
 Provision E. 1.1 the Senior Independent scenario testing.
In doing so, are programmes for the Chief Executive In addition to the formal business of the Non-Executive Director Lance Browne reason to believe that the Group will not be the Committee will pay due regard to Officer and the Chief Financial Officer for the Companys system of internal meeting, there is normally a trading does not have regular meetings with viable over a longer period, using a threecontrol and risk management and for wider remuneration trends across the to give presentations of these results update and shareholders are invited major external shareholders.
year period was chosen to give greater Group, legal requirements and best to the Companys institutional investors, ensuring the effectiveness of this system to ask questions and are also given the The Board considers it appropriate for certainty over the assumptions used.
The aim is to analysts and media in London and other opportunity to meet the Directors the Chairman to be the main conduit ensure our Remuneration Policy is key locations.
In making their assessment, the Directors system and the Committees review of informally afterwards.
to investors, rather than the Senior took account of the further information its effectiveness are reported on pages aligned to Company strategy, key business The Chief Executive Officer and the Notice of the annual general meeting Independent Non-Executive Director.
The objectives and the best interests of our included in the business activities 46 to 48.
Chief Financial Officer maintain a close together with any related documents is Chairman participates in investor meetings commentary as set out on pages 14 to 19, shareholders and stakeholders.
Further Audit Committee and auditors dialogue with institutional investors on the required to be mailed to shareholders at and makes himself available for questions, details of the Remuneration Committees as well as the Groups principal risks and Companys performance, governance, plans The Board has established an Audit least 20 working days before the meeting in person, at the time of major uncertainties and related mitigation work is contained on pages 50 to 60.
These meetings also serve and separate resolutions are proposed on Committee consisting entirely of announcements as well as upon request.
order to maintain transparency, approval approaches as set out on pages 27 to 32. to develop an ongoing understanding of the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board They assessed potential financial and for the Companys Remuneration Policy and The Audit Committee has responsibility views and any concerns of the Companys The voting in respect of all resolutions and particularly the Senior Independent the Annual Report on Remuneration will be operational aspects of various severe major shareholders.
for ensuring the integrity of financial to be put to the annual general meeting Non-Executive Director on the results of but plausible scenarios in the context sought at the annual general meeting.
information and the effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors are given regular is conducted by means of a poll vote.
his meetings and the opinions of investors.
of these principal risks and uncertainties financial controls and the internal control updates as to the views of institutional The level of proxy votes cast and the On this basis, the Board considers that the and potential combinations thereof along and risk management system.
The Chairman attends the balance for and against each resolution, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director with the likely effectiveness of available details of the Audit Committees work main presentations of the half-year and together with the level of abstentions, is able to gain full awareness of the issues mitigating actions.
and responsibilities are contained on full-year results and is also available to if any, are announced following voting and concerns of major shareholders.
Based on this assessment, the Directors pages 46 to 49. meet with shareholders on request.
Where the Board considers that Notwithstanding this policy, all Directors have a reasonable expectation that the All members of the Audit Committee are The principal communication with a significant proportion of votes have been have a standing invitation to participate Group and Company will be able to considered by the Board to be competent private shareholders is through the cast against a resolution, the actions which in meetings with investors.
continue in operation and meet all in accounting and or auditing.
Furthermore, Annual Report, the half-year results the Board intends to take to understand their liabilities as they fall due over and in compliance with the Code, the Board Insurance and the annual general meeting.
the reasons behind the vote result will the period up to 31 December 2019. regards Elmar Heggen as the Committee The Groups insurance programme is also be explained.
The Company continues to engage Principal risks member possessing recent and relevant reviewed annually and appropriate the services of Brunswick as its investor Financial and other information is made The Board is responsible for assessing financial experience.
insurance cover is obtained to protect relations advisor.
available on the Companys website: the nature and extent of the principal risks the Directors and senior management in On recommendation of the Audit www.
com it is willing to take to achieve its strategic the event of a claim being brought against Committee, it is intended that a tender objectives and also those risks that threaten any of them in their capacity as Directors process for the external audit should its business model, future performance, and Officers of the Company.
be launched during 2018 and it is solvency or liquidity.
A clearly defined To underpin the An induction process Provision to all team Policies and Control environment Operational audit and organisation structure effectiveness of controls, to educate new team members of a copy procedure manuals self-certification tools High standards of behaviour are with established it is the Group's policy members on the of the Team Member and guidelines that demanded from staff at all levels within which require responsibilities: to recruit and develop standards required Handbook which are readily accessible individual centre the Group.
The following procedures are appropriately skilled from them in their contains detailed through the Groups in place to support this: managers to confirm management and staff role, including guidance on intranet site: their adherence to of high calibre and business ethics and employee policies Group policies and integrity and with compliance, and the standards procedures: and appropriate disciplines.
regulations and of behaviour internal policies: required of staff: 43 42 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 43
