James Fisher and Sons plc Audit Committee report Introduction by Malcolm Paul, Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31December 2016.
The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal control.
I have been chairman of the Committee since 2012 and it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee fulls its responsibilities in a rigorous and effective manner.
The Committees agenda is designed, in conjunction with the Boards, to ensure that all significant areas of risk are covered and to enable it to provide timely input to Board deliberations.
In line with the Code this report seeks to provide an insight into the matters considered by the Committee during the year and therefore to provide assurance to shareholders that the control environment of the Group is being properly supervised and monitored.
I am satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted with written terms of reference, which include all matters referred to in the Code and is provided with good quality information to allow proper consideration to be given to topics under review.
I am also satisfied that meetings are scheduled to allow sufficient time for discussion and to ensure that all matters are considered fully.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on our website, were updated in January 2017 in accordance with the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, April 2016.
Of particular importance is the requirement to ensure that the Groups financial reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
We therefore review all the Groups financial reports before publication with this responsibility at the forefront of our minds and we are satisfied that they provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and performance.
I am pleased by the way the members of the Audit Committee have worked together during the year focusing their attention on reviewing the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls, as well as ensuring the integrity of the Groups public financial reporting, including where necessary alternative performance measures, in the light of ever changing legislation and changes in corporate governance.
We have considered the impact of the UKs referendum result on the Groups standing and have reviewed and endorse the Groups approach to tax transparency.
The Committee has also led a competitive tender process for the renewal of external audit services.
We are conscious of the changes that will shortly arise from the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases when these accounting standards become effective and are monitoring the Groups approach to ensure effective compliance and disclosure in the future.
The Committee operates in an open manner, has clear and concise channels of communication with the Board and, should it be necessary, I would be available to meet with investors.
Malcolm Paul Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee composition The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul and consists exclusively of four independent Non-Executive Directors whose biographical details are set out on page 27.
The Board is satisfied that Malcolm Paul, a chartered accountant, who was formerly finance director of a FTSE 250 company, has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter and, based on the members broad commercial, professional and technical experience, the Audit Committee as a whole is considered to have competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
Committee attendance is shown on page 29.
The Committee had three scheduled meetings during the year in February, August and November on dates to coincide with the financial reporting cycle.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and senior members of the finance team attend each meeting by invitation together with representatives of the auditor, including the reporting partner, and the Head of Internal Audit.
This year additional Committee meetings were held during the audit tender process.
At each scheduled meeting the Committee provides the opportunity to discuss matters privately with the auditor and the internal auditor.
In addition, the chairman of the Committee holds regular meetings with the KPMG audit reporting partner, David Bills, to discuss matters related to the Group.
Details of the Committees specic responsibilities and how it exercises those responsibilities are set out in the remainder of this report.
The Board and the members of the Committee separately review the performance of the Audit Committee each year and are satisfied that the Committee discharges its duties and responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference.
34 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Main responsibilities of the Committee The Audit Committees main duties and responsibilities are to: monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: assess the independence and objectivity of the auditor and make recommendations to the Board for the auditors appointment, re-appointment and removal: approve the auditors remuneration including non-audit fees, terms of engagement and provision of non-audit services: review the Groups internal financial controls and systems for risk management and internal control: monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: monitor the Companys policies for handling allegations from whistleblowers: and hold a broad remit to review and comment upon market communications including public announcements and analysts presentations.
Financial reporting The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the Groups financial reporting is to review and challenge where necessary, with both senior management and the auditor, the appropriateness of the Groups Half Year and Annual Report and Accounts with particular focus on: whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and properly applied: the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in material areas or where there has been discussion with or issues raised by the auditor: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
To facilitate its financial reporting responsibility the Committee received reports from the Companys auditor, KPMG, at each of the scheduled Committee meetings.
The first, in February, considered the findings of the statutory audit work, including comments on the draft Annual Report and Accounts.
The August meeting received a review by the auditor of the Half Year results and the November meeting reviewed the planning memorandum for the annual audit, including proposed scope and key risks, together with an indication of the proposed audit fee, which was subject to subsequent agreement.
Integrity of financial reporting The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Half Year and Annual Report and Accounts of the Company.
This included the review and discussion of papers prepared by management and took account of the views of the auditor.
The key areas reviewed in the 2016 financial year are set out below.
Operations in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation Due to the diverse nature of the territories in which the Group operates often with local partners, there is an inherent commercial and financial risk arising from operating in these locations.
This is particularly prominent in the Groups operations in emerging markets, due to a potentially more uncertain legislative, political and regulatory environment.
The Committee received regular updates on the operational and financial performance of the Groups business operations in these territories together with the assessment of areas where specic judgements have been necessary.
During the year, the Committee specically considered the financial impact on the Group accounts following the early termination of a major overseas contract including receiving reports from both senior management and the auditor and are satisfied that appropriate disclosure is made in the financial statements.
Goodwill valuation The Committee considered the Groups carrying value of goodwill and impairment reviews based on underlying assumptions, including where appropriate the impact of the decline in oil and gas prices, together with the achievability of long-term forecasts and the discount rates applied to forecast cash ows.
Senior management provided detailed analysis to determine the sensitivity of the outcome to changes in key assumptions and we are satisfied that the judgements made are both reasonable and appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 James Fisher and Sons plc Audit Committee report continued Revenue recognition including long-term contracts Long-term contracts often span a financial year end and as a result judgements have to be made on the stage of completion of these contracts to fairly present revenue and profit recognition.
The Group uses established and consistent accounting policies to account for long-term contracts.
The Committee received reports on a number of contracts and critically examined the recognition of revenue and profit on significant long-term projects to ensure both were recognised in the correct accounting period and that judgements made by management were reasonable.
Where appropriate, matters arising were discussed with senior management and the Committee concluded that the financial statements recognised revenue in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Acquisition accounting The level of judgement involved in determining acquisition fair values and the valuation of acquired intangible assets is a potential risk to the Group.
The Committee considered the fair value and accounting policy adjustments made to each acquisition and assessments in respect of contingent consideration provisions.
These were discussed separately with the Group Finance Director and the auditor and the Committee concluded that acquisitions had been accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above was adequately addressed by the Executive Directors and senior management, appropriately tested and reviewed by the auditor and the judgements and disclosures made in the Half Year and Annual Report and Accounts were appropriate.
Going concern The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the going concern assumption in preparing the financial statements.
This included a review of papers prepared by senior management in relation to the Groups internal budgets, forecasts of future performance, available nancing facilities and facility headroom.
Taking account of possible changes that may impact trading performance and other factors that might affect availability, we expect the Group to maintain the necessary headroom under its borrowing facilities for the forthcoming year.
We are satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
Viability statement The Committee reviewed the Companys viability statement set out on page 57 and in particular took care to understand the analysis which was prepared by management and supports the Boards view that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period assessed.
Risk management and internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of these systems and the Groups internal audit function.
We received regular reports throughout the year from the Risk Committee and we have reviewed the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and have concluded that the systems are sound and effective.
Reports on internal control failings and whistleblowing complaints are referred to the Committee for review and oversight to ensure that appropriate and timely actions are identied and completed.
In 2016 there were no material instances of internal control failure 2015: 0 and no whistleblowing reports 2015: 1.
The responsibilities and processes for risk management are described in more detail on page 20.
External audit Performance The Committee continually assesses the performance of the auditor, KPMG, from the initial planning stage when they receive and discuss the audit plan and proposed strategy, approach, objectives, significant risk areas and other areas of focus, drawing on input from the Groups senior management, until conclusion of the audit.
The Committee conducts annually a formal assessment of the auditors performance based on its own experience and that of the Groups senior management.
This process includes the use of questionnaires which focus on the quality and ability of the audit teams, the robustness of the audit process and the quality of communication and governance, including the independence of the audit rm.
The results of the review are considered by the Committee and discussed with the auditor who provides input on the preparedness of the Groups own finance teams and the conclusions are reported to and discussed by the Board.
For the 2016 audit, the Committee considered that the performance of the auditor including their interaction with the Company, senior management and the Committee was good.
The Committee was also satisfied that KPMG provided an effective audit and remain independent and objective.
36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-audit services The Committee accepts that certain non-prohibited work is best undertaken by the auditor and to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence the Committee has a long-standing policy on engagement of the auditor for non-audit services, which the Committee reviews annually and recommends to the Board for approval.
In 2016, KPMG carried out taxation services and corporate advisory work including due diligence reports and tax advice on acquisitions.
Non-audit fees paid to KPMG for this work represented 23% of the audit fee in 2016 and 19% of total fees paid.
With effect from 1January 2017, EU Audit Regulations and standards published by the FRC in June 2016 prohibit the auditor from undertaking certain non-audit services, including advising on taxation, and limit the value of permitted non-audit services to a cap not to exceed 70% of the prior year audit fee.
The auditor will not be engaged by the Company on prohibited matters and fees for permitted work must be pre-approved by the Committee.
With effect from 1January 2017 the Company has engaged new tax advisers.
Audit tender In compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 and other regulations, the Company previously announced that it planned to undertake a competitive tender for audit services given that KPMG were first appointed to audit the Company in 2008.
The tender process commenced in August 2016 with four rms invited to participate including three members of the Big Four and one mid-tier rm.
The list of rms was selected based on their experience, industry skills and knowledge, their ability to perform audit to a high standard and with knowledge of any pre-existing business relationships that might affect their independence.
Prior to submitting their tender, the rms were given access to significant data regarding the Group and met with the chairman of the Audit Committee and with senior management within the Groups finance function.
An Audit Tender Sub Committee was appointed comprising the chairman of the Audit Committee together with another Committee member, the Group Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller to consider the tenders submitted and, as a result, three rms were invited to an interview at which all Sub Committee members were present.
Following these presentations and after due consideration by the full Audit Committee two rms were recommended to the Board, with an expressed preference for the appointment of one.
The Board accepted the recommendation of the Audit Committee which was based on the submitted tender, the interview and the Committees experience of the quality of past performance and intend, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to propose the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor for the financial year beginning 1January 2017 under a new audit reporting partner, Mike Barradell.
Internal audit The Committee is responsible for reviewing the work carried out by the internal audit department which considers, reviews and reports on key commercial, financial and control risks across the Group.
The internal audit function is managed by experienced professionals assisted by senior financial managers from within the Group who undertake their work in accordance with an annual programme approved by the Committee.
The scope of each internal audit review is agreed by the Committee in consultation with the internal auditor to ensure that key areas for each business are addressed.
In 2016, 15 internal audits were undertaken of which 12 were in the UK and 3 overseas 2015: 13.
The internal audit reports were presented to the Committee for review and shared with senior managers for action, as well as being provided to the auditor for information.
The internal auditor is responsible to the Committee for ensuring that all required actions are followed up and completed in a timely manner.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is continually reviewed and a formal review is undertaken annually by the Board and the Committee.
Following the final 2016 review, the Committee recommended and the Board concluded that the Groups internal audit process was appropriate and effective.
Malcolm Paul Chairman of the Audit Committee 28February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37
