James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report Introduction from the Chairman I am pleased to present the 2016 Corporate governance report on behalf of the Board.
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance and to ensure that values and behaviours are consistent across the Group.
This report together with the Audit Committee and Directors remuneration reports are intended to give shareholders a clear and meaningful explanation of how the Board and its Committees discharge their corporate governance responsibilities and how the principles of good governance as set out in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the Code, which is the version of the Code which applies to the Company for 2016, have been applied throughout the Group.
Our statement of compliance with the Code is set out below.
A copy of the Code can be found at the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website: https: www.
I would encourage all shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting AGM on 4May 2017 as it provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Charles Rice Chairman 28February 2017 Statement of compliance The Board confirms that, without exception, the Company complied with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31December 2016.
The following disclosures provide a detailed description of how the Company has complied with the principles set out in the Code in the 2016 financial year.
1 Role of the Board The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership to the Company.
It does this by setting strategic priorities and overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long-term growth, while maintaining a balanced approach to risk within a framework of effective controls.
The Board has a schedule of matters it reserves for its own decision making such as decisions relating to: strategy and management: structure and capital: financial reporting and controls: internal controls: capital expenditure: approval of material contracts: communication with shareholders: Board membership and appointments: corporate governance matters: approval of Group policies: and approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
The schedule is reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board meets regularly, with six scheduled meetings having been held during the year.
The Directors attendance records at those meetings and Board Committee meetings held during the year are shown in the table below: Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 6432 Charles Rice 6 2 Nick Henry 6 Stuart Kilpatrick 6 Malcolm Paul 6432 Aedamar Comiskey 4332 David Moorhouse 6432 Michael Salter 6432 Board and Committees Operation of the Board All Directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and financial and risk management of the Company.
Strategy, acquisition and disposal of businesses and major capital investments are agreed between the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer and Group Finance Director prior to review and approval by the Board.
Meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chairman ensures that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters in advance of the Board meetings, including comprehensive financial and business reports covering the Groups principal activities.
The Non-Executive Directors regularly visit major business centres of the Group in order to enhance their knowledge including in relation to the services and products offered, which in turn acts to strengthen their contribution to Board debate.
In 2016, visits included JF Marine Services Limited and JF Nuclear Limited and the Non-Executive Directors also received presentations from management on key strategic plans including relating to individual businesses and markets.
During the year, the Board has considered a wide range of matters including safety, operations, corporate governance, strategy, forecasts and long-term objectives, acquisitions, nancing, taxation, risk management, internal controls, the Groups principal risks, management and succession planning and Board composition as well as shareholder announcements.
The Board has a regular programme of six meetings and a schedule which identies matters to be discussed at each meeting.
The January and July meetings are primarily focused on review of corporate governance matters.
The other quarterly meetings each have a broad based business agenda, which covers the items noted above.
Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the following Board committees: Audit Committee: Remuneration Committee: and Nominations Committee.
Each Committee has formal written terms of reference which are reviewed annually and available on the Companys website.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Committee members are Malcolm Paul, Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul.
The Audit Committee report on pages 34 to 37 describes in detail the Committees role and activities.
In 2016, the Audit Committee led a competitive tender process for the appointment of the Companys external auditor.
Further details of the audit tender process are provided in the Audit Committee report on page 37.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board.
The Committees terms of reference include: To determine and agree with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives: To review the appropriateness and relevance of the Groups remuneration policy: and To ensure that the provisions of the Code relating to remuneration are fullled.
The Chairman attends the Committees meetings by invitation and is not present when his own terms and conditions are discussed.
During the year the Committee had three scheduled meetings.
The work of the Committee including the chairmans overview is described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 52.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board.
The Committee members are Charles Rice, Malcolm Paul, Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Rice.
The Committees terms of reference include: To regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board including skills, knowledge, diversity and experience and recommend changes: Succession planning for Directors and senior executives: and Identifying and nominating for approval to the Board, candidates to ll vacancies when they arise.
The Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, working together with external advisors.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity and has agreed that a target be adopted that by 31December 2018, at least two of seven Board members be female.
The Committee had two meetings in 2016 and its work included reviewing the composition of the Board and succession planning.
Executive Committee In addition to three formal Committees, the Board has appointed an Executive Committee consisting of the Chairman and the Executive Directors, which has written terms of reference and reports to the Board.
The Board also appoints from time to time sub-committees consisting of at least two Directors in order to nalise and approve those matters that have been approved in principle by the Board.
Subject to the Companys Articles, the Executive Committee is empowered to take such actions as considered necessary relating to the affairs of the Company in the normal course of business and of a routine nature, subject to such limits as the Board in its discretion determines.
The Executive Committee reports into the Board via the Chairman.
The Executive Directors meet with the Chairman at least monthly.
The Executive Directors also meet at least monthly with the Groups central senior executive team and also meet with the managing directors of the principal businesses on at least a quarterly basis to deal with operational issues, review risks and to develop and implement strategy.
2 Division of responsibilities The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, set out in writing, clearly dened, and approved by the Board.
3 Chairman The Chairmans role is to lead the Board and ensure the Board operates effectively in all aspects.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
On his appointment in August 2012, the Board considered Charles Rice to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with the Code.
The Chief Executive Ofcers role is to have the day to day responsibility of running the Group including leadership of senior management in executing the Companys strategy and managing the operational requirements of the Groups businesses.
The Board has considered and is satisfied that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer operate effectively.
4 Non-Executive Directors The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors combine broad business and commercial experience to bring independent and objective judgement to bear and to challenge constructively the Executive Directors on issues of strategy, performance, resource and standards of conduct.
The balance between Non-Executive and Executive Directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity across the Groups business activities.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit sufficient time to allow for attendance at Board and Committee meetings and for keeping in touch with the senior management team, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Malcolm Paul, the Senior Independent Director, also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for Non-Executive Directors where necessary.
During the year, there were no unresolved concerns regarding the running of the Company.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and to ensure that Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary also advises the Directors on any important changes in legislation, regulation and best practice.
In addition, all Directors have access to independent professional advice as necessary.
1 Composition of the Board There are currently seven Directors on the Board comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Group Finance Director and four other Non-Executive Directors.
The names and biographical details of the members of the Board are set out on page 27.
More than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are Non-Executive Directors, and the Board is satisfied that all of these were independent throughout the year.
During the year, Charles Rice met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present on more than one occasion and Malcolm Paul, the Senior Independent Director, met with the other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present on more than one occasion.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of the Company and the diversity of its businesses.
The Board considers that each Director demonstrates the knowledge, ability and experience required to perform the functions of a director of the listed company and is of the calibre necessary to support and develop the Companys long-term strategy and success.
The Board further considers that no individual or small group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
2 Appointments to the Board Appointments to the Board are overseen by the Nominations Committee.
Please refer to the Nominations Committee responsibilities set out above.
3 Commitment Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further below, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
Executive Directors are encouraged to take up non-executive positions in other companies or organisations.
Nick Henry, the Chief Executive officer, is a member of the Supervisory Board of the UK Chamber of Shipping.
Appointment to such positions is subject to the approval of the Board which considers, amongst other things, the time commitment required.
4 Development On appointment, new Directors are given a detailed induction to the Groups business, together with an on-going programme of visits to the Groups major sites and meetings with senior management.
On-going training and development for Directors is available as appropriate and is reviewed annually.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
5 Information and support All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, clear and accurate information in a timely manner covering matters which are to be considered at forthcoming Board or Committee meetings.
Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent legal advice about the performance of their duties with the Company, they are entitled to do so at the Companys expense.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter requiring Board approval.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report continued B.
6 Evaluation At the end of each year, the Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees and of each individual Director against the framework of Board effectiveness produced by the FRC.
This year the Board determined that an external facilitation of the annual review of performance which was undertaken in 2015 was not necessary.
The 2016 performance evaluations were designed to assist the Board in identifying strengths and weaknesses and areas for further improving performance and required each Director to complete in confidence a detailed questionnaire relating to key aspects of Board performance and performance of the Boards principal Committees.
The review included an analysis of the Boards and Committees performance in key areas including corporate governance, structure and procedures, strategy and its effectiveness, risk management and control and communications with stakeholders.
The results of the evaluation were collated by the Company Secretary and reported to the Board via the Chairman with recommendations for further consideration and action as appropriate.
The 2016 review concluded that the Board functions well as a unit and provides a good balance of support and challenge to management.
The annual review of individual Directors performance was conducted internally.
The Chairmans performance was reviewed by the other Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The performance of the Executive Directors was reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors with the Chairman in attendance.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors reviewed the performance of each of the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that each Director continues to contribute and demonstrate commitment to the role.
7 Re-election The Companys Articles of Association require Directors to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
However, consistent with its practice in recent years the Board has decided that all Directors will stand for re-election or election at each AGM in accordance with the Code.
C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and business reporting The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
In making this assessment, the Board took into account its own knowledge of the Group, the markets in which the Group operates, its strategy and performance in the year, a detailed review of the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and other periodic financial statements and announcements, together with the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Key considerations included ensuring that there was consistency between the accounts and the narrative provided in the front half of the Annual Report, and there was an appropriate balance between the reporting of weaknesses, difficulties and challenges, as well as successes, in an open and honest manner.
The going concern assessment and the viability statement are set out on pages 56 and 57: and the Strategic report on pages 6 and 7 sets out an explanation of the Companys business model and the strategy for delivering the Companys objectives.
C. 2 Risk management and internal controls The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for ensuring that the Company maintains sound risk management and internal control procedures.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee monitors the Groups risk management and internal control process and reviews its effectiveness on an on-going basis.
This is part of an established process, in accordance with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in September 2014, for the identication, evaluation and management of the significant risks facing the Group, which operates and is reviewed continually throughout the year.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to provide the Board with reasonable assurance as to the effective and efficient operation of the Group and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
However, there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Details of those principal risks and the Groups approach to mitigating them are set out in the Strategic report on pages 20 to 22.
32 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements As part of its internal control procedures, the Group has a whistleblowing policy which encourages employees to report in good faith any genuine suspicions of fraud, bribery or malpractice in order to identify any problems within the Group at an early stage.
The policy is designed to ensure that any employee who raises a genuine concern is protected.
Any concerns can be raised in the first instance with the Company Secretary in confidence.
The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards in all of the Groups business dealings and condemns corruption in all its forms.
The Group has a formal anti-bribery and corruption statement and policy and does not tolerate or condone corruption or bribery in any of the Groups business dealings.
This policy has been implemented throughout the Group and is supported by a group-wide training and awareness programme and regular compliance reviews.
This policy is reviewed annually by the Board and is available on the Groups website.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditor For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and the Companys auditor, please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 34 to 37.
D. Remuneration For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to the level and components of remuneration and remuneration procedure, please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 52.
E. Relations with shareholders The Company communicates with shareholders through the Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Report, preliminary announcements, interim management statements, investor days and the Company website.
The Board takes the opportunity at the AGM to meet and communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their involvement.
In addition, the Company invites regular direct communication with its shareholders as part of the Companys investor relations programme.
Non-attributable feedback on the investor presentations given by the Company to shareholders is circulated to the Board.
The Chairman periodically consults with major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of any issues and concerns and the Senior Independent Director is available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
In addition if at any meetings of the Executive Directors with investors a governance or strategy matter is raised, it is relayed back to the Board.
The Board is therefore of the view that appropriate steps have been taken to ensure all Board members, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of the major shareholders.
