OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT We recognise the importance of effective corporate governance throughout the Group and of having robust governance structures and processes in all our businesses.
Geoffrey Howe in all our businesses.
With effect from 28 February INTRODUCTION FROM an Operations Forum was established, 2017, Mark Drummond Brady has THE CHAIRMAN with senior level representation from assumed the roles of CEO of JLT Latin all the Group's businesses, to lead the America and Chairman of JLT Canada, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased introduction of consistent and improved in addition to his current role as Deputy to introduce the Corporate Governance processes and systems across the Group CEO.
Report for the year ended 31 December Group and share thinking on ways 2016.
The Board continues to CODE COMPLIANCE of working.
believe that how JLT does business is as important as what it does, and We are committed to the principles BOARD COMPOSITION recognises the need for a strong established in the Code issued by the corporate governance framework During 2016 there were a number of Financial Reporting Council FRC.
We and supporting processes across the Board changes.
James Twining stepped are pleased to report that throughout Group.
Good governance, with tone down from the Board with effect from 26 2016 the Company complied with set from the top, is a key factor April 2016.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown joined the main and supporting principles of in delivering sustainable business the Board as a Non-Executive Director the Code, with the exception of B.
1.2 performance and creating value for on 1 May 2016 and succeeded Richard relating to the composition of the Board, the Group's stakeholders.
Harvey as Chairman of the Remuneration where the Company was non-compliant Committee on 1 November 2016.
Bruce for the first four months of the year.
An In the following pages you will find details will unfortunately be stepping down from overview of the Companys compliance of how JLT approaches governance, the Board at the end of June, following with the Code and an explanation for including the operation of the Board his appointment as Chairman of Lloyd's the area where the Company does not and its Committees and an explanation of London.
Lord Leach, a Non-Executive comply can be found in the Directors of how we comply with the 2014 UK Director for many years, sadly died on Report on pages 92 to 94.
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Adam Keswick joined You will also find a summary of the key I should like to thank the Directors of the the Board as a Jardine Mathesonoutputs from the latest review of the Board for their support during the year.
appointed Non-Executive Director on Board's effectiveness, outputs of which 1 September 2016.
Richard Harvey were very positive.
This section also retired from the Board with effect from 31 includes reports from each of the December 2016 and Jonathan Dawson Board's Committees.
succeeded him as the Companys Senior Independent Director on the same date.
We recognise the importance of effective I should like to record the Board's thanks corporate governance throughout Geoffrey Howe to Richard Harvey and James Twining the Group and of having robust Chairman for their respective contributions to the governance structures and processes 28 February 2017 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' PROFILES GEOFFREY HOWE DOMINIC BURKE MARK DRUMMOND BRADY Group Chairman Group Chief Executive Deputy Group CEO Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson Mark Drummond Brady has been with JLT Geoffrey Howe was appointed a in 2000, when the Burke Ford Group of since 1987 and has held a number of senior Non-Executive Director in January 2002 Companies, of which he was chief executive posts in the Group.
and became Joint Deputy Chairman in and co-founder, became part of JLT.
He was the Groups International Chairman of He was appointed Chief Executive of the UK Risk & Insurance until 1 September 2014, when He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 & Ireland Insurance Broking business and he relinquished that role and became the Deputy and became Chairman of the Nominations the Groups Employee Benefits businesses in Group CEO.
2000 and was appointed a Director and Chief Mark joined the Board in March 2011 and is Geoffrey is senior independent director Operating Officer of JLT in January 2005. a member of the Group Executive Committee.
of Close Brothers Group plc.
He was formerly Dominic was appointed Group Chief Executive chairman of Nationwide Building Society, chairman With effect from 28 February 2017 Mark in December 2005.
He was appointed a nonof Railtrack Group plc, a director of Investec plc, becomes CEO of JLT Latin America and executive director and deputy chairman of general counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Chairman of JLT Canada, in addition to his Newbury Racecourse plc in November 2010 and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
current role as Deputy Group CEO.
and became its chairman in June 2011.
CHARLES ROZES BRUCE CARNEGIE-BROWN ANNETTE COURT Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Charles Rozes joined JLT in September 2015 as Bruce Carnegie-Brown was appointed Annette Court was appointed a Group Finance Director.
He is a member of the a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2016.
He Non-Executive Director in August 2012.
She is Group Executive Committee.
He is also a Director is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration of JLT India and a member of its Audit & Risk member of the Audit & Risk and Nominations and Nominations Committees.
He joined the Group from Barclays Committees.
Annette has extensive insurance industry where, since 2011, he had held the role of Global experience.
Between 2007 and 2010 she He is first vice chairman and lead independent Head of Investor Relations.
was chief executive officer for Europe director of Banco Santander SA, where he has Prior to that, Charles was chief financial officer General Insurance for Zurich Financial Services been a non-executive director since 2015.
He has of Barclays UK Retail and Business Banking.
and a member of the group executive committee.
also been a non-executive director of Santander He has also held senior management roles at She is a former chief executive officer of RBS UK plc since 2012.
Bank of America and IBM, and as a Partner of Insurance, the insurance division of RBS Group Bruce has been chairman of Moneysupermarket.
which owned the Direct Line and Churchill brands.
com Group plc since 2014, having been a In the role she was also a member of the RBS non-executive director there since 2010.
He was group executive management committee.
previously chairman of Aon UK Ltd from 2012 to Annette is a non-executive director of 2015: senior independent director of Catlin Group Admiral Group plc and Foxtons Group plc Ltd from 2010 to 2014: and a non-executive and has previously served as a member of director of Close Brothers Group plc from 2006 to the board of the ABI.
2014 and senior independent director from 2008 to 2014.
Previously Bruce was managing partner of 3i Group plcs Quoted Private Equity business and CEO of Marshs UK and European businesses, prior to which he spent twenty years in a variety of roles at JP Morgan and Bank of America.
56 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION JONATHAN DAWSON ADAM KESWICK Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jonathan Dawson was appointed a Adam Keswick was appointed Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director in August 2012. on 1 September 2016.
He is a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He is a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees and was appointed Adam is a director of the Jardine Matheson Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on Group companies Dairy Farm International 5 March 2013.
Jonathan took over from Holdings Limited, HongKong Land Holdings Richard Harvey as Senior Independent Limited, Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, Director with effect from 31 December 2016.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited and Mandarin He is a non-executive director of National Grid plc Oriental International Limited.
He is chairman and chairman of Penfida Limited.
of Jardine Schindler Holdings Limited and of Matheson & Co. Limited based in London, having Jonathan's career experience includes eight previously held a number of senior management years in the UK Ministry of Defence and over 20 positions in the Jardine Matheson Group in Asia years in investment banking with Lazard.
In recent since joining it in 2001.
Adam is a director of years he has served as the senior independent Ferrari N. V. a Supervisory Board member of non-executive director of Next plc and as a nonRothschild & Co and a Council member of the executive director of Galliford Try plc, National China Entrepreneurs Forum.
Australia Group Europe Ltd and Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited.
LORD SASSOON, KT NICHOLAS WALSH Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Lord Sassoon joined the Board as a Nicholas Walsh joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April 2013.
He is Non-Executive Director in October 2014. a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration He is a member of the Audit & Risk, and Nominations Committees.
He began his career at KPMG, before joining Nicholas has held a variety of underwriting, Warburg later UBS Warburg in 1985.
From 2002 distribution and senior management roles in to 2006 he was in the United Kingdom Treasury the insurance industry, with a career of 42 as a civil servant, where he had responsibility for years with American International Group, Inc. financial services and enterprise policy.
His most recent roles were vice chairman this, he chaired the Financial Action Task Force: AIG Property & Casualty Inc. chairman of AIG and conducted a review of the UKs system of Europe Limited and AIG Asia Pacific Insurance financial regulation.
Prior to this he was president and CEO of American International Underwriters.
From 2010 to 2013 Lord Sassoon was the First Commercial Secretary to the Treasury and Nicholas is an advisor to Norton Rose Fulbright acted as the Governments front bench treasury LLP.
spokesman in the House of Lords.
He is a director of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited and other Jardine Matheson Group companies, having joined the Jardine Matheson Group in January 2013.
He is also chairman of the China-Britain Business Council, a Trustee of the British Museum and is a member of the Global Advisory Board of Mitsubishi Nominations Committee UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Remuneration Committee Audit & Risk Committee Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND Group, development of the Group's strategic direction for GROUP COMMITTEES consideration and approval by the Board and implementation of the agreed strategy to the Group Chief Executive, Dominic The work of the Board is supported by the Committees Burke.
The Group Executive Committee operates to support Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
the Group Chief Executive in the running of the Group.
Further Terms of reference for each of the Committees can be found details of the composition of the Group Executive Committee on jlt.
com and reports from each of the Committees can be can be found on page 27. found on pages 63 to 91.
The Committees meet separately and regularly throughout the year.
In addition, the Group has a Disclosure Committee which oversees the Companys compliance with the Groups disclosure obligations.
The Disclosure Committee is not a Committee of the Board, but reports to the Board or to the Group Audit & Risk Committee as appropriate.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Rozes, Group Finance Director.
STRUCTURE AT A GLANCE The structure below sets out the composition of the Board and its committees: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT Group Board Geoffrey Howe Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Adam Keswick Deputy Chairman Dominic Burke Group Chief Executive Bruce Carnegie-Brown Mark Drummond Brady Deputy Group CEO Annette Court Charles Rozes Group Finance Director Jonathan Dawson Senior Independent Director Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Jonathan Dawson Chairman Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Geoffrey Howe Chairman Bruce Carnegie-Brown Annette Court Bruce Carnegie-Brown Annette Court Jonathan Dawson Annette Court Lord Sassoon Adam Keswick Jonathan Dawson Nicholas Walsh Lord Sassoon Adam Keswick Nicholas Walsh Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh BOARD CHANGES LEADERSHIP During 2016 there were a number of Board changes.
James Twining stepped down from the Board with effect from 26 April DIRECTORS 2016.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown joined the Board as a NonExecutive Director on 1 May 2016 and succeeded Richard The Board of Directors, as at the date of this Report, Harvey as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 are profiled on pages 56 to 57.
Lord Leach, a Non-Executive Director for being the latest date prior to publication of this Report, the many years, sadly died on 12 June 2016.
Adam Keswick joined Board comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors, the Board as a Jardine Matheson-appointed Non-Executive four Independent Non-Executive Directors and two NonDirector on 1 September 2016.
Richard Harvey retired from Independent Non-Executive Directors.
the Board with effect from 31 December 2016 and Jonathan Dawson succeeded him as the Companys Senior Independent Director with effect from the same date.
58 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE ROLE OF THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board is responsible for approving and overseeing the Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element implementation of the Companys strategy: reviewing the to the Board, and offer constructive challenge to, and support performance of management: ensuring that appropriate for, management.
They bring independent judgement and a systems of internal controls and risk management are in place: breadth of skills and experience to the Board and are key to and ensuring that the right resources are in place throughout the effective functioning of the Board's Committees.
the Group to achieve the delivery of long-term value to shareholders and the long-term success of the Company.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Other matters reserved for decision by the Board include The Senior Independent Director, Jonathan Dawson, acts as material acquisitions and disposals: approval of financial results a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for announcements: approval of the Annual Report and shareholder other Directors.
He is also available as an additional point of circulars: approval of share and other capitalisation issues: contact for shareholders to discuss matters of concern which and approval of dividend recommendations.
would not be appropriate through normal communication During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide channels with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group range of matters, including: Finance Director.
No such matters of concern were raised by shareholders during the year or by 10 February 2017, being Strategy: the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Report.
The The performance of key businesses and functions Senior Independent Director also leads the Chairman's annual in the Group: performance evaluation.
Budgets and long-term plans for the Group: Financial statements and announcements: GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Cash-flow, financing and dividends: The Group Company Secretary, Jonathan Lloyd, acts as Growth and development: Secretary to the Board and all of its Committees.
He supports Risk management, internal controls and compliance: the smooth operation of each of the bodies by working with Reports from brokers and analysts: and the Chairman and Chairmen of the Committees.
Additionally, People matters, including succession planning and diversity.
the Group Company Secretary advises the Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters and supports the Chairman in ensuring compliance with relevant legal and CHAIRMAN regulatory requirements.
The Chairman, Geoffrey Howe, is responsible for leadership of the Board and providing direction and focus, while making INDEPENDENT ADVICE sure that there is a clear structure for the effective operation of the Board and its Committees.
He sets the agenda for Board A process is in place to enable any Director to take independent discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and professional advice at the Companys expense, relating to the to support a sound decision-making process.
The Chairman is performance of any aspect of their duties.
This is facilitated by also responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, the Group Company Secretary.
timely and clear information and that effective communication takes place with the Company's shareholders.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Chairman works closely with the Group Chief Executive to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board Under the Companies Act 2006 all Directors have a duty to are effectively implemented.
He also provides support and avoid conflicts of interest and disclose any interests and outside advice to the Group Chief Executive, while respecting his appointments.
The Board has formal processes in place for executive responsibility for managing the Group.
The division the declaration and management of conflicts of interest and of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group the Group Company Secretary maintains a Conflicts of Interest Chief Executive has been clearly defined and has been Register.
On appointment, new Directors are advised of the agreed by the Board.
process for dealing with conflicts of interest and Directors interests are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
JLTs relationship with Jardine Matheson is disclosed on page 60.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement on 23 October 2014, as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a, and in In accordance with the requirements of the Code, newly March 2016 an amended Relationship Agreement was signed.
appointed directors and all existing directors will be submitting The Agreement is intended to ensure that Jardine Matheson themselves for election and re-election, respectively, at the Holdings, as the Groups controlling shareholder, complies with 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Board is able to recommend certain independence provisions.
It contains undertakings that the election or re-election, as the case may be, of each member transactions and arrangements with Jardine Matheson Holdings of the Board based upon their skills, experience and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms-length and contribution to the Board and its Committees.
and on normal commercial terms: that neither Jardine Matheson Holdings nor its associates will take any action which could prevent the Company from complying with its Listing Rules RELATIONSHIP WITH JARDINE MATHESON GROUP obligations: and that neither Jardine Matheson Holdings nor its The Group continued to have a number of arms-length trading associates will propose any shareholder resolution intended to links with the Jardine Matheson group of companies during circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
the financial year, which are set out in note 32 on page 162.
The Board confirms that, since the date of entry into At 10 February 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the Agreement, the Group has complied with its provisions the date of this Report, Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited and that, so far as the Company is aware, Jardine Matheson Jardine Matheson Holdings had an interest in 40.16% of the Holdings and its associates have also complied with the Companys issued share capital.
This interest is held through independence and procurement obligations set out in JMH investments Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Agreement.
The updated Agreement signed last year formalised the processes the Company has in place to control the provision of information to Jardine Matheson and clarified when and how information may be requested by Jardine Matheson from JLT.
BOARD EXPERIENCE AND BALANCE Following review, the Board remains satisfied that it continues to have the appropriate balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge to run the business effectively and to deliver long-term shareholder value.
The chart below provides an overview of the experience of each of the Directors: Length of service as Board Other member as public Insurance Position as at at 31 Dec board Operational industry International Legal M&A Finance Government Name 31 Dec 2016 2016 Independent experience experience experience experience experience Experience Experience Non-Executive Geoffrey Howe 15 years No Chairman Bruce Non-Executive 8 months Yes Director Carnegie-Brown Non-Executive 4 years, 5 Annette Court Yes Director months Jonathan Senior Independent 4 years, 5 Yes Director months Dawson Deputy Chairman Adam Keswick Non-Executive 4 months No Director Non-Executive 3 years, 8 Lord Sassoon No Director months Non-Executive 2 years, 3 Nicholas Walsh Yes Director months Group Chief Dominic Burke 12 years N A Executive Mark Drummond Deputy Group 5 years, 10 N A CEO months Brady Group Finance 1 year, Charles Rozes N A Director 4 months Key: Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit & Risk Committee 60 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Board held 7 scheduled meetings during the year and BOARD PERFORMANCE REVIEW attendance is set out in the following table: The Boards performance is reviewed annually.
Following internally-led reviews of the Board and Committees in 2014 Eligible to attend Attended Geoffrey Howe 7 7 7 and 2015, an  review was conducted in Annette Court 7 7 7 2016.
The results of the review were generally very positive, Jonathan Dawson 7 7 7 and the Board was seen as functioning well and covering the Richard Harvey 7 7 7 right ground.
Discussions were felt to be of a high quality and Nicholas Walsh 7 7 7 there was felt to be open and constructive debate pitched at Lord Sassoon 7 7 7 the right level, with effective challenge where appropriate.
The 1 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 4 3 4 Board is seen as being particularly effective at management of Adam Keswick 2 2 2 performance and risk, as well as investment appraisal, and has 2 Lord Leach 3 2 3 a clear approach to strategy.
Dominic Burke 7 7 7 Mark Drummond Brady 7 7 7 A number of recommendations were made as to how to Charles Rozes 7 7 7 increase the effectiveness of the Board further, including James Twining 2 2 2 reviewing the breadth of skills and experience on the Board in 1.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown was unable to attend the Board meeting held on the context of its future needs: providing more qualitative data 30 June 2016 due to a prior commitment notified before he joined the Board.
to the Board as part of regular management reporting: adopting 2.
Lord Leach was unable to attend the Board meeting held on 26 April 2016 improvements to Board processes: extending reporting to the due to ill-health.
Board on feedback from stakeholders: and building on the Board's approach to reviewing strategy.
The Directors attendance at Committee meetings is set out in the respective Committee reports on pages 63 to 91.
During the year Board members held a strategy day which BOARD DIVERSITY the Board used to consider key market pressures, review the impact of strategic decisions and to focus on the strategy for The Board supports the Code's recommendation that diversity the following years.
and gender should be considered when making Director appointments.
The Board aims to ensure that it has the right balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND TRAINING to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board's policy is to select the best candidate A tailored induction programme was agreed for the new irrespective of background.
The Company has taken, and Directors who joined the Board during the year, Bruce continues to take, steps to promote diversity and inclusion, Carnegie-Brown and Adam Keswick.
The programme was including gender diversity, both at senior management level facilitated by the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary.
During the year the business has made The programme is designed to provide comprehensive significant steps forward with its diversity programme.
Further information about the JLT Group of companies, its insurance information about this is available on pages 71 to 72 in the and reinsurance broking and its Employee Benefit business.
Meetings were arranged with the Executive Directors, the members of the GEC and other function heads, including the Group Head of Internal Audit: the Group Head of Risk: the SUCCESSION PLANNING Group Treasurer: the Group Human Resources Director: and Succession planning and talent development has been an the Group Company Secretary.
important agenda item for the Board in the year, as described Members of the Board are provided with regular training in in greater detail in the Nominations Committee Report on page order to keep them abreast of industry and legal and regulatory 72.
Substantial progress has been made during the year in developments, facilitated by professional advisers where promoting talent across the Group and the Board is confident appropriate.
During the year the Board was provided with a that there is a strong senior management succession pipeline.
detailed briefing on the new Market Abuse Regulation and its implications both for them as individuals and for the Group as a whole.
To assist the Directors in fulfilling their duties, procedures are in place to provide them with timely information.
Directors are encouraged to visit different parts of the business on a regular basis in order to enhance their understanding of those businesses and the key issues they face.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems Our Board welcomes the opportunity to openly engage with of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
shareholders as it recognises the importance of a continuing The implementation and maintenance of the risk management effective dialogue, whether with major institutional investors, and internal control systems are the responsibility of the private shareholders or employee shareholders.
The Chief Executive Directors and senior management.
Executive Officer and Group Finance Director are closely involved with investor relations, together with the Group Head In accounting to shareholders, the Board is responsible for of Investor Relations.
The Board is regularly updated on presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of shareholder views.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors the Groups position and prospects.
The Boards responsibility are available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss covers the Annual Report and Accounts and half-year results.
any matters relating to the Company.
A statement relating to this assessment is covered in the Audit & Risk Committee Report on page 70.
Investors are consulted and informed about important business activity and decisions on an ongoing basis.
We keep our The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent investors up to date with regulatory news releases via the RNS of any significant risks the Group is willing to take in order to service and through press releases.
Copies of past regulatory achieve its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk news releases can be found on the Groups website jlt.
management and internal control systems to ensure that an appropriate culture is embedded throughout the Group.
Owing to the limitation inherent in any system of internal CULTURE AND ETHICS control, this system provides robust, but not absolute, The Board recognises the importance of demonstrating its full assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups support for ethical conduct and leadership.
During the year, risk management and internal control systems comprise the Board considered the subject of culture and ethics in the Group policies, procedures and practices covering a range of context of JLT's style, tone and organisation.
The Board has areas including the appropriate authorisation and approval of a strong focus on ensuring that there is a continuing open transactions, the application of financial reporting standards and and straightforward culture of integrity and honesty across the review of financial performance and significant judgements.
The Board monitors the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control carefully throughout the year and carries out an annual review covering their adequacy and effectiveness.
The Board has delegated part of this responsibility to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The role and work of the Audit & Risk Committee in this regard and the role of the Groups Internal Audit function are described in the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 63 to 70.
62 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016
