OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee plays a crucial role in providing comfort to the Board on the integrity of the Groups processes and procedures relating to internal control, risk management and financial reporting.
Jonathan Dawson The Committee also supports the Finally, there have been a couple of INTRODUCTION FROM Board in its assessment of whether the changes to the composition of the THE COMMITTEE Annual Report and Financial Statements Committee during the year.
Bruce CHAIRMAN are fair, balanced and understandable Carnegie-Brown joined the Committee and provide sufficient information to on 1 May 2016, bringing broad skills and I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk allow an assessment of the Group.
experience, including relevant industry Committee Report for the year ended 31 The Committee considers in detail the experience.
Unfortunately Bruce will be December 2016. processes undertaken by management stepping down from the Board in June in order to meet the requirement on the 2017, following his appointment as The Committee plays a crucial role in Company to include a long-term viability Chairman of Lloyd's of London.
Richard providing comfort to the Board on the statement in the Annual Report and Harvey retired on 31 December 2016 integrity of the Group's processes and Financial Statements.
and the Committee thanks him for his procedures relating to internal control, valuable and insightful contributions over risk management and financial reporting.
As part of my role as Chairman of the his years of service to the Committee.
Committee I have met with the external This report highlights the extensive work auditors,  LLP carried out by the Committee during PwC, as well as Group Internal Audit, 2016, including its continued focus on without management being present.
the risks and controls in key areas of the Groups businesses.
The Committees The Committee remains focused on work has reflected the further expansion Jonathan Dawson ensuring that all relevant laws and of the Groups geographical footprint in Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee regulations are complied with and that areas including the United States US 28 February 2017 the business operates within the right and the Middle East and Africa MEA : control framework.
external challenges affecting the Groups key risk exposures: and internal changes in business organisation, structure and leadership.
The Committee has also carried out a number of in-depth reviews during the year, in areas including pensions, cyber risk, Employee Benefits, Latin America, Asia, US Specialty and JLT Re.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION, SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year, as in previous years.
The Committees terms of reference, Committee Members which can be accessed on the Companys website, provide for Jonathan Dawson Chairman additional ad hoc meetings to be held as and when necessary.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown joined 1 May 2016 The table below shows the Committee members during the Annette Court year and their attendance at meetings: Richard Harvey retired 31 December 2016 Lord Sassoon Committee members Eligible to attend Attended Nicholas Walsh Jonathan Dawson 6 6 6 The members of the Audit Committee who served during Bruce Carnegie-Brown 3 3 3 the year are listed in the table above.
Annette Court 6 6 6 Richard Harvey 6 6 6 The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code requires Lord Sassoon 6 6 6 the Board to establish an audit committee of at least three Nicholas Walsh 6 6 6 independent, Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee currently Meetings were also held with Group Internal Audit and the comprises five Non-Executive Directors, of which four are external auditors without management being present.
The Committee satisfies the requirements of the Code, with the exception of having one member, Lord Sassoon, who is not an independent Non-Executive Director.
SUBSIDIARY ARCS Jonathan Dawson has been Chairman of the Committee since JLT operates Entity ARCs as part of its global governance March 2013 and has over 30 years experience in financial structure across the Groups business units.
The role of each services.
Lord Sassoon qualified as a Chartered Accountant ARC is to assist the relevant business in managing and has many years of experience in investment banking and its governance and controls effectively.
senior finance roles in government.
Both Annette Court and Nicholas Walsh have many years of experience in senior roles Entity ARCs focus on the oversight of significant risk, audit in the insurance industry.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown has had a and internal control matters affecting their business, together long career in financial services and insurance.
Full biographies with their regulatory responsibilities.
of each of the members of the Committee are set out on pages Each Entity ARC is chaired by a Non-Executive Director.
There is formal reporting to the Group ARC as well as a regular The Board considers that the members of the Committee, forum for Group and Entity ARC chairs to meet during the year both individually and collectively, possess the necessary range and discuss topical issues and matters of common interest.
of skills and experience to enable it to properly discharge its During 2016 a seminar was held for NEDs of regulated responsibilities.
Details of the Committee members relevant subsidiaries both in the UK and internationally, which was also experience can be found on page 60. attended by members of the Group ARC.
The seminar included In addition to the Committee members, a number of other a presentation by an external speaker on cyber risk and its people attend meetings by invitation.
The list of the additional implications for the Group.
There was also a presentation by the participants is set out in the following table: Groups home regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, which emphasised the positive progress the Group had made in Meeting Participants developing its compliance and governance approach in the past Group Company Secretary few years.
The Group Chairman provided an update on group Group Chairman strategy and there were updates on the work of Group Internal Group Chief Executive Audit and Group Risk & Compliance.
There was also discussion Deputy Group CEO of regional risks and common areas of interest across the Group Finance Director Group, including emerging risks.
Group Head of Internal Audit Group Head of Risk Group Head of Enterprise Risk Management Group General Counsel Chief Executive Officer, Employee Benefits External Auditors 64 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function: COMMITTEE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES the effectiveness of the external audit process, The role of the Committee is to provide oversight and advice taking into consideration relevant professional and to the Board on matters of financial reporting, financial regulatory requirements: controls and risk management, together with the assessment the external auditors independence and objectivity, and reporting of key risks, whilst maintaining an appropriate together with the policy on the engagement of the external relationship with the Companys external auditor.
The business auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account of the Committee is closely linked to the Groups internal relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit calendar of events and financial audit programme.
The services by the external auditors: and Committee works independently of management and liaises thematic and business risk reviews.
Cross-membership between each of the Committees ensures that members have a better understanding of the work of each Committee and that communication is more efficient.
The responsibilities of the Committee, as detailed in the Terms of Reference, include the monitoring and review in the ordinary course of business of: the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: the Groups risk management framework, risk appetite and risk strategy to ensure that these are appropriate to the activities of the Group: the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management: COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES The table below summarises the main activities carried out by the Committee during 2016.
More detail on its activities is included below: January February April July October November Financials Review of Draft Preliminary Statement 2015 Review of Draft Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Draft of Audit & Risk Committee Report External Audit PwC Report Consideration of the Audit Plan Audit Fees Auditor Independence Other Issues Internal Audit Report Annual Review of Systems of Internal Control Risk Management and Compliance Review of Business Units Committee Evaluation Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In order to satisfy its responsibilities, the Committee in Key business areas and topics reviewed included: the ordinary course of business reviewed a wide range JLT pension scheme Asia of matters, including: UK Employee Benefits US Specialty Latin America JLT Re the drafting of the interim report, preliminary announcement and relevant sections of the Annual Report and Financial The Committee also considered the following thematic topics Statements before their submission to the Board: during the year: reports from the Group Finance Director, including a review of the increasing challenges associated with updates on currency exposures, the treatment of IT security and in particular cyber risk: exceptional items, market counterparty security and a review of the global sanctions regimes and their the Group insurance programme: application across the Group: reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on areas the introduction of a consistent limitation of liability where control weaknesses had been identified, together programme across the Group, commensurate with the with the mitigation remediation plans of management, the type and nature of services that each business offers: activities within the function and resourcing matters: a review of the Groups approach to its three lines of reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit in respect defence governance framework: of the overall control environment: a review of financial accounting developments: reports from the Group Head of Risk, including updates on dealings with the regulators in the UK and ongoing review of the key risks and themes of Brexit: in other jurisdictions: the development and implications of the new Senior reports from the Companys external auditors, including Managers Regime: any matters relating to reports on the management of a range of matters in relation to the regulatory environment, professional indemnity risk exposure and the extent of including the forthcoming General Data Protection any litigation provisions held: Regulation, MiFID II, FCA thematic reviews, FATCA etc: a review of Groups tax strategy, considered in the context a risk scenario analysis which underpins the viability of the Companys disclosure approach: and statement for the report and accounts: the effectiveness of the Committee.
a semi-annual review of compliance monitoring reviews: In addition to its regular agenda of matters, the Committee Members of the Committee also visited a number of the also considered key and emerging risks in a number of business Groups operations around the world during the year, areas or Group support functions, which were supported by where they met with senior management and in several Risk Review presentations delivered by senior management cases attended local ARC and board meetings.
and, in some cases, the Entity ARC chair of the relevant business area.
SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL STATEMENT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE The Committee considered the following significant issues in the year, taking account of the views of the Companys external auditors.
The issues and how they were addressed by the Committee are detailed below: Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee The Committee reviewed managements report proposing a revision to the calculation of EPS, which was reviewed following changes made in 2014 and 2015 to the terms of certain staff awards.
Management described the accounting challenges faced by Earnings per the complex nature of the awards and the impact of changing the terms of the schemes.
PwC confirmed that they had reviewed Share EPS the report in line with IFRS and tested the revised calculation.
The Committee agreed the treatment and that the prior year comparatives in the Group accounts should be restated to aid comparison.
The Committee reviewed managements report on the accounting for the Employee Share Trust.
As part of the transition to new UK GAAP for 2015, management reviewed the accounting for the Trust in the subsidiaries, and as a result of this concluded that Employee the ultimate entity responsible for the Trust is JLT Group plc.
As a result the retained earnings of the parent company, JLT Group Share Trust plc, will be restated to treat the shares held by the trust as treasury shares.
PwC confirmed that they had reviewed managements assessment and the conclusions reached.
The Committee agreed the accounting treatment and that the standalone accounts of JLT Group plc should be restated to reflect this change in accounting treatment.
66 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee The Committee discussed the maintenance of complete and accurate pension scheme data on which the pension liability assumptions are based and noted that no exceptions had been found from testing.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the methodology used by management including the key assumptions used to value the pension liabilities.
The key assumptions include the appropriateness of the discount rate used for the UK scheme by reference to the iBoxx AA Pension 15 corporate bond index: the adjustment made by management to match the duration of the liabilities and compared this to Liability assumptions adopted by other schemes with a similar duration: the rates used by management for each of these elements to Valuation the Bank of England inflation curve: and the appropriateness of the base tables selected for use by management by reference to the mortality experience analysis, completed by the UK Pension Scheme Trustees as part of the 2014 funding valuation.
The Committee concluded that the key assumptions made were reasonable and that the overall pension deficit is appropriately calculated.
The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
This included the results of managements impairment assessment, including an assessment of the appropriateness of the Intangibles methodology used to perform this and the substantive testing done by PwC of all inputs into the valuation such as agreeing to Impairment approved budgets and checking historical performance against the budget.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of Assessment the key assumptions within managements valuation, in particular the terminal growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and the weighted average cost of capital WACC by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and comparable organisations and the Committee concluded that they are appropriate.
The Committee members received and reviewed errors and omissions and other litigation reports addressing key disputes, and discussed with management the key judgements made, including relevant legal advice that may have been received.
Litigation The Committee members also discussed litigation provisions with PwC, and received reports from GIA and Group Risk and Provisions Compliance on quality controls designed to minimise the incidence of errors and omissions.
As a result, it was determined that the overall provision is appropriate, but it was recognised that due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation the final results could differ.
The Committee believes that GIA is effective.
An external REPORTING TO THE BOARD review took place in 2016, in accordance with Chartered The Committee Chairman provides regular updates Institute of Internal Auditors' standards and the Committees to the Board on the key issues discussed at the terms of reference.
This confirmed the functions effectiveness, Committees meetings.
and its positive contribution to improving the Groups control environment.
AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW During 2016, the Committee reviewed, evaluated and monitored: An internal review of the Committees effectiveness was carried the independence of the GIA function: out in respect of 2016.
Each member and regular attendees of the Committee was asked to complete a questionnaire and the the annual GIA plan, and other audit activities undertaken feedback was discussed by the Committee.
The results of the by the function: review were generally very positive, with the Committee seen reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the results as well-chaired and covering the right ground.
Discussions are of audit work performed, and the effectiveness of the of a high quality and there is open and constructive debate, Groups systems of internal control: with effective challenge where appropriate.
Some opportunities co-ordination between the internal and external auditors, were identified to make Committee papers more concise and other control functions within the Group, and with focused.
There was seen to be more work to do on providing external regulators: professional training to the Committee.
managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of GIA, and the monitoring of follow GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT up actions relating to these: the adequacy of the resources of the GIA function, The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to including plans for managing that resource to meet the the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function GIA.
demands of the business: and There were no changes to the terms of reference for the the overall effectiveness of the Group Head of Internal function, or the holder of the Group Head of Internal Audit Audit and the GIA function in promoting and influencing position, during the period.
improvements in the Groups internal control environment.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group has a policy relating to non-audit fees which requires EXTERNAL AUDITORS all non-audit-related work to be pre-advised to the Group The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the Finance function.
Work with a fee value of 10,000 or less is appointment of the external auditors, PwC, and for overseeing required to be approved by the regional Finance Director.
During the year, the Committee: Work with a fee exceeding 10,000 is also required to be approved by the Group Finance function.
agreed PwCs remuneration for both audit and non-audit services, including satisfying itself that the level of audit The following table illustrates the level of audit and non-audit fee was appropriate to enable an adequate audit to be fees paid to PwC in 2016 compared to 2015: carried out: approved the external audit plan and ensured that it 2016 2015 000 000 was consistent with the scope of the audit engagement: Audit 2,649 2,653 approved the terms of engagement, including the Non-audit 755 742 engagement letter issued at the start of each audit, Total 3,404 3,395 and the scope of the audit: Total spend on non-audit services as 22% 22% % of the total fees paid to PwC assessed PwCs independence, including in relation to non-audit services provided: reviewed the findings of GIA, including discussion AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE of any major issues arising, and any accounting and a udit judgements: and The Committee remained satisfied with PwCs independence, and their responsiveness to management, in respect of work held meetings with PwC without management present.
PwC have confirmed their independence.
Based on the Committees recommendation, the Board The Chair of the Committee also met privately with PwC are proposing that PwC are reappointed to office at this at other times.
PwC also report regularly on the actions that they have taken This years internal review of PwCs effectiveness and to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and performance concluded that they continue to operate to current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
EFFECTIVENESS OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR EXTERNAL AUDITOR ROTATION During the year, PwC presented to the Committee its approach PwC have been the Groups external auditors since 1991. to maintaining a quality audit and a questionnaire was circulated The Committee has been kept up to date with the development to those involved in the audit seeking their views on planning, of new EU-wide regulations concerning audit tenure and resources and quality of reporting.
The Committee considered the longevity of audit firm relationships with the companies the feedback from the review, which was generally very positive, they audit.
Under current EU transitional arrangements, it is and agreed those areas where improvements might be made.
anticipated that the last financial year that PwC would audit the Groups accounts would be that ending 31 December 2019.
The current audit partner took up his role in 2015.
NON-AUDIT FEES Continuity and consistency of audit quality are important, To safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the but the Committee is mindful of the fact that PwC have been Committee oversees the process for the approval of non-audit in place for 25 years without re-tender and it remains the services provided by PwC.
Prior to approval, consideration is Companys intention to initiate an audit re-tendering process given to whether it is in the interests of the Company that the in 2018.
The Company believes that this timing is appropriate services are purchased from PwC, rather than another supplier.
as it aligns with the rotation cycle for the current engagement Where PwC were chosen to provide non-audit services during partner.
There are no contractual obligations that would restrict the year, this was as a result of their detailed knowledge of the the selection of a different auditor.
structure of our business combined with an understanding of JLTs industry, which together made them the best supplier to carry out the relevant work cost effectively.
68 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RISK REVIEW PROCESS The Committees work in this regard is supported by the key control functions - including Group Risk & Compliance, Group A description of the processes followed by the Group to identify Internal Audit and Group Corporate Secretariat as well as by and manage risk is included in the Risk Management Report the Groups external auditors.
The Committee has increased its focus on this area in the past year and has discussed a number of matters relevant to CYBER RISK the fostering of an appropriate corporate culture within JLT, including the launch of a new whistleblowing process: the rollThe risk of any firm being compromised by some form of cyber out of the Groups 3 Lines of Defence model: the development event is ever present.
JLT takes cyber risk very seriously and of a robust enterprise-wide approach to risk management: seeks to address any threats from both internal or external the improving maturity of the control environment in the sources, whether intentional and malevolent or by simple Groups businesses: the positive results of the external quality human error.
JLT also recognises the interrelationship between assessment of GIA: and the year end review of internal controls.
addressing cyber risk and dealing with other subjects such as the forthcoming General Data Protection Regulation, as well as the fact that creating a strong environment to manage one will COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK assist addressing the other.
Our businesses around the Group are at differing levels of Cyber risk and related subjects have been the subject of regular maturity, but they have all implemented a suitable governance discussion at the Group ARC for several years.
Rather than and control environment, which in many cases either mirror, running a one off programme, JLT adopts the stance that this or are based upon, JLT Group standards and structures.
area requires a constant focus across people, processes and Businesses also adopt appropriate quality assurance process systems in order to stay current and to mitigate this threat.
and all significant businesses operate an independently chaired ARC based on a common Group format.
Businesses are subject to regular internal audits based on a common CULTURE Group-wide template and control model.
The Committee recognises that a strong and transparent Where local laws or regulations impose standards or corporate culture is a valuable asset and can protect and practices which differ from those of the wider JLT Group generate value.
Companies need to have a strong purpose, for example in relation to licensing requirements or the culture and ethical values in order to succeed and be applicable sanctions regime, adjustments are made to sustainable and to build trust among their stakeholders.
policies and practices as appropriate.
A healthy corporate culture starts with clear alignment of The compliance framework of each of our businesses business purpose, values, strategy and incentives, where will continue to evolve in response both to their growth people at all levels of an organisation understand the values and local legal and regulatory changes.
of the organisation and act in accordance with those values.
Corporate culture is led by the Board and is not about rules but ANTI-BRIBERY PROGRAMME about actions.
A key objective for both the Board and senior management is to communicate the behaviours they want to JLT enforces a rigorous anti-bribery and corruption programme see in the business and to find constructive ways to encourage across all jurisdictions in which it operates.
The programme and build those behaviours.
is underpinned by Group policy, which is not allowed to be tailored locally and is accompanied by mandatory on-line The Audit & Risk Committee also has an important role to play training, together with face-to-face training for appropriate in supporting the right culture across the Group, by overseeing colleague populations.
the provision of high quality, insightful reporting both internally and externally to the Groups stakeholders, which demonstrates Any payments to a third party, other than a client, in an that the Group has in place the right structures and processes insurance transaction are subject to a strict centrally controlled to support the right behaviours by employees.
This process is regularly reviewed by GIA, needs to recognise and address any instances where there is both centrally and in our regional businesses as part of the misalignment between behaviour, purposes and values.
The third party framework has been externally reviewed.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT QUALITY REVIEW REPORT During 2016 the Committee Chairman met with the FRC in the context of their Audit Quality Review AQR reporting process in respect of the 2015 audit process.
The AQR report concluded that the overall quality of the audit work was good and the work on calculating pension liabilities was of a particularly high standard.
DIRECTORS FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE STATEMENT At the request of the Board, the Committee carried out a detailed review of the robust processes which were followed in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and reported the results of that review to the Board.
The review also supported the Directors in satisfying themselves that they could make the statement on page 95 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Jonathan Dawson Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee 28 February 2017 70 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016
