OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT During the year there have been a number of significant senior management changes.
Geoffrey Howe As I mentioned in my Chairman's Another key area of focus for the Group INTRODUCTION FROM Statement, James Twining, Group has continued to be diversity.
We have THE COMMITTEE Commercial Director, stepped down defined JLTs diversity agenda on the CHAIRMAN from the Board in April 2016.
Bruce will basis of three pillars - Networking, unfortunately be stepping down from the Sponsorship and Involvement.
In 2016 I am pleased to present the Nominations Board at the end of June, following his JLT supported many initiatives, both Committee report for the year ended appointment as Chairman of Lloyd's internally and in public events in the 31 December 2016. of London.
London Market and other insurance hubs, to help to drive a more diverse It has been an active year for the There were also several senior and inclusive business and to play our Committee, with a particular focus on management changes in the year.
part in solving these challenges in our succession planning for both the Board Mike Rice, CEO of our US Specialty industry.
More details are available in and senior management.
business, and William Nabarro, Special the Corporate Responsibility Report on Adviser to the Group Chief Executive, During the year there were a number pages 46 to 53. both joined the Group Executive of changes to the Committee.
Lucy Clarke, The Committee continues to focus on were saddened by the death of Lord Deputy CEO of JLT Specialty, joined the succession planning and executive Leach, the previous Chairman of the Group Executive Committee with effect development.
Nominations Committee, in June 2016 from 26 September 2016. after a short illness.
Lord Leach was I will be available at the AGM to answer a greatly valued member of our Board With effect from 28 February 2017, the any questions on the work of the and also provided strong leadership to following senior management changes Committee during the year.
the Nominations Committee for over 19 are being made: Mike Methley is being years.
I replaced Lord Leach as Chairman appointed as Group Chief Operating of the Committee following his death.
Mark Drummond Brady becomes CEO of JLT Latin America and Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Adam Chairman of JLT Canada, in addition to Keswick joined the Board and the his current role as Deputy Group CEO.
Committee on 1 May 2016 and 1 Mike Reynolds, Global CEO of JLT Re, September 2016 respectively.
Richard Geoffrey Howe assumes responsibility for JLT Insurance Harvey retired from the Board and the Chairman, Nominations Committee Management.
Bala Viswanathan, CEO of Committee on 31 December 2016.
28 February 2017 JLT UK & Ireland Employee Benefits, also becomes International Chairman of Employee Benefits.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE SUCCESSION PLANNING One of the key roles of the Committee is to discuss succession The Committee comprises the following members: planning for the Board and other senior management positions.
It is important that a pipeline of talent is recognised and nurtured within Committee Members Geoffrey Howe Chairman Jonathan Dawson Nicholas Walsh the business and the skills and experience of senior management Bruce Carnegie-Brown Adam Keswick are developed.
Ultimate responsibility for making senior management Annette Court Lord Sassoon appointments rests with the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the The Committee is confident that there are in place succession plans for Committee and, where appropriate, others attend meetings by Directors and senior management which are appropriate to enable the invitation, as listed below.
implementation of our corporate strategy and our future growth plans.
The Committee works to ensure that its succession planning looks Meeting Participants ahead over multiple years, addresses any identified skill shortages and Group Chief Executive Group Human Resources Director pays particular attention to the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The table below shows the Committee members attendance During the year the Committee discussed future succession plans during 2016: for the role of Group Chief Executive.
The services of Korn Ferry were engaged in order to carry out an evaluation of several potential internal Committee members Eligible to attend Attended candidates for the role, in order to identify development opportunities Geoffrey Howe Chairman 2 2 2 for those individuals.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown 1 1 1 Annette Court 2 2 2 During 2016 the Board appointed two new Non-Executive Directors.
Jonathan Dawson 2 2 2 An external search consultancy, The Zygos Partnership, was used for Richard Harvey 2 2 2 the appointment of Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
The Zygos Partnership Adam Keswick 1 1 1 has no other connections with the Company.
Adam Keswick was Lord Leach 1 1 1 a nominee of Jardine Matheson and as a result an external search Lord Sassoon 2 2 2 consultancy was not used.
Nicholas Walsh 2 2 2 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee aims to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience, expertise and background on the Board.
In preparing to The Committee ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and recommend new appointments, the Committee takes into account the transparent process for new Board appointments in place.
benefits of maintaining diversity whilst considering candidates on merit It is the Committees responsibility to lead this process before against objective criteria.
delivering a final recommendation on new appointments to the Board.
Such appointments are made on merit and against The Board fully endorses the recommendations made by Lord Davies objective criteria.
The Committee evaluates the balance of skills, of Abersoch in his report issued in 2011 on Women on Boards and knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of that supports the Codes recommendation that diversity and gender should evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities be considered when making Board appointments.
JLT recognises the required for each particular appointment.
benefits of having a diverse Board and is committed to achieving a Board which includes and makes the best use of differences in culture, The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on gender, skills, background, regional, financial and industry experience the JLT website jlt.
For and on behalf of the Board.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES The Committee met formally on 2 occasions during 2016, as well as corresponding and meeting informally on a number of occasions to discuss key events during the year.
Key activities during the year Geoffrey Howe Succession planning Executive development Diversity Chairman, Nominations Committee During the year the Committee focused on succession 28 February 2017 planning and the development of Directors and high performing members of senior management, as well as on the promotion of diversity and inclusion across the organisation.
72 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016
