Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with good corporate governance is Board Operation important to the Board.
This report sets out how the The Board is responsible for the direction, management Company has applied the main principles set out in and performance of the Company.
The Board held nine the UK Corporate Governance Code published by scheduled meetings during the year under review and the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 ad hoc meetings were held between scheduled the Code and the extent to which the Company meetings, where required.
Directors attendance has complied with the provisions of the Code.
at scheduled Board and Committee meetings is set out in the table opposite.
The Board is responsible for The Board providing effective leadership and promoting the The Board currently consists of six Directors: an success of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule Executive Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer of matters reserved specifically to it for decisions which and four Non-Executive Directors.
Martin Davies include major strategic matters, approval of financial is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
statements, acquisitions and disposals and significant The name, position and brief profile of each Director capital projects.
The Board delegates certain powers to Board The composition of the Board is kept under review Committees, as set out below.
and changes are made when appropriate and in the best interests of the Group.
The Board considers that Board papers are circulated to Directors prior to its composition during the year had the necessary Board meetings which include up-to-date financial balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors information, reports from the Executive Directors and providing the desired blend of skills, experience and papers on major issues for consideration by the Board.
judgement appropriate for the needs of the Groups The Board has a formal procedure for Directors to business and overall effectiveness of the Board.
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors All Board members have full access to the Company is considered by the Board on an annual basis.
All Secretary who is a fully admitted solicitor and attends Non-Executive Directors, save for Andy Rubin, are all Board and Committee meetings.
The Company considered to be independent by the Board.
Andrew Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on Leslie was formerly an Executive Director of Pentland Corporate Governance matters.
The appointment and Brands Plc, a subsidiary of Pentland Group Plc removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Pentland, the Companys largest shareholder.
Andrew Board as a whole to determine.
Andrew Batchelor Leslie does not represent the interests of Pentland on resigned as the Company Secretary and was replaced the Board and retired from Pentland Brands Plc in 2008. by Siobhan Mawdsley with effect from 1 October 2015.
Andy Rubin is the Chairman of Pentland Brands and a Director of Pentland Group Plc and is, therefore, not All newly appointed Directors receive an appropriate considered by the Board to be an independent Noninduction when they join the Board.
The Board believes that the Nonis arranged as and when deemed appropriate.
Executive Directors have provided ample guidance to the Board and perform an effective role in challenging A performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees the Executive Directors, when appropriate.
and individual Directors was conducted during the year.
This consisted of an internally run exercise From time to time, the Executive Chairman meets conducted through the completion by each Director with the Non-Executive Directors without the other of a questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary Directors present to discuss Board performance and which encourages each Director to give his opinions other matters considered appropriate.
on Board and Committee procedures, operation and effectiveness as well as any other matter they wish The Board considers that all the Directors are able to raise.
to devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors of the Company.
The brief biographical detail on A separate questionnaire was completed by the Directors page 64 includes details of the Chairmans other other than the Executive Chairman in relation to the directorships of listed companies.
The Board is performance of the Executive Chairman with the Senior satisfied that these appointments do not conflict Independent Director discussing the resulting feedback with the Chairmans ability to carry out his role with the other Non-Executive Directors, taking into effectively for the Group.
account the views of the other Executive Directors excluding the Executive Chairman.
The feedback from Under the Companys Articles of Association, all the evaluation process is used by the Board to identify Directors are required to retire and offer themselves strengths and development areas and confirmed that the for re-election every three years.
However, in Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
The accordance with the Code, all Directors will retire and Board determined that an internal performance offer themselves for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Company, through its majority shareholder Principal Duties Pentland Group Plc, maintains appropriate Directors The Committees principal duties are to review draft and Officers liability insurance.
annual and interim financial statements prior to being submitted to the Board, reviewing the effectiveness Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings of the Groups system of internal control, risk management and the performance and cost Year to Board Remuneration Audit Nomination effectiveness of the external auditor.
30 January 2016 Meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number Main Activities During the Year 9 3 2 2 of meetings The Committees activities included: P Cowgill 9 3 1 2 1 2 Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements B Small 9 1 1 2 1 2 and interim results statement prior to Board A Leslie 9 3 2 2 approval and reviewing the external auditors M Davies 9 3 2 2 detailed reports thereon including internal controls.
H Jackson 7 1 1 1 Reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups financial statements of certain matters such Notes: as impairments of fixed asset values and proposed 1.
P Cowgill and B Small attended the Remuneration International Accounting Standards.
Committee meetings and the Audit Committee meetings Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit at the invitation of the members of those Committees.
of the Groups financial statements, key risks of misstatement in the financial statements, Conflicts of Interest confirmations of auditor independence, audit fee The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board and terms of engagement of the auditor.
to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations Reviewing the independence and effectiveness of where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or the Groups external auditor.
possibly could conflict, with the interests of the Reviewing the arrangements in place for employees Company.
The Board considers that the procedures to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts in confidence to ensure they remain appropriate.
Reviewing the Companys risk register and internal controls.
Board Committees Consideration of whether an internal audit function There are three principal Board Committees to which should be established.
the Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference for all three Committees are Financial Statements and Significant available for inspection on request and are available Accounting Matters on the Companys corporate website www.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim results Audit Committee statement prior to Board approval.
As part of such review, the Committee considers whether suitable Membership and Meetings accounting policies have been adopted and whether The Audit Committee currently comprises three appropriate judgements have been made by independent Non-Executive Directors, Martin Davies, management.
The Committee also reviews reports Andrew Leslie and Heather Jackson.
Martin Davies by the external auditor on the full year and half chairs the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met twice in the year with the external auditor attending each meeting.
Details of attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out in the table above.
69 69 69 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued The following are material areas in which significant The Committee has a formal policy on the provision judgements have been applied and have been of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The considered by the Committee during the year: objective of the policy is to ensure the external auditors independence is maintained and to establish Impairment of Goodwill and Fascia Names appropriate approval levels prior to non-audit work The Committee considered the assumptions being undertaken by the external auditor.
Under the underlying the calculation of the value in use of the policy, any non-audit services to be undertaken by the cash generating units being tested for impairment, auditor require advance authorisation in accordance primarily the achievement of the short term business with the following: plan, the assumptions on discount rates and long term growth rates.
The Committee reviewed the budgets Work in excess of 100,000 Committee and business plans that support the impairment approval required.
reviews and challenged the key assumptions used and For individual pieces of work between 20,000 and are comfortable that they represent managements 100,000 Executive Chairman approval required.
best estimate at the time.
For individual pieces of work below 20,000 - Chief Financial Officer approval required.
The external auditor provides to the Committee detailed explanations of the results of their review KPMG have acted as auditor to the Company since of the estimate of the value in use, including their its flotation in 1996 and no tender exercise has been challenge of managements underlying cash flow conducted to date.
The lead partner is subject to projections, the key growth assumptions and discount rotation every five years to safeguard independence, rates.
The Committee has also reviewed the with a new lead partner having been appointed to disclosures in the financial statements.
lead the audit during the 2014 15 financial year.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Company During the year the Committee reviewed the value complied throughout the financial year under review in use of the Blacks, Millets and ActivInstinct fascia with The Statutory Audit Services for Large names and, after performing relevant sensitivity Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of analyses, believe that these values are recoverable.
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Further information on the Blacks and Millets Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Audit Committee sensitivity analysis is provided in note 14. does not necessarily intend to recommend to the Board that it carries out a competitive tender Valuation of Inventories programme for audit services within the next financial The Committee considered the assumptions used in year, however, this process will be completed in the inventory obsolescence provision models across advance of the deadline for completing a mandatory the Group.
The valuation of inventories is a principal competitive tender process.
risk for the Group as its retail businesses are highly seasonal.
The Committee reviews the provision The Committee keeps under review the relationship models and challenges management on the key between the Group and external auditor and, having judgements made over aged stock and the level of considered the external auditors performance during proceeds for aged stock.
their period in office and being satisfied that the external auditor continues to be independent, The external auditor reports to the Committee on the recommends their reappointment.
work they have completed and how their audit work is concentrated on this area.
Internal Audit The Company does not currently have an internal External Auditor audit function.
The Committee considers on an annual A breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees basis whether an internal auditor should be recruited is set out in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial and at the current time has determined that this is not Statements on page 97.
Non-audit work was necessary due to the centralised nature of the Groups comprised mainly of tax and other project work and core operations and the Groups experienced Profit was undertaken by the external auditor due to their Protection team who play an effective role in limiting knowledge and understanding of the Groups business shrinkage, theft and fraud.
The Profit Protection and in the interests of efficiency.
Larger pieces of Director reports to the Board on a quarterly basis.
non-audit work were awarded following a tender process.
The Company has instructed other firms to provide non-audit services from time to time in prior years and the Committee will keep the level of non-audit work performed by the auditor under review.
The Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of non-audit services performed by the external auditor does not impact their independence.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Committee successful completion of the recruitment exercise.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Heather was appointed to the Board on 6 May 2015 three independent Non-Executive Directors, Andrew and brief biographical details about Heather are Leslie, Martin Davies and Heather Jackson.
Leslie is the chair of the Remuneration Committee.
In January 2015 the Board adopted a diversity policy The Committees principal duties are to determine which seeks to recognise and promote the benefits overall Group remuneration policy, remuneration which diversity can bring to the Group packages for Executive Directors and senior and its operations.
management, the terms of Executive Director service contracts, the terms of any performance-related Internal Control schemes operated by the Group and awards thereunder.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Committee met three times during the year.
This process has been in place for the year under review.
Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are set out in the table on page 69.
The Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, has full responsibility for the Groups system of Further details about Directors remuneration are set internal controls and monitoring their effectiveness.
out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages However, such a system is designed to manage rather 73 to 81. than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Nomination Committee absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The Nomination Committee currently comprises The Board has established a well-defined Peter Cowgill, the Executive Chairman, and two organisation structure with clear operating independent Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Leslie procedures, lines of responsibility, delegated and Martin Davies.
The Executive Chairman is the authority to executive management and a chair of the Nominations Committee.
The Committees principal duties are to consider the Key features of the Groups system of internal control size, structure and composition of the Board, ensure and risk management are: appropriate succession plans are in place for the Board and senior management and, where necessary, Identification and monitoring of the business risks consider new appointments to the Board and senior facing the Group, with major risks identified and management.
The Nominations Committee met twice reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Detailed appraisal and authorisation procedures for capital investment.
From time to time, the full Board performs some of Prompt preparation of comprehensive monthly the duties of the Nomination Committee, as was the management accounts providing relevant, reliable case during the year under review.
In addition, regular and up-to-date information.
These allow for informal discussions on Board structure, succession comparison with budget and previous years results.
and performance take place between the NonSignificant variances from approved budgets are Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman.
Preparation of comprehensive annual profit and Board Composition and Diversity cash flow budgets allowing management to Whilst the Board is mindful of the recommendations monitor business activities and major risks and the of the Davies Review, the Boards overriding aim is progress towards financial objectives in the short to ensure that Board membership is based on merit and medium term.
and that any new appointments to the Board are Monitoring of store procedures and the reporting measured against objective criteria.
and investigation of suspected fraudulent activities.
Reconciliation and checking of all cash and stock The Board undertook a recruitment exercise in the balances and investigation of any material differences.
previous financial year led by the Senior Independent Director, employing the professional services of In addition, the Audit Committee receives Korn Ferry a recruitment and executive search comprehensive reports from the external auditor in consultancy.
The search had due regard to the relation to the financial statements and the Groups benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender system of internal controls.
diversity, as well as relevant experience against an agreed criteria.
The Board is, accordingly, pleased to welcome Heather Jackson to the Board following the 71 71 71 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Report continued The Group has a formal whistleblowing policy in place Compliance with the Code enabling employees to raise concerns in relation to the The Directors consider that during the year under Groups activities on a confidential basis.
Information review and to the date of this report, the Company about whistleblowing channels is made available to all complied with the Code except in relation to the store and head office employees.
During the year, the following: whistleblowing policy was updated, reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
6.2 The Board did not conduct an externally facilitated evaluation exercise, as the It is the Groups policy to conduct all of its business in Board considered it most appropriate to carry out an ethical manner.
The Group takes a zero tolerance an internal evaluation exercise this year.
The Board approach to bribery and corruption, amongst its will keep under consideration on an annual basis employees, suppliers and any associated parties whether an externally facilitated exercise is acting on the Groups behalf.
The Group has a detailed appropriate and would provide value for money.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and is committed Code provision C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 These provisions to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all require there to be three independent Nonits business dealings and relationships and to Executive Directors on the Audit Committee and implementing effective systems to counter bribery.
Each such Committee was comprised of two independent The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors until 6 May 2015 when Groups system of internal controls and believes this Heather Jackson was appointed to the Board and to be effective.
In establishing the system of internal joined the Audit Committee and the Remuneration control the Directors have regard to the materiality of Committee and, accordingly, since that date, the relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred Company has complied with these Code provisions.
It follows, therefore, that the Code provision C. 3.7 The audit has not been put system of internal control can only provide a out to tender within the last ten years.
In light of the reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the Code, the Committee will keep under review the risk of material misstatement or loss.
appropriate timing for a formal tender.
Code provision D1.1 The Directors remuneration The integration of recently acquired businesses into policy, which was approved by shareholders at the the Groups system of internal controls is achieved as AGM held on 26 June 2014, does not include quickly as possible.
clawback and malus provisions, as recommended by the Code.
Following such shareholder approval, Shareholder Relations the remuneration policy will remain in force for a The Executive Directors maintain an active dialogue period of three years and, accordingly, will be with the Companys major shareholders to enhance renewed, subject to a shareholder vote, at the understanding of their respective objectives.
Executive Chairman provides feedback to the Board on issues raised by major shareholders.
This is This report was approved by the Board and signed on supplemented by twice yearly formal feedback to the its behalf by: Board on meetings between management, analysts and investors which seeks to convey the financial markets perception of the Group.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through dialogue with the Executive Directors, or for which such contact is Brian Small inappropriate.
Major shareholders may meet with the Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Directors upon request.
13 April 2016 External brokers reports on the Group are circulated to the Board for consideration.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors attend results presentations and analyst and institutional investor meetings whenever possible.
The AGM is attended by all Directors, and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
