48 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has resolved that the disclosures to be made in the Annual Report regarding the operation of the Board and its sub-committees should comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and best practice generally.
The Company complied with the requirements of the Code throughout 2016.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and the full text is available on its website at www.
The following section describes how the Board applies the main principles of the Code.
DIRECTORS The Directors were appointed to the Board in the early part of 2015 in anticipation of the admission of the Companys ordinary shares to the premium listing segment of the FCA and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market of listed securities.
The Board believes it has an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
The Board met on a regular basis throughout the year and as needed to deal with special business.
The Board has appointed an Audit & Risk Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee which consider issues relevant to their specific terms of reference.
The offices of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are held separately.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda of matters reserved for decision and approval by the Board and also address any special business.
Matters reserved for the Board include the review of strategy and organisational change, the review and monitoring of internal controls and risk management processes, the approval of significant investments and disposals, the approval of budgets and the regular review of current trading and the financial position of the Group.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board is published on the Companys website at www.
The Board receives regular reports on current trading and the financial position and forecasts of the Group prior to its meetings.
In addition, the Board receives relevant information on business, corporate and strategic issues.
Formal procedures exist to ensure that the Board is made aware of any significant health and safety issues and non-compliance with statutory regulations.
Olivier Brousse is the Board member responsible for health and safety issues.
Further details of the Companys approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 41 of this Annual Report.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts.
At the end of each year, all Directors make a declaration concerning any conflicts they or their connected persons may have.
In addition, at the start of each Board meeting, as a routine item, Directors are asked to declare any interests that might conflict with the agenda items under discussion.
Directors may also notify the Company, via the Company Secretary, at any time, of any potential or future conflicts that may arise.
Any such notifications are reviewed at the next Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, authorised.
Directors do not participate in the discussion or vote regarding their own conflicts.
If authorised, any conflicts are entered in the register of Directors conflicts.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense in the furtherance of their duties and have full access to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Upon appointment, non-executive directors undertake an induction process to familiarise themselves with the Groups activities, policies and key issues.
During their appointment they are expected to dedicate adequate time to carry out their role effectively and to challenge management in a constructive way.
The Chairman meets regularly with the other non-executive directors to discuss the performance of the Board and the Board sub-committees.
The performance of Executive Directors is measured against predetermined objectives that are agreed with each Executive Director at the start of the financial year.
The Chairman has no executive responsibilities but leads and sets the agenda for the Board.
The Chairman also acts as an interface between the Executive Directors and non-executive directors.
EFFECTIVENESS In 2016, the Chairman and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary appointed Colin Mayer, an independent external facilitator, to conduct a Board evaluation review.
The process consisted of structured interviews with each Director, selected senior management, the external and internal auditors, the Companys corporate brokers, two shareholders and two equity analysts, as well as attendance at several Board and Committee meetings.
The conclusions of the review were that John Laing is a well governed and well regarded company that conforms to the requirements of the Code.
The Company has a high calibre Board.
Proceedings are well run, with a strong collegiate approach, which encourages open and frank discussions.
A number of agreed action points from the 2016 Board evaluation review are set out below: Following good progress since the Companys listing in February 2015, the Board now needs to focus on the future development of the business.
This should include devoting sufficient time and attention to strategy and its implementation: As the business becomes more international, so the Boards governance may need to become more international: The Board should give careful consideration to its risk appetite when adopting its expansion plans: There needs to be more opportunity for engagement of the non-executive Directors with management below the senior management level: and There should be more structured Board succession planning.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairman, in conjunction with the other Board members.
The review recognised that the Chairman brings a deep knowledge of the business, together with extensive experience and expertise.
Certain areas of focus were identified to optimise the operation of the Board in the future, and these areas will be considered at the following years review.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Nomination Audit & Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in 2016 9154 Total number of meetings attended in 2016 Nomination Audit & Risk Remuneration Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Olivier Brousse No 91 n a n a Patrick OD Bourke No 9 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Phil Nolan On appointment 91 n a n a Jeremy Beeton Yes 9154 Toby Hiscock Yes 9154 David Rough Yes 9154 Anne Wade Yes 91 n a 4 BOARD SUB-COMMITTEES Sub-committees of the Board have been constituted to consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding matters relating to external and internal audit, internal control and risk management processes, the selection of appropriate accounting policies, the presentation of the half year and full year accounts, investment performance, acquisitions and disposals and the appointment of Directors and Directors remuneration.
Membership is determined by the Board and the duties of the Board sub-committees are set out in the following sections of this report.
All the sub-committees of the Board operate within clearly defined terms of reference which are reviewed and updated to reflect best practice and the Code as far as is commercially practicable.
The terms of reference of the sub-committees are available on request from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and are published on the Companys website at www.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE The Audit & Risk Committee, formerly the Audit Committee, is chaired by Toby Hiscock, a non-executive director, who has up to date relevant financial experience.
The other members are David Rough and Jeremy Beeton.
During the year, the Committee met five times.
Its terms of reference were widened following the meeting in February 2016.
It now considers in more detail risk management processes in addition to reviewing internal control procedures, including internal audit plans, and the interim and full year results, including external audit plans.
Regular reviews of significant risks are undertaken at meetings of the Committee and its observations are reported to the Board.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate altogether the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to the Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, that internal control processes, including those related to risk management, are relevant, effective and have operated across the business throughout the year.
The Group Finance Director is normally invited to attend meetings, along with other members of management as appropriate.
The external auditor and Head of Internal Audit are also invited to attend meetings and meet with the Audit & Risk Committee privately, without management present, at least once a year.
The Committee considers and approves the external audit approach with the external auditor.
The Committee reviews the independence of the external auditor and the procedures in place to ensure that its independence is not compromised.
The Committees specific approval is required for non-audit services performed by the external auditor where the fee is expected to exceed 20,000 in accordance with the Companys charter of statutory auditor independence a copy of which can be found on the Companys website at www.
Audit & Risk Committee meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are provided to the Directors and the external auditor.
The Committee reports to the Board, through the Chairman of the Committee.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 50 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee met once during the year.
Phil Nolan is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other members of the Committee are the four non-executive directors Anne Wade, David Rough, Jeremy Beeton and Toby Hiscock and the Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider and make recommendations to the Board concerning all new Board appointments and the retirement of Directors and to make recommendations to the Board relating to the policy for the ongoing education and development of Directors.
The Committee uses external search consultants or open advertising for recruitment purposes as deemed most appropriate.
When nominating candidates for non-executive directorships, the Committee takes account of the need for diversity and independence.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the most appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence and to ensure their continued effectiveness.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee has four scheduled meetings each year and meets additionally as circumstances require.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Anne Wade is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other members are Jeremy Beeton, Toby Hiscock and David Rough.
The Remuneration Committee sets and monitors the overall remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Company has adopted the FCAs Remuneration Code which is applied to those staff involved in regulated activities.
The Committee reviews, but does not limit itself to, the following key areas and makes recommendations to the Board accordingly: total remuneration including base pay, bonus and incentive arrangements : method of remuneration: service contracts: terms and conditions and any material changes to the standard terms of employment: and approval of financial arrangements proposed by the Chief Executive Officer relating to the termination of Executive Directors service contracts.
The activities, recommendations and approvals of the Committee are reported to the next routinely scheduled Board meeting.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors, the Group Managing Director of Primary Investment, the Group Managing Director of Asset Management and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee deals with the day-to-day business of the Group and also considers Group-wide initiatives and priorities.
It reviews the implementation of strategy, discusses the development of new investments and progress on existing investments.
It also reviews the disposal of investments and proposals before they are presented to the Board and monitors progress against the budget.
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The purpose of the Investment Committee is to make recommendations to the Board, or to approve proposals within its delegated authority, in relation to the Groups investments in infrastructure projects.
The Committee also reviews the Groups portfolio valuation and monitors the balance of risk across the portfolio.
The activities, recommendations and approvals of the Committee are reported to the Board.
The Committees delegated authorities are reviewed annually by the Board.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and comprise the Executive Directors, the Group Managing Director of Primary Investment, the Group Managing Director of Asset Management, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and up to five other persons as the Board shall nominate from time to time.
The Committee is currently chaired by the Group Managing Director of Asset Management and usually meets at least fortnightly.
The role of the Investment Committee has recently been reviewed with the help of external consultants.
A number of changes are in the process of being implemented including the recruitment of a dedicated resource in order to improve the quality of risk analysis.
MANAGEMENT RISK COMMITTEE The Management Risk Committees role is to assist the Audit & Risk Committee and Board in monitoring financial, legal and regulatory risks, by reviewing the internal control and risk management systems of the Group.
The Committee normally meets six times a year.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the senior management and comprise at least three members of the senior management team, including the Group Finance Director.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and its other members are currently the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Managing Director of Asset Management and three other senior managers.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board is committed to providing shareholders with timely announcements of significant events or transactions affecting the Company, including its financial performance and any changes to strategy as well as material investment commitments and realisations.
As part of this, the Companys brokers provide regular market feedback to the Board and senior management.
In addition, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to shareholders to discuss governance, strategy or any concern they may have.
In the second quarter of 2016, the Chairman wrote to the 20 largest investors and met with those who responded to his offer of a meeting.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director are responsible for the Companys interaction with existing shareholders, potential new shareholders and analysts.
To ensure its financial and operational performance and strategic objectives are properly communicated, the Company operates a dedicated investor relations programme.
This includes formal events along with other meetings outside the financial reporting calendar.
In October 2016, the Chief Executive Officer, together with other members of the senior management team, hosted the Companys first investor day since its IPO: this focused on risk management, value creation and origination of new investments.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
