52 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION FROM CHAIRMAN 2016 was a busy and challenging period for the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee.
The remit of the Committee was broadened during the year to assist the Board with its governance of risks across the Group.
We are now responsible to the Board for oversight of risk management as well as for audit.
In addition, and as flagged in last years Annual Report, we tendered the external audit.
Details of these and other relevant matters are given below.
I hope you find the report both informative and helpful.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE Further to an internal Board effectiveness review in late 2015, the Directors decided to bolster their oversight of risk management by reconstituting the Audit Committee as the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: 1.
Scrutinise the Group and Company financial statements, preliminary announcements, trading updates and other public statements of financial performance and position: 2. Review the content of the annual and interim report and accounts and advise the Board on whether, as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys financial affairs, business model and strategy: 3.
Monitor the efficacy of the Groups internal financial and operational controls, including compliance with FCA requirements, insurance cover, data protection and cyber security, business continuity and disaster recovery plans: 4.
Monitor the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: 5.
Consider and recommend to the Board the appointment, reappointment, resignation or removal of the Groups external auditor, subject to approval by the Companys shareholders at the AGM: 6.
Negotiate and agree on behalf of the Board the external auditors remuneration, including fees for any non-audit services performed: 7.
Assess the external auditors independence and objectivity, the overall effectiveness of the external audit process and the quality of its work: 8.
Advise the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance and monitor the confluence of risks affecting the Groups markets and projects: 9. Review the results of regular stress testing of the major financial exposures of the Group: 10.
Advise the Board on any proposed strategic transactions, including acquisitions and disposals of recourse business entities: and 11.
Advise the Remuneration Committee on any risk weightings applied to performance objectives in executive remuneration.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during the year.
It continues to be entirely made up of independent non-executive directors as follows: Toby Hiscock Chairman Jeremy Beeton David Rough.
The Committee Chairman is deemed to have up to date relevant financial experience and competence in accounting.
The Committee as a whole has extensive experience of investing in international infrastructure, which is at the heart of the Groups business.
Further details of the qualifications and experience of Committee members are given on pages 44 to 45 of this Annual Report.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee met four times during the year on regular business and once on the external audit tender see page 54.
Going forward, the Committee will meet at least five times a year in order to discharge its enhanced responsibilities.
The Group Finance Director and other management representatives attend regular meetings, together with the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor.
In addition, both internal and external auditors met privately with the Committee during the year without management present.
The Committee Chairman attends each AGM of the Company and is prepared to answer any questions from shareholders on matters falling within the Committees responsibilities.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 SIGNIFICANT MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN RESPECT OF THE 2016 GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
The portfolio valuation is at the core of the Groups financial reporting and the Committee has a particular responsibility to ensure it is comprehensively reported in a fair, balanced and understandable manner.
A full valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is prepared every six months, at 30 June and 31 December each year, with a review at 31 March and 30 September each year, principally using a discounted cash flow methodology.
The valuation assumes that investments and their related cash flows are held until maturity.
Changes in the fair value of investments are recognised in the Group Income Statement in net gains on investments at fair value through profit or loss.
In preparing the valuation, the key assumptions made by management include the: i forecast cash flows accruing to each investment: ii macro-economic factors affecting forecast cash flows, such as long term inflation, interest, foreign exchange and taxation rates: and iii discount factors applied to each investment to reflect market and operational risks.
The fair value of investments is sensitive to changes in these assumptions and, in order to aid shareholders, a number of the sensitivities are illustrated in the Portfolio Valuation section on pages 22 to 26 of this Annual Report.
During the year the Committee reviewed and challenged the valuations and disclosures prepared by management as well as the work performed by the Groups independent valuer, a professionally qualified third party, and the procedures carried out by the external auditor.
In particular, on the valuation of the Groups investments in New Royal Adelaide Hospital and Manchester Waste VL Co, we scrutinised the latest available information on construction completion plans and operational progress together with the status of dispute resolution with the counterparties concerned.
We are satisfied that the Groups portfolio investments as a whole have been reflected in the 2016 accounts at their prevailing fair value.
An actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2016 of the Groups main defined benefit pension scheme was completed during the year.
The combined deficit in the Groups two defined benefit and post-retirement medical schemes is reflected in the Group Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 19.
The deficit is sensitive to movements in future price inflation, discount rates and life expectancy and can, therefore, be volatile.
Again to assist shareholders, a table showing the sensitivity of liabilities to movements in assumptions is included in note 18 of the Group financial statements on page 102 of this Annual Report.
The IAS 19 deficit calculation is prepared by the Company with input from the Groups actuarial adviser.
Following detailed review and challenge of the underlying assumptions, in addition to assessing the procedures performed by the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the deficit shown as at 31 December 2016 is properly disclosed and fairly reflects the Groups net retirement benefit obligations outstanding at that date as prescribed by IAS 19.
Furthermore, the Committee is satisfied that, based on legal advice, there is no minimum funding requirement and consequently no additional pension liability arising under IFRIC 14.
As part of its broader remit the Committee received various presentations and reports from senior management during the year on, for example, bidding activities, portfolio management, major financial exposures and provisions, and taxation risks.
We looked at markets, business growth and organisational risks, the aggregated exposures to contractors that we partner with, taxation exposures including the Groups preparedness for the new BEPS regime, Brexit and other key risks set out in the Groups risk register, such as IT security and cyber risks even though the Group does not manage large volumes of customer and employee data.
Our examination cannot give absolute assurance that the Groups internal control system is operating effectively, nevertheless in summary we are satisfied that the control and compliance culture of the Group is strong and the risk base is well diversified, which helps to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material error and or misstatement.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 54 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL AUDIT The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Committee and has access to the Group and Committee Chairmen.
During the year the Committee reviewed and challenged the efficacy of the Internal Audit function by scrutinising its: 1.
Terms of reference, together with its budget and resourcing: 2.
Programme of work and, where the expertise does not exist internally, its outsource providers: and 3.
Reports and the adequacy of responses and quality of feedback from management to the findings in them.
Internal Audit achieved its coverage plan for the year under review and a large majority of the audits completed were rated as satisfactory or good.
The Committee examined in detail a small minority of audits assessed as weak together with the remedial actions undertaken by management.
The Committee also looked at emerging trends and theme audits.
In summary, it is satisfied with the performance of the Internal Audit function.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Following detailed consideration of the areas below, the Committee was satisfied with the external auditors independence and quality of its audit in respect of 2016.
Deloittes planned approach to both the interim and annual accounts, which is risk-based and thorough, and also incorporates an assessment of key financial controls relevant to the audit: 2.
Deloittes execution of the above approach, including its assessment of key accounting and audit judgements principally the fair value of the Groups investment portfolio and retirement benefit obligations: 3.
Deloittes arrangements to identify, manage and report any of its own conflicts of interest there were none: 4.
Deloittes safeguards over its audit independence and objectivity, including the periodic rotation of its lead engagement and other partners: 5.
The extent and quality of non-audit services provided by Deloitte during the year: and 6.
The arrangements for day to day management of the audit relationship by the Group Finance Director and his team.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and approved on behalf of the Board the external auditors remuneration and terms of engagement.
Fees for audit services to the Company and recourse group during the year amounted to 185,806 2015 216,742.
Fees for audit services to non-recourse subsidiaries during the year amounted to 62,129 2015 84,904.
Following the recent audit tender see below, audit fees are expected to remain close to the 2016 levels, subject to future price inflation.
The only non-audit work performed by Deloitte in 2016 was in relation to the review of the Group and Companys interim financial statements and the annual review of the Groups FCA regulated subsidiary.
Fees for non-audit work amounted to 44,800 2015 44,700.
This is expected to remain the case for the foreseeable future and contrasts with the exceptional level of non-audit fees paid to Deloitte in 2015 in relation to the Companys successful IPO.
The Company publishes on its website a charter of statutory auditor independence, which sets out the means to ensure the external auditor remains independent throughout its term.
In particular the external auditor is required to rotate its engagement partner every five years and the audit is subject to an open market tender at least every ten years see below.
In addition, no work by the external auditor is permitted in the following areas: outsourcing or partnering of business: tax structuring advice: and the valuation of acquisition targets and related due diligence other than transaction support namely a review of a targets financial statements and internal control systems.
All potential non-audit work by the external auditor is considered case by case by the Committee and is usually awarded on a competitive basis.
The Company is required to tender its audit every ten years in accordance with UK Competition and Market Authority regulations, effective from when the external auditor was first appointed.
As Deloitte was first appointed in 2007, 2016 was the last year in which it could audit the Group and Companys accounts before a tender was due.
The Committee on behalf of the Board undertook a tender of the audit during the year.
Four firms, including Deloitte, were invited to participate.
A shortlist of two firms, including Deloitte, resulted and, after careful consideration, the Committee decided to recommend to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte.
This reappointment is predicated on a fresh perspective from Deloitte, including: a new lead engagement partner Claire Faulkner : new tax and pensions partners: more controls rather than pure transaction testing: and further deployment of computer-assisted audit techniques.
The Group has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The recommendation to reappoint Deloitte was supported unanimously by the Board and will be subject to shareholder approval at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 OTHER MATTERS Other matters considered by the Committee during 2016 included, but were not limited to: 1.
The lookout period and forecast assumptions, such as funding capacity, underlying the viability statement and the adoption of the going concern basis in the financial statements: 2.
The Groups compliance with financial regulation, including anti bribery, anti-money laundering and whistle blowing arrangements: and 3.
The Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud.
After detailed consideration and enquiry, including testing of evidence provided by management, each of these matters was deemed satisfactory by the Committee.
Toby Hiscock AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 6 March 2017 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
