86 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Our board of directors is responsible to our The UK Corporate Governance Code was published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC shareholders for ensuring the sound running in May 2010 with revised versions published in September 2012 and September 2014 of the company.
This can only be achieved the Code.
The Code contains broad principles and specific provisions which set out if the board is supported by appropriate standards of good practice in relation to leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, and well managed governance processes.
accountability and relations with shareholders.
This Corporate Governance Report The key elements of these are described is structured so as to report against the Code by reference to each of these key areas.
in this Corporate Governance Report.
Together with the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report and the Remuneration Report, it describes how we have complied with the relevant provisions of the Code and applied its main principles during the year.
We have complied with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year except in relation to Senior Independent Director contact with major shareholders.
This is explained in more detail on page 97.
Compliance Committee, the Finance and This statement, together with the schedule LEADERSHIP Administration Committee, the IT Committee of matters reserved for the board, as well Governance Framework and the Contracts Review Committee, each as the terms of reference of the Audit of which has responsibility for certain areas Committee, Nomination Committee and The groups principal decision making body within the group.
Remuneration Committee, can be found is the board.
It has responsibility for setting The governance framework is described in the Investor Relations Corporate the groups strategic direction and for on page 87.
Governance section of our website.
ensuring that the group manages risk There is a clear division of responsibilities Further information on the role of effectively.
The board is accountable to between the running of the board and the our board and its committees and how shareholders for the groups financial and executive responsibility for the running of they operate is also set out in the Investor operational performance.
The board has identified Relations Corporate Governance section Responsibility for implementing certain matters which only it can approve.
We also explain further operational decisions and the day to day These are set out in a schedule of matters the respective roles of our Chairman, management of the business is delegated reserved for the board.
The Chairmans our Chief Executive, our Executive to the Chief Executive who is supported by and Chief Executives roles are separate Directors, our Non-Executive Directors, the Group Management Committee GMC.
and this division of responsibilities is clearly our Senior Independent Director and The GMC is supported by four established in a written statement.
sub-committees the Group Policy and Go online: www.
com investor governance Board Meetings Annual Agenda Plan Each year the board agrees an annual agenda plan designed to ensure that it has the right amount of time throughout the year to discuss all necessary matters.
In particular, the board has sought to ensure there is sufficient time to discuss strategy so that the Non-Executive Directors have a good opportunity to challenge and help develop strategy proposals.
Board Activities During the Year Our board usually meets formally six times a year.
During the year these meetings were held at various locations and additional activities were carried out as shown below.
Date of board meeting Location Additional activities 1st April 2015 Royston, UK Tour of Noble Metals plant 2nd June 2015 London, UK 21st July 2015 London, UK 29th September 2015 Chilton, UK Tour of Process Technologies site Strategy review session 17th November 2015 London, UK Fine Chemicals teach-in 2nd February 2016 London, UK Battery Technologies teach-in In addition to the above formal meetings, during the year board members participated in two scheduled board telephone conference calls.
The purpose of these was to give the Executive Directors the opportunity to update the Non-Executive Directors on key matters during the longer gaps between scheduled board meetings.
