101 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DURING THE YEAR WE CONTINUED TO PLAY A KEY ROLE IN MONITORING THE INTEGRITY OF THE GROUPS PUBLISHED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, ASSESSING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF ITS INTERNAL CONTROLS AND ENSURING THAT OUR EXTERNAL AUDITOR, KPMG, DELIVERS A HIGH QUALITY AND EFFECTIVE AUDIT.
Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present our report for the year ended 31st March 2016. which will further enhance how the board reviews principal risks, During the year, the committee has continued to play an important the associated mitigating controls and how the committee provides role in Johnson Mattheys governance landscape.
At each committee assurance to the board on the effectiveness of those controls.
meeting we spend a significant amount of time assessing the These new processes will bring further benefits as they become effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management firmly embedded in the year ahead.
This is particularly important during periods of change for Looking ahead to the next 12 months, as well as the business the business.
During the year, we focused some of our reviews on as usual work, we will continue to focus on the groups investment the risks and controls associated with the groups investment in in business information systems which will reach a crucial stage with business information systems.
We have an oversight role to play the first implementations planned during the year.
We will also work in ensuring that the potential benefits of this investment are not closely with the incoming Group Finance Director, when appointed, jeopardised by failure to properly identify and manage the risks to help ensure there is an effective induction.
Finally, towards the end associated with the implementation and upgrade of new and existing of the year, we will turn our attention to planning for the external audit systems.
Each year we look in depth at the control environment of tender which is intended to take place during 2017.
Planning this our individual divisions and this year we focused on Emission Control process well in advance will maximise our chances of the best Technologies ECT, with the Divisional Finance Director of that division outcome for our company.
Working with the board, we have looked at the risk management Read more about our risk processes on pages 28 and 29. processes across the group and at risk assurance mapping.
During the year the group refined and developed its risk management processes companies.
As a team we have a broad Role Composition range of knowledge, skills and experience Our principal role is to assist the board in Our committee currently comprises five gained from a variety of backgrounds as carrying out its oversight responsibilities in members, myself as Chairman and all of our detailed on pages 82 and 83.
This is essential relation to financial reporting, internal independent Non-Executive Directors.
to the effective discharging of our duties.
controls and risk management and in I have chaired the committee since 2011.
The board has agreed that I have maintaining an appropriate relationship with I am a Chartered Accountant with many recent and relevant financial experience our external auditor.
More details on our role years experience working in finance having as required by the provisions of the UK and responsibilities can be found in our been the Group Finance Director at Corporate Governance Code.
terms of reference which are available on Inchcape, BOC and at Lonmin Plc.
I also The secretary to the committee is the Investor Relations Corporate chair the audit committees of three other Simon Farrant, Company Secretary.
Governance section of our website.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 102 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee Meetings During the Year We met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible meetings % to committee to attend attended attended 1 Alan Ferguson 13th January 2011 5 5 100% Odile Desforges 1st July 2013 5 5 100% Colin Matthews 4th October 2012 5 5 100% Chris Mottershead 27th January 2015 5 5 100% Dorothy Thompson 1st September 2007 5 5 100% 1 Alan Ferguson was appointed Chairman of the committee on 19th July 2011.
Since the end of the year, the committee has met twice and all members attended.
In order for us to properly discharge our Reviewed management representation How we Discharged our role, it is critical that we have the opportunity letters requested by KPMG in respect of Responsibilities During the Year to openly discuss with management any the full year and half-yearly results prior to Our principal activities during the year, and up matter which falls within our remit and probe them being signed on behalf of the board.
to the date of this report, were as follows: and challenge where necessary.
The Chief Reviewed and assessed the process by Executive, the Group Finance Director and which management gave assurance that 1 Published Financial Information the Head of Corporate Assurance and Risk the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, Role: to monitor the integrity of the attend all of our meetings and other senior taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and reported financial information and to review managers attend when necessary.
There is understandable and provided the significant financial issues and judgments.
an open and constructive communication information necessary for shareholders between the committee and management.
Reviewed the groups full year results, to assess the companys position and In addition, our meetings are attended by half-yearly results and quarterly updates, performance, business model and the KPMG lead audit partner, Stephen Oxley, considered the significant accounting strategy.
Confirmed to the board that and other representatives from KPMG.
policies, principal estimates and we had done so and that the process Their attendance is important as it gives us accounting judgments used in their was satisfactory.
the opportunity to seek their independent preparation.
Received an update on new or and objective views on matters which they Considered the judgments and forthcoming accounting standards that encounter during their audit.
At least once a methodologies applied in determining could materially impact the group.
year, we meet separately with Stephen and the accounting treatment of the disposal with the Head of Corporate Assurance and of the Research Chemicals business Risk, who manages the internal audit and the restructuring programmes function, to give them the opportunity to carried out during the year.
discuss matters without executive Reviewed the matters and assumptions management being present.
which informed the boards assessment On a more frequent basis, I meet with that it was appropriate to prepare the the Group Finance Director, the Head of accounts on a going concern basis.
Corporate Assurance and Risk, other senior management and with KPMG.
These Reviewed and challenged the financial meetings often take place before committee modelling and stress testing based on meetings and this enables any issues or plausible scenarios arising from selected concerns to be raised at an early stage principal risks taken into account by thereby allowing me to ensure that the board in assessing the long term adequate time is devoted to them at the viability of the group.
Received and considered reports from KPMG on its audit of the full year results and its review of the half-yearly results.
103 Significant Issues Considered by the Committee in Relation to the Groups and Companys Accounts Ensuring the integrity of the accounts is fundamental to our remit.
In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas requiring the exercise by management of particular judgment or a high degree of estimation.
Our role is to assess whether the judgments and estimates made by management are reasonable and appropriate.
Set out below are what we consider to be the most significant accounting areas which required the exercise of judgment or a high degree of estimation during the year, together with details of how we addressed these.
These are all considered to be recurring issues.
Significant issue considered by the committee in relation to the accounts Work undertaken by the committee in forming an opinion Refining process and stock takes In order to satisfy ourselves on the robustness of the stock take When setting process loss provisions, key judgments are made in results and the adequacy of process loss provisions, we reviewed estimating the amount of precious metal that may be lost during the the results from the refinery stock takes together with explanatory refining and fabrication processes.
In addition, refining stock takes commentary from management which included whether these involve key judgments in estimating volumes of precious metal bearing results were in line with expectations and historic trends.
We also material in the refining system and the subsequent sampling and reviewed the results as a percentage of throughput.
assaying to assess the precious metal content note 41 on page 179.
The refining process and stock takes were also an area of focus for KPMG who reported its findings to us.
We considered whether the accounting treatment for refining stock take gains and losses was in accordance with agreed methodology and concurred with managements opinion that it was.
Impairment of goodwill, other intangibles and other assets The restructuring programmes described in more detail on page 59 Key judgments are made in relation to the assumptions used in carried out during the year resulted from the challenging conditions calculating discounted cash flow projections to value the cash in a number of our markets, particularly Process Technologies and generating units CGUs containing goodwill, to value other intangible New Businesses Fuel Cells.
These programmes indicated that assets not yet being amortised and to value other assets when there certain assets may be impaired.
Management then performed are indications that they may be impaired.
The key assumptions are impairment tests and found that this was the case for those assets managements estimates of budgets and plans for how the relevant described on page 59 and in note 5 on page 146.
We reviewed a businesses will develop or how the relevant assets will be used in report from management which explained the methodology used the future, as well as discount rates and long term average growth and the rationale for the assumptions.
We particularly focused on rates for each CGU notes 17 and 41 on pages 159, 160 and the market assumptions for the Fuel Cells business and Syngas and 179 respectively.
the upstream Diagnostic Services assets where the likely future market conditions are either not as favourable as previously assumed or have resulted in the businesses moving away from certain segments which has resulted in impairments and restructuring.
For ECT Korea we also examined the closure exit plans.
As part of the annual impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets not yet being amortised, we reviewed a report from management which explained the methodology used and the rationale for the assumptions made including explanations for any significant changes from those used in prior years.
All these annual impairment tests resulted in significant headroom over the carrying value of the relevant CGUs net assets.
The impairment reviews were also an area of focus for KPMG who reported its findings to us.
We concluded that managements key assumptions were reasonable.
Taxation We reviewed explanatory papers from management which Key judgments are made in arriving at managements best estimate included a review of the appropriateness of the tax provisions of the tax charge included in the accounts where the precise impact and relevant disclosures.
of tax laws and regulations is unclear note 41 on page 179.
KPMG also reported its findings in this area to us and we reviewed these.
We concluded that the judgments, estimates and disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
Post-employment benefits We reviewed the report from management summarising actuarial Key judgments are made in relation to the assumptions used valuations and key assumptions for the main post-employment when valuing post-employment benefits obligations note 15 benefit plans.
We compared these assumptions with those made by on pages 152 to 158. other companies and those used last year.
We also considered the opinions expressed by KPMG in this area.
We concluded that the assumptions used are appropriate for the groups post-employment benefit plans.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 104 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 2 Internal Control, Risk Management CORPORATE ASSURANCE AND RISK PLAN Systems and Internal Audit Role: to review the groups internal One of the cornerstones of our role in ensuring that the group has an effective control financial controls and its internal control environment is agreeing an annual internal audit plan which is risk based, comprehensive, and risk management systems and to well targeted and which provides the right level of assurance.
Each year we spend a monitor the effectiveness of the groups significant amount of time reviewing the detail of the proposed plan which is presented to internal audit function.
us by the Head of Corporate Assurance and Risk.
In particular we want to know the factors taken into account in devising the plan, the varying risk profile of auditable sites Received reports at every meeting from and businesses, the scope and depth of each type of audit and the plans coverage the Head of Corporate Assurance and across the group.
Although we want to know what is covered by the plan, it is just as Risk on: important for us to understand what is not covered by the plan, either by way of business Corporate assurance and risk reviews.
activity or geographic coverage, and where there is no coverage at certain sites or These reports summarised the number businesses we look at what other mechanisms are in place to check the adequacy of and type of internal audits and security controls, such as divisional management oversight or external audit activity.
In reviewing reviews undertaken during the period the 2016 17 plan we were pleased to see that it now incorporates a review of assurance and how this compared to the plan, activities connected with the groups principal risks at each site and business selected for the key findings of those audits and audit.
This means the audit will provide further assurance over our principal risks and this reviews, the number and nature of work is in addition to coverage of other financial and operational controls.
We believe the actions to address the findings and 2016 17 plan addresses Johnson Mattheys key risks and its coverage is right for the size progress made by management in and nature of the group and on that basis we approved the plan.
During the year we paid particular attention to Monitored the effectiveness of the Undertook a detailed review of the control the level of engagement of all our Corporate Assurance and Risk function.
The Divisional managers, whether at local, divisional Last year we reported on the Finance Director attended one of our or executive level, in implementing reorganisation of the function to ensure meetings, giving us an opportunity to corrective actions and in strengthening delivery of a high quality, efficient and learn more about ECTs key financial risks the control framework across all our independent audit and this year has seen and how these were being managed.
In sites, irrespective of location, size and the changes being fully embedded.
We particular, he talked to us about the main activity.
At each meeting we tracked pay close attention to the resourcing of themes arising from the key control progress in completing open actions the function knowing that the calibre, questionnaire process and from KPMGs and challenged management if we had knowledge and experience of individual 2014 15 audit.
This gave us an any concerns that actions were not auditors are critical to achieving an opportunity to understand better the being dealt with in a timely manner.
We continually assess control weaknesses in the division and to Key control questionnaire.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the function.
seek assurance on the progress of actions a report at our May 2016 meeting on At each meeting the Head of Corporate being taken to address them.
He also the key control questionnaire process Assurance and Risk is present and we briefed us on how the division approaches for the year ended 31st March 2016. have the opportunity to probe and risk management as well as presenting the This questionnaire, which forms an challenge her, we receive regular reports divisions high performance finance important part of our overall assurance from her as noted above and we seek the roadmap, which is part of a groupwide programme, is a bottom up process views of managers and also of KPMG, all programme to further develop the by which managers across all our of whom have frequent contact with the effectiveness of the finance function.
businesses are required to certify the function.
We also pay attention to whether existence and effectiveness of certain Reviewed reports from the Group Legal the function has adequate standing across key controls within their areas of Director on litigation and on the speak up the group and is free from management responsibility.
We assessed the whistleblowing procedures.
In particular or other restrictions.
As Chairman of the effectiveness of the process and we we heard about enhancements made to committee I occasionally meet with the evaluated the nature and quality of speak up procedures during the year, Corporate Assurance and Risk team and responses, the level of challenge to the including the introduction of a new case will be doing so again during 2016 17. responses, significant findings and management system and a new how management intended to address Reviewed systems and controls investigation process.
Both of these are any unsatisfactory findings.
We were associated with the groups continued designed to ensure that speak up cases pleased with improvements made investment in business information are managed consistently and efficiently during the year which resulted in it systems.
The Finance and Business across the group.
We asked for certain being a much more inclusive process.
Systems Improvements Director attended refinements to be made to the reporting two of our meetings during the year to talk format to give us greater visibility of the Risk management processes.
to us about the implementation of these nature of cases raised, on how they were Working with the board, the risk systems with particular focus on key investigated and on the conclusions of the assurance processes were reviewed project milestones, challenges and risks investigations.
These refinements will be and refined.
We concentrate primarily and how these were being managed.
on the mitigating controls and the Update reports were provided at other levels of assurance over these.
meetings therefore enabling us to keep in The corporate assurance and risk Read more on page 70. close touch with the projects.
A lead plan for 2016 17 is focused on partner from the independent programme this area see above right.
assurance provider, KPMG, also attended Reviewed the risk management and Monitored progress against the 2015 16 two of our meetings to share his views on control statements in the Annual Report corporate assurance and risk plan and how well the projects were being and Accounts before they were agreed the 2016 17 corporate assurance managed, including from a risk and approved by the board.
105 3 External Auditor Role: to ensure an appropriate relationship with the external auditor, to monitor its independence and objectivity, negotiate and approve its fees, and to ensure it delivers an effective high quality audit.
Reviewed KPMGs performance and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
HOW WE REVIEW KPMGS PERFORMANCE AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS Towards the end of the 2015 16 external audit, a feedback questionnaire was circulated to the executive directors and senior management.
They were asked to rate how satisfied they were with KPMG, including its level of planning and coordination, ability to meet delivery dates and objectives, industry specialist knowledge, preparedness and organisation, ability to firmly challenge management, independence, level and quality of communication and value for money.
We examined the results of this questionnaire with a particular focus on areas which had been identified in the prior years review as requiring improvement.
The results showed an overall level of satisfaction with KPMG and that action had been taken on last years points.
There are still areas where improvements can be made and at our next meeting, Stephen Oxley, our lead audit partner, will explain how he intends to adapt the audit approach for the current year to take into account the findings and we will ensure that any relevant issues are picked up when we review the proposed external audit plan later this year.
On a continuous basis throughout the year we look at the quality of KPMGs reports and the performance of Stephen Oxley both in and outside of committee meetings.
We pay particular attention to the way Stephen and the team interact with and challenge management as well as the effectiveness of the relationship between the internal and external audit teams.
We also obtain feedback from the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group Reporting Controller, all of whom have extensive interactions with KPMG.
As noted earlier, I have regular one to one update meetings with Stephen to discuss not only agenda items but any other matters which either Stephen or I feel are relevant.
We also reviewed the FRC Audit Quality Inspection Report issued in May 2015 on KPMG.
We obtained feedback from Stephen on how KPMG was addressing the FRCs findings and received his assurance that any findings which could be relevant to the conduct of the Johnson Matthey audit would be picked up during future audits.
We also discussed with KPMG their internal quality review processes.
Following the above, we concluded that KPMG continues to provide an effective audit and therefore we recommended to the board its reappointment for 2016 17.
A resolution proposing its reappointment is included in the notice of the 2016 AGM.
Took steps to ensure that external considering for approval the reviewing the procedures followed auditor objectivity and independence engagement of KPMG to provide by KPMG to safeguard its objectivity were safeguarded.
We did this by: non-audit services above certain and independence.
We received monetary thresholds, as set out in confirmation from KPMG that it was reviewing compliance against our the policy see page 106.
During the compliant with APB Ethical Standards policy on the provision of non-audit year I approved the engagement of in relation to the audit engagement: services and considered the KPMG to provide non-audit services continued appropriateness of this approving, after due challenge and on various matters and the committee policy.
We concluded that the policy discussion, KPMGs proposed terms approved the engagement of KPMG remained fit for purpose and no of engagement, audit plan and fees to provide independent programme changes were needed although the for 2015 16: and assurance in relation to the policy will be reviewed in the light of considering the timing for putting implementation of new business the EU Audit Directive and EU Audit our external audit out to tender.
This followed Regulation as well as the FRCs a tender process in which three Revised Ethical Standard 2016, all of providers put forward proposals.
which come into force in June 2016: A panel, led by the Head of Read more about our policy on the reviewing details of the non-audit Corporate Assurance and Risk, provision of non-audit services, the services provided by KPMG and evaluated the proposals and external audit, audit plan and our associated fees.
Non-audit fees in obtained external references.
approach to external audit tendering the year were 0.6 million compared Taking into account factors such as on page 106. to audit fees of 2.0 million.
The knowledge, expertise, experience, non-audit fees predominantly practical approach, value for money comprised expenditure on the and the fact that synergies could be provision of independent programme obtained through its appointment, assurance as discussed in more the panel recommended the detail in the paragraph below, and appointment of KPMG.
A detailed direct and indirect tax compliance report on the tender process was and advisory services.
We challenged the information on fees incurred by decision making process and KPMG for non-audit services, as well satisfied ourselves that this as the split between KPMGs audit appointment did not compromise and non-audit fees, can be found in auditor independence and objectivity.
note 7 on the accounts, page 147: Following discussion, we approved the appointment of KPMG: Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 106 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDIT PLAN OUR POLICY ON THE PROVISION OF NON-AUDIT SERVICES SUMMARY The external audit plan for 2015 16 was presented by the lead audit partner at our November 2015 meeting.
The plan set out Audit related services KPMG can be invited to provide KPMGs audit approach including materiality set at 5% of profit services which, in its position as auditor, it must or is best before tax, scoping 86% of group sales excluding precious placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating to metals : 85% of profit before tax and 84% of total assets and borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, various other key audit risks.
The actual scoping percentages as set out in regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and the Independent Auditors Report on page 184 are not materially disposals.
different to those agreed in the plan.
In assessing adequacy of Tax compliance and advice KPMG may provide such coverage we also looked at local materiality levels, whether local services where it is best suited, otherwise the work must be statutory accounts were to be signed off and the number of site put out to tender.
visits to be carried out by the group audit team.
In deriving the key audit risks, KPMG considered the internal and external Other services these may not be provided where precluded factors impacting the group, the groups own risk assessment by ethical standards or where it is believed the objectivity and and its main developments and priorities.
These were then independence of KPMG would be compromised.
discussed with divisional and group management and translated Should non-audit services be provided in accordance with the into audit risks which shaped the audit approach.
A new aspect of above, the policy sets out how approval should be obtained prior this approach is that the audit will start to focus on the controls to KPMG being engaged.
Services likely to cost 25,000 or less design and implementation plans for the business information should be approved by the Group Finance Director, services likely to systems which will start to be implemented during 2016 17.
In cost more than 25,000 but 100,000 or less should be approved line with the prior year, four key audit risks were identified which by myself as Chairman and services likely to cost over 100,000 are referred to in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 182 must be approved by the committee.
Following discussion we concluded that the proposed The policy also sets out the circumstances in which a former plan was sufficiently comprehensive for the purpose employee of KPMG can be employed by Johnson Matthey and of the audit of the groups accounts.
the procedure for obtaining approval for such employment.
Our Approach to External Audit Statement of Compliance I reviewed and summarised the Tendering The committee confirms that, during the responses and presented them for KPMG and its predecessor entities has financial year ended 31st March 2016, discussion at a committee meeting.
been our external auditor since 1986 the company complied with the applicable The responses were positive with just following a full tendering process in 1985. provisions of the Competition and Markets two areas highlighted for improvement.
We have undertaken a review of KPMGs Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for The first was in further enhancing our performance every year since then.
Stephen Large Companies Market Investigation understanding of assurance levels over Oxley, our current lead audit partner, was Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender principal risks.
Significant progress has appointed in 2013 14 and each year since Processes and Audit Committee been made in this area in the last year then he has taken steps to refresh KPMGs Responsibilities Order 2014. but there is more to do.
The 2016 17 approach to certain aspects of its audit.
corporate assurance and risk plan, with 4 Other Activities As disclosed in last years annual its increased coverage of assurance Received a report from the Group report, it remains our intention to put the activities associated with principal risks, Finance Director on the status of the external audit out to tender during the will help us to improve in this area.
The groups high performance finance current lead audit partners five year tenure, second area, which is an area of focus programme and on the groups finance at a time which is right for Johnson Matthey.
for me as Chairman of the committee, is strategy, particularly how it would We do not propose to carry out an external to ensure engagement and support delivery of the groups strategy.
audit tender during 2016 17 as we are understanding on more technical matters satisfied with the work KPMG is carrying from those committee members who do Reviewed reports from the Group out on behalf of our shareholders, and to not have detailed financial expertise.
Treasurer on credit controls and tender whilst awaiting the appointment credit risks.
Reviewed and approved the draft Audit of a new Group Finance Director would be Committee Report for 2015 16.
Reviewed our performance and inappropriate.
The lead audit partners term effectiveness during 2015 16.
Our review Received reports on, and monitored, key will expire after completion of the 2017 18 took the form of a questionnaire circulated governance and regulatory developments.
audit and so it is intended to put the to all committee members, as well as external audit out to tender during 2017 others who regularly attend committee so that the process is completed by meetings, seeking their views on matters 1st April 2018.
This approach is in line with such as the adequacy of the agenda, EU legislation which comes into force on the efficiency of meetings and on the 17th June 2016.
Under EU transitional interaction with Corporate Assurance arrangements, KPMGs last possible audit and Risk and KPMG.
of our group would be for the year ending 31st March 2020.
107 Our Priorities In last years annual report we set out our priorities for 2015 16.
Below we report on the status of these and set out our priorities for 2016 17.
2015 16 Comments Increased focus on assurance mapping across the group and Significant progress made as noted above.
on reviewing the mitigating controls over the groups principal risks and assessing the level of assurance being provided.
Consider the implications for the committee of the 2014 Reviewed in conjunction with the board.
changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to risk management and internal controls.
Look more closely at risks and controls associated with the Two presentations were made to the committee on the investment groups continued investment in business information systems.
Cyber security is reviewed by the board.
2016 17 Continue to monitor progress of the investment in business information systems.
Work closely with the incoming Group Finance Director, when appointed, to help ensure a successful induction to the business, including supporting the business if there is a gap between Den Jones leaving and a new Group Finance Director being appointed.
Start the detailed planning for the external audit tender which is intended to be undertaken in 2017.
On behalf of the Audit Committee: Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
