85 GETTING TO KNOW THE BUSINESS In order for our directors, particularly our Whilst the majority of our board In addition to the above, our Non-Executive Directors, to effectively meetings are held at our London office Non-Executive Directors undertake discharge their responsibilities, it is in the UK, the board holds two board visits to our sites independent of the critical that they understand our meetings each year at one or more of Executive Directors, either individually business.
At each board meeting the our other sites.
Site visits are always or collectively, to further enhance their board undertakes a strategic review of undertaken and presentations are given knowledge and understanding They one or more of our divisions, either by management on the business, its also meet with management and other focusing on the whole division or various challenges and successes.
During the year, for example, businesses within it.
These sessions are enable the board to see our operations Tim Stevenson, Alan Ferguson, Odile attended by the relevant division director on the ground and to meet the teams Desforges and Colin Matthews visited and, where appropriate, other divisional that are making them successful.
our PT facility in Savannah, US to hear senior management.
The sessions give They are also a useful opportunity for more about the operation of the site the board an excellent opportunity to the board to hear about environment, and its business.
hear about, discuss and challenge the health and safety developments as well Each year our Chairman, strategic direction of our business.
as the business sustainability and Tim Stevenson, attends our annual Throughout the year the board also manufacturing efforts.
During 2015 16, Investor Day to hear first hand from reviews our key functional areas.
These board meetings were held at our our investors.
Tim and the majority reviews are attended by the relevant manufacturing site at Royston, UK of our Non-Executive Directors also functional head and, where appropriate, April 2015 and at our R&D facility at attended the 2015 company conference other senior functional management.
At which gave them an opportunity to get They enable the board to assess the Royston the board visited our Precious a feel for the groups culture and hear strength of these functions in their Metal Products Division to learn more more about the groups priorities in ability to support delivery of the groups about the individual businesses which action, and meet a range of employees strategic objectives.
make up our Noble Metals business across all our divisions and functions.
During 2015 16, we introduced including metal processing, nitro All of the above activities help business teach-ins for our board.
technologies, gauze manufacturing, to provide the board with a sound These are half day sessions, separate 3D printing and industrial products.
understanding and knowledge of our from board meetings, which are At Chilton, the board visited some of the group which supports it in its role to attended by a range of managers businesses in our Process Technologies provide entrepreneurial leadership and from the relevant business.
Areas of focus during this set strategy.
designed to give the board a more in tour included process risk management, depth insight into our business than Chemical Catalysts and technologies.
is possible during board meetings.
This deeper understanding of the business enhances the Non-Executive Directors ability to challenge, debate and contribute to divisional strategy at Investor Day Board and Feedback board meetings.
Two teach-ins were Committee Meetings held during the year Fine Chemicals November 2015 and Battery Technologies New Businesses Facility Tours February 2016.
Divisional and GETTING Functional TO KNOW THE Reviews BUSINESS Divisional Teach-ins Meeting our People Company Conference Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
