95 Future Review The board considers that their skills, closely monitored.
In addition to the annual The boards intention remains to undertake experience, independence and knowledge budgeting process, there is a ten year an externally facilitated evaluation process of the company enable them to discharge strategy review process.
at least every three years.
In the intervening their respective duties and responsibilities years, the review will be led by the Chairman effectively.
Biographical details of each of Read more about our five divisions supported by the committee chairs and the the directors standing for re-election can on pages 44 to 62.
Our 2016 AGM circular details why Review of the Chairmans Risk Management and the board believes each director should be Performance re-elected based on continued satisfactory Internal Control performance in the role.
In the circular, the The Non-Executive Directors recognise The board is ultimately responsible for Chairman confirms to shareholders that, that the Chairmans effectiveness is vital maintaining sound risk management and following formal performance evaluation, to that of the board.
Led by Alan Ferguson, internal control systems including financial the performance of each Non-Executive the Senior Independent Director, the controls, controls in respect of the financial Director continues to be effective and that Non-Executive Directors are responsible for reporting process and controls of an they demonstrate commitment to the role performance evaluation of the Chairman operational and compliance nature.
including commitment of time for board and for providing a fair and balanced The companys internal control systems and board committee meetings.
are on a groupwide basis and the review of In April 2016, the Non-Executive their effectiveness including of the application Directors, led by Alan, met without Tim of the Guidance on Risk Management, REMUNERATION Stevenson being present to discuss Tims Internal Control and Related Financial and performance.
Key considerations were his Business Reporting issued by the FRC in The board has established a Remuneration overall leadership of the board, the setting September 2014 FRC Guidance is Committee.
The composition of the of tone, the setting of appropriate agendas implemented and reported from a groupwide Remuneration Committee is set out in and the effectiveness of structuring and perspective, covering the company and its the Annual Report on Remuneration facilitating discussions.
There are no material joint pages 108 to 126, which describes the Executive Directors were also taken into ventures or associates which have not been work of the Remuneration Committee in account.
Alan subsequently reported the dealt with as part of the group for the discharging its responsibilities.
outcome to the board that Tims leadership purposes of applying the FRC Guidance.
of the board continued to be effective and Our risk management systems and engendered openness and constructive internal control systems are designed to ACCOUNTABILITY challenge of the board.
meet the groups needs and to manage the risks to which it is exposed, including Financial and Business Review of Executive Director the risks of failure to achieve business Reporting Performance objectives and of material misstatement or loss.
However, such risks cannot be In its reporting to shareholders the board The Chairman met with the Non-Executive eliminated.
Our systems can only provide recognises its responsibility to present a fair, Directors without the Executive Directors reasonable, but not absolute, assurance.
balanced and understandable assessment being present in November 2015 in order to They can never completely protect against of the groups position and prospects.
This review the Executive Directors performance.
such factors as unforeseeable events, responsibility covers the annual report and human fallibility or fraud.
accounts and extends to half year and other Annual Re-Election of Directors The board confirms that there is an price sensitive public reports and reports to In accordance with the Code, all directors ongoing process in place established in regulators as well as to information required retire at each Annual General Meeting AGM accordance with the FRC Guidance for by statutory requirements.
and offer themselves for re-election by identifying, evaluating and managing the The directors are responsible for shareholders.
principal risks faced by the group.
This preparing this annual report and consider it, As announced on 3rd February 2016, process is regularly reviewed by the GMC, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and Dorothy Thompson will be retiring from the the board and the Audit Committee as understandable and provides the information board with effect from the close of the AGM appropriate and has been in place during necessary for shareholders to assess the and therefore will not be offering herself for the year and up to the date of approval of companys position and performance, re-election.
As announced on 2nd March 2016, The board is responsible for determining The group reports the results of its five Den Jones will step down as Group Finance the nature and extent of the principal risks it is divisions: Emission Control Technologies, Director and from the board over the summer willing to take in achieving its strategic Process Technologies, Precious Metal this year.
Den is therefore seeking re-election.
The boards view of Johnson Products, Fine Chemicals and New At the 2016 AGM, all other directors Mattheys key strategic and operating risks Businesses.
The divisions are all separately will be offering themselves for re-election.
and how the company seeks to manage managed but each reports to the board As announced on 1st June 2016 those risks is set out in this report.
The GMC reviews Dr Jane Griffiths will be appointed to the The directors confirm that they have monthly summaries of financial results from board as a Non-Executive Director with carried out a robust assessment of the each division through a standardised effect from 1st January 2017.
As required principal risks facing the company, including reporting process.
Forecasts are prepared by our Articles of Association, she will retire those that would threaten its business model, monthly throughout the year and the group at the AGM in 2017 and then offer herself future performance, solvency or liquidity.
has a comprehensive annual budgeting and for election.
planning process including plans for the We have five Non-Executive Directors, Read more about our principal risks following two years.
Budgets are approved all of whom are determined by the board to by the board.
Variances from budget are and how they are being managed be independent directors in accordance or mitigated on pages 28 to 35. with the criteria set out in the Code.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
