Governance Corporate governance Role of the Board and Committees Board The Board focuses its time and energy on Group strategy, the annual budget and performance against it, significant acquisitions, monitoring the performance of the management team and risk management, specifically focusing on principal risks and the overall system of internal control.
The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to the Executive Leadership Team ELT and the Board Committees the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Safety, Assurance & Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Business Ethics Committee Monitors and reviews Responsible for compliance Advises the Board on executive the structure, size and with financial reporting remuneration and sets the Responsible for the Groups composition of the Board, standards, consideration of packages of each of the safety strategy and performance makes recommendations with the internal financial control executive directors within the and for ensuring compliance regard to any changes and environment and the relationship approved Remuneration Policy.
with laws and regulations ensures board succession with the external auditor.
Read more on page 37 Read more on page 38 Read more on page 39 Read more on page 45 Executive Leadership Team The ELT operates under the authority of the Chief Executive and comprises the Group CFO plus the CEOs of our three BUs and the leaders of our other key functional areas: HSSEA: People & Organisation: Strategy & Development.
They are responsible for delivering against the strategy approved by the Board.
Read more on page 32 Board and Committee attendance 2016 The Charters of the Boards Committees are available on the Groups website.
Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is summarised in the table below.
The dates of future Board meetings have now been agreed until the end of 2019.
Read the Charters of the Boards Committees at: www.
com charters AGM Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Safety, Assurance & Nomination Audit Remuneration Board Business Ethics Committee Committee Committee Committee Ian Marchant 6 6 3 3 Robin Watson 6 6 4 4 David Kemp 6 6 Thomas Botts 5 6 3 4 3 3 1 2 Jann Brown 6 6 3 3 4 4 2 2 Jacqui Ferguson 1 1 0 0 Richard Howson 4 4 2 2 1 1 Mary Shafer-Malicki 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 Jeremy Wilson 6 6 3 3 4 4 4 4 David Woodward 2 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 Attendance reflects the meetings attended as a proportion of those held while in office or a member of the relevant committee appointed 1 December 2016 | appointed 12 May 2016 | resigned 12 May 2016 34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board programme & agenda Board composition The Board comprised eight directors for the majority of the year The Board schedules four face to face meetings and two calls on increasing to nine from 1 December 2016, following the appointment an annual basis.
In 2016, following feedback received from the of Jacqui Ferguson.
In May 2016 Richard Howson joined the Board and Board two of the face to face meetings were extended to three David Woodward retired.
Following David Woodwards retirement, Jann days.
Within the face to face meetings, the following are covered as Brown became Senior Independent Director.
At all times the standing agenda items: non-executive directors comprised a majority of the Board excluding Review of Governance and reports from Board Committees the Chair as recommended by the Governance Code.
Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics, Audit, Remuneration and A clear separation of the roles of the Chair and the Chief Executive the Chief Executive report has been agreed by the Board, in compliance with the Governance Operations updates and functional updates Code.
The Chair is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of HSSEA, P&O, IT&S and Finance including Acquisitions, the Board.
He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate and is responsible for facilitating that all directors actively Tax & Treasury and Investor Relations contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The Chief The Board also receives presentations from management and Executive is responsible for the day to day management of the Group discusses other matters arising which are set out in the table below.
and implementation of the Groups strategy.
He develops proposals for Board approval, and ensures that a regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
Members of the Executive Leadership Team report directly to the Chief Executive.
Topic Activity Outcome Progress Strategy Received regular updates on the Group The reorganisation and repositioning of the Group was completed during reorganisation throughout the year the year.
This met the objective of moving to One Wood Group defined by service provision which increases the Groups effectiveness by enabling Refreshed Group vision and strategy discussed at easier customer engagement and improving efficiency.
Thomas Botts the August meeting acted as a board sponsor to the project team Full day strategy session held prior to the Strategy approved by the Board November board meetings The Board received presentations on all 11 service lines including deep dives on three and the board provided input into the direction and strategy of these businesses Safety, Updates on the activities of the Safety, Assurance Good progress made on extending the scope of the Committee in 2016 to Assurance and & Business Ethics Committee received at each include Business Ethics Business Ethics meeting Monitoring of the Gulf of Mexico regulatory compliance plan and actions Reports received directly from the Chief Executive to ensure compliance with the administrative agreement and prevent and senior management at each meeting on recurrence specific compliance related matters Significant focus on two regulatory investigations involving operations in the Gulf of Mexico Review of Review of preliminary results statement, annual Reports reviewed, challenged and approved for release Financial report and half year report Results Risk Review of Group risk register, principal risks and Updated principal risks included in annual and half year reports management associated controls and assurance provision Internal controls agreed to have operated effectively during the year and internal reviewed in February and August.
control Review and challenge of managements conclusions on the effectiveness of internal control Governance Received update on the new Market Abuse Internal policies and procedures updated including new share dealing Regulations MAR code.
Directors and ELT reminded of their obligations and informed of the additional MAR requirements Reviewed the Audit Committees recommendation to change external auditors following the audit Approved appointment of KPMG as external auditors from 2018, subject tender process to shareholder approval at the May 2018 AGM.
The Group is compliant with EU audit regulations and best practice on external audit rotation The Board participated in a Board evaluation process, externally facilitated by Lintstock, and The Board noted a general improvement in the results of the evaluations reviewed the output from that process at the and good progress had been made on addressing the points raised last November meeting year.
The observations noted in this years review would be taken into account when planning the 2017 board sessions John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 Governance | Corporate governance Topic Activity Outcome Progress People and Reviewed succession plans in place for the ELT The Board noted improvement in the succession planning process for Succession and other key positions in the Group senior executives, and key areas where succession plans require to be planning strengthened Following the scheduled retirement of David Woodward the nomination committee considered Richard Howson and Jacqui Ferguson were added to the Board who the need to add to the Board and the skill sets that brought specialist insight into the contracting and IT sectors respectively would increase its overall effectiveness Board Regular reports received from the Group CFO on We provide the opportunity for significant shareholders to meet with the engagement IR activities, supplemented by analysis provided Chief Executive and Group CFO at least twice a year around the interim with by our brokers and final results announcements shareholders The Board seeks to understand the views of During the year the opportunity to meet with the Chair was offered to shareholders and take these into account where significant shareholders.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee also appropriate consulted with significant shareholders on proposals for the updated Remuneration Policy The Chair, Senior Independent Director and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee make themselves available to meet with key shareholders Board independence Engagement with shareholders After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its non-executive Our investor relations activities are led by the Chief Executive and directors to be independent in character and judgement and that there Group CFO, supported by the investor relations team and other are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or members of senior management as appropriate.
We provide the could appear to affect, their judgement.
opportunity for significant shareholders to meet with the Chief Executive and Group CFO at least twice a year around the interim and For brief biographies of the directors: See pages 32-33 final results announcements.
Major shareholdings Board re-election The Company has been notified, in accordance with DTR 5, of the All directors are expected to seek re-election at the 2017 AGM.
following major shareholdings in the Company as of 24 February 2017: Conflicts of interest Name of Number of voting % of issue The Board requires directors to declare any appointments or other shareholder rights held shares situations which would amount to a possible conflict of interest.
The Board has procedures in place to deal with and, if necessary, Aberdeen Asset Management 38,048,880 9.99% approve any such conflicts.
BlackRock, Inc. 33,260,176 8.72% Ameriprise Financial 19,812,908 5.20% Board development FIL Limited 19,179,837 5.03% The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings provided on issues relating to corporate APG Asset Management N. V. 18,914,688 4.96% governance.
Arrangements are in place for newly appointed directors Schroder Investments 17,629,286 4.63% to undertake an induction process designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups business.
This includes briefing sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to Group operating sites and discussion of relevant business issues.
Upon their appointment, directors are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations as directors of a listed company and under the Companies Act 2006.
All directors are encouraged to attend relevant external seminars.
There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that the Boards procedures are followed.
36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee The Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups management of Health, Safety, Security, Environmental and Business ethics issues, in line with the Groups shared values commitment.
The primary focus of the committee is to ensure that risks associated with matters relating to HSSE and Business Ethics are understood and managed and oversight is provided to systems and assurance activities that are in place to minimise the occurrence of major events.
Main responsibilities are to review and make recommendations to the Board regarding: X The Groups HSSE and Business Ethics strategy and performance X The effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems, and evidence of a prevalent safety and ethical culture X HSSE and Business Ethics leadership development throughout the Group, particularly in frontline operations Thomas Botts Chair, Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee X The quality and integrity of the Groups internal and external reporting of HSSE and Business Ethics performance and issues The key area of focus in 2016 X The Groups preparedness for response to a major HSSE incident or ethics non-compliance was understanding and managing X The process for, and outcomes of, investigations into major HSSE risk and establishing a robust and Business Ethics incidents and the effectiveness with which recommendations are assimilated throughout the Group assurance programme.
X The expertise and appropriateness of the structure of the HSSEA and Business Ethics function throughout the Group It was decided to include Business Ethics as part of the Committee's remit in 2016 as part of the Groups drive to extend the understanding of business ethics through wider engagement with the workforce.
The extension of the Board Committee introduced a higher level of Membership & Responsibilities governance for any matters concerning major regulatory investigations The Committee comprises Thomas Botts, Chair, or significant breaches of a compliance nature.
Mary Shafer-Malicki and Richard Howson.
The Chief Executive and Executive Director of HSSEA are also in attendance.
The key area of focus in 2016 was understanding and managing risk and establishing a robust assurance programme.
In addition, The Committee meets at least twice a year, and has written terms the Committee provided significant focus on two regulatory of reference setting out its responsibilities.
investigations involving operations in the Gulf of Mexico on which Read the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee charter at: plea agreements were reached in February 2017.
com ethicscommittee input on the associated compliance plan and actions to prevent recurrence.
The Committee introduced two performance dashboards in 2016 to provide oversight on performance against the established key performance indicators.
Main responsibilities: Safety & assurance strategy and performance Effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems Safety leadership development throughout the Group Quality and integrity of the Groups internal and external reporting of Safety & Assurance performance and issues Preparedness for response to a major HSSE incident or ethics non-compliance Committee meetings in 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Governance | Corporate governance | Nomination Committee Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee monitors and reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, makes recommendations with regard to any changes and ensuring board succession plans are in place.
The Committee met in February 2016 to consider the retirement of David Woodward and the arrangements for his succession.
It was agreed that Jann Brown would become the Senior Independent Director and would join the Remuneration Committee and that Jeremy Wilson would take over as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
It was also agreed that Thomas Botts would join the Audit Committee.
In March 2016 the Committee met to consider and recommend the appointment of Richard Howson as a non-executive director.
Richard is currently Chief Executive of Carillion Plc and his extensive experience of leading an international contracting business will further strengthen the board.
The knowledge that Richard brings from the construction and civil engineering sectors will give valuable insight to the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee, which he joined Ian Marchant Chair, Nomination Committee after his appointment.
In October 2016 the Committee met to consider and recommend the appointment of Jacqui Ferguson as a non-executive director.
The Nomination Committee Jacqui is currently SVP & General Manager of Hewlett Packard UKI & continues to make good progress MEMA.
Her experience as a leader in the technology sector will further strengthen the Board as we seek to harness the use of technology to in adding complementary new skill drive efficiency, finding innovative ways to provide greater value to our sets to the Board.
customers and ensuring that Wood Group continues to succeed in the digital economy.
For both of the above appointments the Group used the services of Korn Ferry, an executive search agency.
Both new directors were provided with an induction on joining the Board which covered their duties and responsibilities, as well as a general introduction to the Group and its extended leadership team.
Membership and responsibilities The Nomination Committee comprises the Chair and all of the Committee evaluation independent non-executive directors.
In the final quarter of the year the Committee assessed its own The Committee meets at least once a year, and met three times in performance as part of the wider board review.
It operates within a written charter setting out its roles and externally facilitated by Lintstock.
Overall it was felt that good progress responsibilities.
had been made in broadening the skill set of the board as a whole.
Read the Nomination Committee charter at: The Committee is cognisant of the Governance Codes requirement www.
com nominationcommittee to pay due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender when conducting a search for board candidates.
Wood Group is committed to remaining an equal opportunities employer.
Main responsibilities: Reviewing Board structure, size and composition Making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes Identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board Filling Board vacancies Ensuring succession plans are in place.
Committee meetings in 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 38 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee The Committee met four times in 2016.
In addition to the members of the committee, the Group CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors,  LLP PwC, attended all Audit Committee meetings.
During the year other relevant people from the business presented to the Committee on the topics as noted below.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and PwC have the right of direct access to the Chair of the Committee at all times, and to meet the Committee without management present.
During the year the following areas were discussed at the Committee meetings.
Q1 X Review of the 2015 Group financial statements including Going Concern review X Review of 2015 external audit status, discussion of the findings of Jann Brown Chair, Audit Committee the external audit and the key judgemental areas and assessment of external audit effectiveness X Review of the 2015 Audit Committee Corporate Governance Report It is important that the Audit X Review of alternative profit measures Committee continues to foster X Update on the external audit tendering process X Review of internal audit reports and status an open and transparent culture between it and management, its Q2 auditors, the investment community X Update on the group restructure and impact on segmental reporting and broader stakeholders.
X Accounts receivable update including presentation from the ALCS East CFO X Effectiveness reviews of internal and external audit X Review of external audit tender submissions and presentation to the Membership and responsibilities Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Jann Brown Chair, recent X Outline external audit plan for 2016 and relevant financial expertise, Jeremy Wilson, Thomas Botts X Update on US controls internal audit work and from 1 December 2016 Jacqui Ferguson.
The Chair of the X Review of internal audit reports and status Committee reports to each Board meeting on the activity of the Committee.
The Committee has a written charter of responsibilities which is Q3 reviewed on an annual basis, setting out its roles and responsibilities.
X Review of the 2016 Group interim financial statements including Going Concern review Read the Audit Committee charter at: www.
com auditcommittee X Update on 2016 interim financial statements external review and discussion of key judgemental areas and findings of external auditor X Update from Group Head of Internal Audit on the way forward for Main responsibilities: risk management, assurance and internal audit Compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial X Presentation from the Group Head of Tax and Treasury on current reporting requirements tax issues Consideration of the internal financial and IT control environment X Review of internal audit reports and status Consideration of the internal audit programme and results Review of the external audit relationship and provision of non-audit Q4 services X Review of upcoming year end issues X Review of final 2016 external audit plan and approval of fees Committee meetings in 2016 X Review and approval of 2017 Internal Audit Plan X Presentation from the ALCS West CFO on the close out of the US controls internal audit actions Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec X Review of appropriate cash generating units CGUs for goodwill 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 impairment testing X Review of internal audit reports and status John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Governance | Corporate governance | Audit Committee X Review of provisions During the year the Committee focused The Committee considers the appropriateness, adequacy and on the following areas: consistency of approach to provisioning at each meeting.
All material provisions, including those made against uninsured legal claims and Financial reporting and significant accounting issues doubtful debts, are discussed and challenged.
Given the continued There were no new accounting standards which had a material impact uncertain economic climate for the oil and gas companies which form on the Group during the year, and the Committee focused on the the core customer base of the Group, there was a focus in the year application of our accounting policies and on the areas of judgement on the recoverability of receivables and on the processes in place to and estimation.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the assess and monitor credit risk.
adoption of IFRS 15 'Revenue from contracts with customers' and the output from that review will be considered by the Committee in X External reporting of non GAAP measures 2017, before the standard becomes effective in 2018.
Although the In line with other companies in the sector and historical practice the Group is not yet in a position to quantify the impact of any changes, its Group has, in addition to statutory measures, reported profit using EBITA, current assessment is that the adoption of the standard will not have a a non GAAP measure.
Although the Group believes that EBITA remains significant impact on its reported results.
a relevant metric and was the principle measure of profit used internally The primary areas of judgement and estimation considered by the during 2016, it was agreed during that year that from 2017 the Group will Committee in relation to the 2016 financial statements and how they drop EBITA from external reporting and provide only measures included were addressed are outlined below.
This will bring a greater level of simplicity to reporting and remove the need for additional reconciliations.
X Impairment reviews At both the half year and the year end the Committee considered Internal financial control where indicators of impairment existed and the results of any related The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal impairment reviews.
Annual reviews are carried out in relation to control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee has goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, with the committees been given the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal role being primarily to challenge the significant assumptions and financial and IT control systems implemented by management.
This work estimates made to ensure that they are fit for purpose.
During 2016 is informed by regular updates from the Group Head of Internal Audit the restructuring of the Group meant that the CGUs used to test and the results of various self-assessment processes undertaken across goodwill required to be adjusted.
The Committee reviewed the revised the Group.
External audit also provide feedback on areas of financial or CGUs, the key assumptions used and other than as set out below, no IT control which they wish to bring to the Committees attention.
The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the carrying X Internal audit value of EthosEnergy in the year, which concluded that a further write Monitoring the activity of the Group Internal Audit function is an agenda down of $56.7m was required at 31 December 2016.
Following the item at each Committee meeting.
The Group Head of Internal Audit, write down in 2015, the joint venture's performance for 2016 was who joined the Group in January 2016, attended all meetings.
Each significantly behind expectations as the joint venture, which was only year, the Committee agrees the plan to be carried out and receives formed in May 2014, has not delivered the level of growth anticipated regular updates on progress against this plan, including a summary of at this point last year.
Areas of the business which had been expected the key findings from each of its reviews, an update on the status of to contribute strongly to performance as the JV became more actions agreed with management and a note of any themes or emerging established made losses and the disposal of a location for which a risk areas to be considered by the Committee.
sale was close to being agreed did not complete.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions used by management to value the Group's During 2016 the Committee received regular updates on the audits investment in the JV at the end of 2016 on both a value in use basis, carried out in the legacy WG PSN US businesses that were undertaken which has been used in the accounts, and by considering the available following a small number of control failures in late 2015.
The audits were third party evidence.
The Committee was satisfied that the projections completed in the first half of 2016 and the control recommendations are based on reasonable but cautious projections for future cash flow arising were addressed by management by the end of the year.
and, after the impairment, give an appropriate carrying valuation for the investment in EthosEnergy.
The external auditors assessed this as The Chair of the Committee holds private discussions with the Group an area of particular focus and the Committee received updates on Head of Internal Audit as necessary during the year outside the formal related work undertaken by PwC.
X Current and deferred tax balances External audit The Group operates in a number of different tax regimes and a range As part of the external audit process, PwC prepare an audit plan of judgements underpin the calculations for both current and deferred identifying their assessment of key audit risks.
In the Income Statement, these can have an impact on both the discussed during the year with input from management and the Group tax charge and the operating profit.
The Committee receives a detailed Head of Internal Audit as necessary, providing the Committee with an written report on taxation matters at each meeting and the Group Head opportunity to understand, challenge and ultimately agree with the of Tax & Treasury presented to the August meeting.
Where necessary, auditors which areas should be covered.
The Committee assessed the Committee considers advice received from professional advisory the effectiveness of the audit process through consideration of the firms.
This was recognised by PwC as an area of higher audit risk and reporting received from PwC at the half year and the year end, the the Committee received updates on related work undertaken by them robustness of the external auditors handling of key judgemental areas during the year.
The PwC Tax partner assigned to the Audit engagement and the quality of the external auditors interaction with, and reporting attended the August meeting.
40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee also reviews the standing, experience and tenure The provision of tax services by PwC in 2017 will be further restricted of the external audit lead partner, the arrangements for ensuring by the revised Ethical Standard for auditors issued by the Financial the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the Reporting Council FRC during 2016. nature and level of non-audit services provided.
In addition, an annual exercise to seek feedback from around the Group on the effectiveness Committee evaluation of the external audit process is performed.
The Committees activities formed part of the external review of Board and Committee effectiveness performed in the year.
Overall the X Appointment and independence Committee was considered to be operating effectively, however some The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the external additional areas to consider in 2017 and beyond are: auditors independence and objectivity is not compromised.
X Provision of more in role training to Committee members, based The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor around upcoming changes to accounting standards each year and also assesses their independence on an ongoing X Maintain focus on performance drivers, including culture basis.
During the year the Committee received confirmation from the external auditors regarding their independence.
In accordance with X Use the May meeting to carry out a deeper dive into one specific UK regulations and to help ensure independence, the auditors adhere control to a rotation policy based on Auditing Practices Board standards that require the Group audit partner to rotate every five years.
This is the fourth year that Lindsay Gardiner, the current lead audit partner, has been involved in the audit of the Group.
At the end of 2015 and in compliance with the provisions of the UK Competition & Markets Authority CMA Order we decided to conduct a tender for the audit during 2016.
To allow a transition of non-audit services currently performed by firms tendering for the audit see next section below, it was agreed that the appointment would take effect for the audit of the year ending 31 December 2018.
Although the Committee remained satisfied with the effectiveness of the current external auditors, PwC, they have been in place since the Group became a publicly listed company in 2002.
This means that they would be subject to mandatory rotation within four years of the new appointment, and for that reason they were not asked to submit a tender.
We consulted our major shareholders on the process and on the firms we intended to invite to tender and the Committee took the feedback received into account.
During April written submissions were received from the three firms invited to tender and following evaluation all were asked to present to the Audit Committee in May.
After due consideration the Committee decided that on balance KPMGs proposal demonstrated the greatest understanding of the Groups culture and strategy, industry knowledge and proposed an innovative and effective audit approach which would provide a high level of challenge to management.
The Board approved the Committees recommendation that KPMG be appointed for the 2018 audit, which would be put to the May 2018 AGM.
The Committee also provided the Board with its recommendation to shareholders on the reappointment of PwC as external auditor for the Governance in action year ending 31 December 2017.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC as the Groups external auditor will be put During the year the Board received presentations from to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations management on all of the Groups service lines to broaden that restrict the Groups choice of external auditors.
their understanding of the business and meet a broader cross section of Group management.
As well as these presentations X Non-audit services board members visited the offices of our automation business in Houston and a clients fabrication yard in the Gulf of Mexico One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision where several of the facilities designed by Wood Group were of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Groups policy in under construction.
this area, which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference, is clear.
The Committee considers and approves fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with policy and the cost of non-audit services provided in 2016 is reported in note 3 to the financial statements.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of these non-audit services did not impair PwCs independence.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
