90 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Committees Our board has three committees: the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Their terms of reference can be found in the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of our website.
Board Attendance The attendance of members at board meetings in the year was as follows: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible to meetings % Role to board attend attended attended Tim Stevenson Chairman 29th March 20116 6 100% Odile Desforges Non-Executive Director 1st July 2013 6 6 100% Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13th January 2011 6 6 100% Den Jones Group Finance Director 5th June 2014 6 6 100% Robert MacLeod Chief Executive 22nd June 20096 6 100% Colin Matthews Non-Executive Director 4th October 2012 6 6 100% Chris Mottershead Non-Executive Director 27th January 2015 6 6 100% Larry Pentz Executive Director 1st August 2003 6 6 100% Dorothy Thompson Non-Executive Director 1st September 2007 6 6 100% John Walker Executive Director 9th October 2013 6 6 100% Tim Stevenson was appointed Chairman on 19th July 2011.
Robert MacLeod was appointed Chief Executive on 5th June 2014.
Since the end of the year, the board has met twice and all members attended.
The attendance of members at board committee meetings in the year is set out in the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Remuneration Report in respect of the Remuneration Committee on pages 102, 98 and 118 respectively.
Where directors are unable to attend a board or board committee meeting, they communicate their comments and observations on the matters to be considered in advance of the meeting via the group Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the relevant board committee chairman for raising as appropriate at the meeting.
Individuals attendance at board and board committee meetings is considered, as necessary, as part of the formal annual review of their performance.
Independence of the EFFECTIVENESS Current Board Composition Non-Executive Directors Our Boards Composition The board formally reviews Non-Executive As at 31st March 2016 following the Director independence annually, most retirement of Larry Pentz as an Executive recently at its meeting in May 2016.
The Director on that date and as at the date of board considers all relevant relationships Executive approval of this annual report, our board and circumstances, including those set out Independent Directors comprised the Chairman, three Executive in the Code.
It considers, for example, Non-Executive 37.5% Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, whether the director has, or has had within Directors each of whom is determined by the board to 62.5% the last three years, a material business be independent.
Details of all our directors relationship with Johnson Matthey, holds can be found on pages 82 and 83. cross directorships or has significant links Our board seeks to ensure that both with fellow directors through involvement it and its committees have the appropriate in other companies or bodies, or represents range and balance of skills, experience, or has a material connection to a controlling knowledge and independence to enable or significant shareholder or is nominated them to carry out their duties and by a shareholder.
Under the Code, the Chairman is excluded when responsibilities effectively.
The board is of The board considers that there are no considering the independent Non-Executive Director the view that it is the right size to meet the business or other relationships or composition of the board.
business requirements, that changes to its circumstances which are likely to affect, or composition and that of its committees can may appear to affect, the judgment of any be managed without undue disruption and Non-Executive Director.
Each Non-Executive that it is not so large as to be unwieldy.
It Director is determined by the board to be also believes that it includes an appropriate independent in character and judgment.
combination of Executive and Non-Executive Information on the companys Directors and, in particular, independent procedures for authorising potential conflicts Non-Executive Directors.
The size and of interest is set out under Directors composition of the board is regularly Conflicts of Interest on page 93. reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
91 Johnson Matthey has in place a Board and Committee Succession Planning range of ongoing talent management and Appointments The board recognises that effective development initiatives designed to further The board, through the Nomination succession planning is not only a develop senior management.
Many of these Committee, follows a formal, rigorous and fundamental component of board are well established, but new initiatives are transparent procedure to select and appoint effectiveness but is also integral to the being developed and introduced which new board directors.
The processes are delivery of Johnson Mattheys strategic are designed to support current strategic similar for the appointment of Executive and plans.
It is essential in ensuring a consistent imperatives.
Key initiatives continued this Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination level of quality in management, in avoiding year are our executive development Committee leads the process and makes instability by helping mitigate the risks which programme with London Business School, recommendations to the board.
The board may be associated with any unforeseen aimed at developing senior level talent and recognises the importance of developing events such as the departure of a key boosting their capabilities around strategy internal talent for board appointments, as individual, and in promoting diversity.
The and leadership, and a global training well as recruiting externally, and Johnson board, through the Nomination Committee, curriculum to support the groups Matthey has a variety of mentoring is actively engaged in succession planning Manufacturing Excellence programme, arrangements and a wide range of to ensure plans are in place for the orderly as described on page 25. management development programmes and progressive refreshing of its membership Succession planning at board and for all employee levels, as described on and to identify and develop senior senior management level for Johnson pages 66 and 67.
The board also management with potential for board and Matthey includes potential succession to recognises the need to recruit Non-Executive GMC positions.
all senior roles, including that of Chief Directors with the right technical skills and Below board level, there is a structured Executive, and considers the identification, knowledge for its committees and who approach to succession planning designed development and readiness of potential have the potential to chair them.
to secure a pipeline of talented and capable internal successors.
The board through individuals from within Johnson Matthey the Nomination Committee will continue Terms of Appointment of the who will ultimately progress to board and to focus during the coming year on the Non-Executive Directors GMC positions.
Each of our divisions and key issues of active talent management, corporate functions prepare and maintain Our Non-Executive Directors are appointed mobility across the group and diversity.
succession plans, assisted by divisional for specified terms subject to annual and group Human Resources.
The GMC election and to the provisions of the rigorously reviews these plans each year.
Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act A key aim is to ensure broad experience relating to the removal of a director.
and encourage cross fertilisation across In accordance with the Code, any our divisions.
The identification and term beyond six years for a Non-Executive development of high potential individuals is Director is subject to particularly rigorous also considered by the GMC.
The GMCs review and takes into account the need for review of the succession plans generally progressive refreshing of the board.
leads to further refinement and changes, Colin Matthews, one of our resulting in the final plans which are Non-Executive Directors who will be submitted to the Nomination Committee.
proposed for re-election at the 2016 AGM, Each year the Nomination Committee, with has served on our board for three years.
input from the Group Human Resources His term of appointment was reviewed Director, reviews the management and extended during the year to development and succession planning 3rd October 2018. processes for the directors and senior executives, approves succession plans for the board and considers succession plans Non-Executive Director Tenure for senior executives.
6-9 years 20% 0-3 years 40% 3-6 years 40% Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 92 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Evaluation Process Boardroom Diversity Director Induction and Under the Code, evaluation of the board Development Our board believes that diversity is important should consider the balance of skills, for board effectiveness.
Induction experience, independence and knowledge Johnson Matthey puts full, formal and of the company on the board: its diversity, Diversity Policy tailored induction programmes in place for including gender: how the board works Our board has adopted a diversity policy all its new board directors.
While directors together as a unit and other factors relevant and this is set out in full in the Sustainability backgrounds and experience are taken to its effectiveness.
Our board followed this Sustainability Governance Our Policies into account, the induction is aimed to principle in its board and committee section of our website.
We have not set be a broad introduction to the groups evaluation process in 2015 16.
Further express diversity quotas or measurable businesses and its areas of significant risk.
information is set out under Evaluation of objectives for implementing the policy.
Key elements are meeting the executive the Board, Board Committees and However, in recent Non-Executive Director directors and senior and middle management Directors on page 93. selection processes the board has individually and collectively and visiting the encouraged applications from women groups major sites in order to be briefed on Appointments to the Board subject to the objective selection criteria group strategy and on individual businesses.
As described under Board and Committee being met and to the appointment of the Appointments on page 91, the search for best qualified candidate.
Familiarisation, Training and Development board candidates is conducted, and As at the date of approval of this Our intention is that all directors have appointments made, on merit, against annual report we had two women on our familiarity with, and appropriate knowledge objective selection criteria, having due board, which represented 22% of our total of, Johnson Matthey and gain access to regard for the benefits of diversity on the board membership.
The board board, including gender.
The company has taken, and continues ensures that the company provides the to take, several steps to promote diversity necessary resources to allow this to happen.
Time Commitment of and inclusion, including gender diversity, We take various steps to ensure that all of the Chairman and the both at senior management level and in the our directors continually refresh their Non-Executive Directors boardroom.
Developing policies and knowledge and skills so that they can The board recognises that it is vital that processes that prevent bias in relation to effectively fulfil their roles on our board and all directors should be able to dedicate recruitment and promotion form the basis its committees and so that their contributions sufficient time to Johnson Matthey to of this.
However, the key to progress lies in remain informed and relevant.
Further details effectively discharge their responsibilities.
ensuring that positive measures are taken.
are provided in Getting to Know the The time commitment required by Johnson These include requiring balanced shortlists Business on page 85.
Matthey is considered by the board and by when recruiting, ensuring diversity mix at The board holds at least one board individual directors on appointment.
The company events and conferences, actively meeting per year at one of the groups letters of appointment of the Chairman and discussing diversity in succession planning operational sites and takes the opportunity of each Non-Executive Director set out the and talent management, promoting industrial to tour the site and discuss business issues, expected minimum time commitment for and scientific careers to women and risks and strategy with local management.
Each undertake that they will developing family friendly and flexible Two such meetings were held during the have sufficient time to meet what is expected employment policies.
There remain year as detailed on pages 85 and 86. of them for the proper performance of their challenges to overcome, particularly in Individual Non-Executive Directors also duties and acknowledge that there may, on respect of gender diversity given the sector undertake site visits.
These presentations, occasion, be a need to devote additional in which Johnson Matthey operates, but we meetings and site visits help the time.
The minimum time commitment are continuing to make good progress.
Non-Executive Directors to familiarise considered by the board to be necessary themselves with, and gain a greater insight for a Non-Executive Director, and provided into, Johnson Mattheys businesses and Read more on page 70. in the letters of appointment, is two days help to give a balanced overview of the per month following induction.
They enable the Non-Executive The other significant commitments of Directors to continue to develop and refresh the Chairman and of each Non-Executive their knowledge and understanding of our Director are disclosed to the board before businesses, the markets in which we appointment, with an indication of the time operate and our key relationships.
The board requires to be, and is, They are also important for building informed of subsequent changes as they links with our employees.
Details of Tim Stevensons other As part of the annual performance significant commitments are set out on review process referred to under Evaluation page 82.
There were no changes to his of the Board, Board Committees and significant commitments during the year.
Directors on page 93, our Chairman, Tim Details of the other board members other Stevenson, discusses any individual training significant commitments are set out on and development requirements.
Tim is also pages 82 and 83. available throughout the year to discuss these areas.
93 Information and Support In 2014 15 the board and its Directors Conflicts of Interest The board has processes in place to ensure committees underwent an external We have established procedures in place in that it receives the right information in the evaluation process led by consultants, JCA accordance with our Articles of Association right form and at the right time to enable Group.
This year, 2015 16, our Chairman to ensure we comply with the directors it to effectively discharge its duties.
The led an internal review process supported by conflicts of interest duties under the 2006 Act Chairman, through the Company Secretary the committee chairs and the Company and for dealing with situations in which a and with the support of the Executive Secretary.
In January and February 2016 the director may have a direct or indirect interest Directors and management, ensures that Chairman had individual discussions with that conflicts with, or may conflict with, the this information is of high quality in terms each member of the board, the Company interests of the company.
Johnson Matthey of its accuracy, clarity, appropriateness, Secretary, the Group Human Resources has complied with these procedures during comprehensiveness and currency.
Directors Director and the KPMG lead audit partner.
are able to seek clarification or amplification The conversations were open, confidential In April 2016 the board undertook from management where necessary.
Our and unattributed, using a discussion an annual review of potential conflict matters directors have access to independent framework to steer but not prescribe including in respect of directors external external professional advice at the the topics.
appointments both current and pending.
companys expense where they judge this The Chairman discussed his findings In each case, the review was undertaken by necessary to discharge their responsibilities with the Chief Executive and presented them directors who were genuinely independent as directors.
to the board in April 2016 together with a of the matter.
The board concluded that number of ideas and key recommendations there were no matters which constituted a Indemnification of Directors for consideration by the board.
Therefore currently there are and Insurance been discussed by the board and follow up no approved conflict matters.
Potential actions and responsibilities considered.
Under Deed Polls dated 20th July 2005 conflict matters will continue to be reviewed The board also discussed the evaluation Johnson Matthey granted indemnities in by the board on an annual basis.
process itself and agreed that this had been favour of each director of the company and The board confirms that Johnson appropriate and effective.
of its subsidiaries in respect of any liability Matthey complies with its procedures to Key discussion areas in the review that he or she may incur to a third party in authorise conflict situations and is satisfied included board composition, organisation relation to the affairs of the company or any that its powers to authorise conict of meetings and agendas numbers of group member.
These were in force during situations are being exercised properly and meetings, paperwork, management of board the year for the benefit of all persons who effectively and in accordance with its affairs, knowledge and information, the were directors of the company or of its Articles of Association.
nature and style of discussions, key board subsidiaries at any time during the year.
responsibilities succession management, They remained in force for the benefit of all Evaluation of the Board, Board culture and ethics and strategy, risk persons who were directors of the company Committees and Directors management and roles.
or of its subsidiaries as at the date of Our board carries out a formal annual The 2015 16 review echoed the key approval of this annual report.
The company evaluation of its own performance and that findings of the prior years review that the has appropriate directors and officers of its committees and individual directors board was well founded in terms of liability insurance cover in place in respect with the aim of improving effectiveness.
composition, organisation and culture and of legal action against, amongst others, This is led by the Chairman and seeks to operating effectively to support the business.
its executive and non-executive directors.
be as rigorous and objective as possible.
Since the 2014 15 review, the Chairman and Neither the company nor any subsidiary has The process considers the boards strengths the board have sought to make continuous indemnified any director of the company or and weaknesses, its range and balance of improvements and enhance focus in order a subsidiary in respect of any liability that he skills, experience, independence and to make the board even more useful both or she may incur to a third party in relation knowledge of the company, its diversity, as a monitor of executive performance to a relevant occupational pension scheme.
including gender, how the board works and more importantly a contributor to that together as a unit and any other factors performance.
This was felt to be particularly considered to be relevant.
Individual relevant at a time when the market evaluation aims to show whether each environment has become more challenging.
director continues to contribute effectively Certain actions were developed by the and to demonstrate commitment to the role board following the 2014 15 review and including time commitment.
The Chairman progress on these was reflected on in the acts on the results of the performance 2015 16 review as well as further evaluation.
Strengths are recognised and consideration being given in some areas.
A summary of findings and actions undertaken following the 2014 15 review and the key findings and recommendations from this years review are outlined on the following page.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 94 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Evaluation Culture, ethics and The 2014 15 review emphasised the importance of the board being able to gain a deeper read on the governance culture of Johnson Matthey, together with the continued need to attend closely to ethics and governance as the group grows into new geographies and new sectors.
In this context, the board recognised the importance of demonstrating its full support for the reinforcement of ethical conduct and the leadership Read more on of this by the Chief Executive.
The 2015 16 review reaffirmed the responsibility of the board in respect of style, tone and culture throughout the organisation, particularly in terms of continuing to ensure an open and straightforward culture which encourages and supports the raising of difficult issues.
Strategy In 2014 15 the review focused on creating time for further discussion on the longer term strategy for the business to gain maximum benefit from the collective experience and input of all board members.
It considered how best to ensure ongoing dialogue by the board to continue to evaluate investment Read more on decisions and, in particular, to ensure the board is able to provide effective challenge as it considers pages 20 and 21. expansion into new areas and or geographies.
The 2015 16 review found that the board's agendas allocate appropriate time to consideration of strategic issues and the continuing development of strategy as circumstances evolve.
Risk management In 2014 15 the review recognised the need to continue to pay close attention to risk management, including non-financial risk, and the further embedding of risk management into Johnson Mattheys culture.
Read more on The 2015 16 review found that, in general, good progress is being made in the way in which risk in the pages 28 to 35. business is identified and managed, but that there is further work to do in this area, including in enhancing and developing our processes.
Proposals for improvements were made in respect of risk reviews by the board.
Board composition In the 2014 15 review, consideration was given to the ongoing need to ensure appropriate board composition and mix of experience.
Read more on In the 2015 16 review, the board felt its size and the balance of non-executive and executive members was pages 82 and 83. appropriate and would continue to be so after the retirement of Larry Pentz in March 2016.
It was also felt the current mix of skills, experience and diversity including of style and approach across the Non-Executive Directors should continue to serve the board and the company well.
Board dynamics In 2014 15 the review focused on a desire for continued strengthening of engagement, contribution and constructive challenge by all board members.
Read more on The 2015 16 review found good engagement, strong and open contribution to discussion and decisions page 85. and constructive challenge to the executive.
However, more challenge from the non-executive members would be welcome and valuable.
Suggestions were considered on a range of matters, including the value of agenda free sometimes exploratory discussions and how to gain full value from presentations to the board.
Consideration was given to our practice of having all Non-Executive Directors sit on all board committees and it was felt that this additional commitment for the Non-Executive Directors was outweighed by the value of everyone being kept up to date and contributing in all key committee areas.
It was felt that teach-ins on major business areas, explicitly separated from consideration of strategy, are an important and most valuable step forward in increasing non-executive understanding and contribution.
Succession management In 2014 15 the review underlined the need for continued focus on succession management, including providing the board with a deeper understanding and visibility of talent and higher potentials in the group below GMC level.
The 2015 16 review again reflected that a key role of the board, and particularly its Nomination Committee, is to ensure that there is a viable and effective process for management of succession to key positions and that this is backed up by processes for management of individual careers through development of skills management moves and appropriate training.
It was felt that, well supported by the groups Human Resources function, excellent progress was being made in this critical area.
However, there were some important areas for focus on key succession strength and the development of individual talent.
Several proposals were put forward to enable more to be achieved in this area.
