86 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Our board of directors is responsible to our The UK Corporate Governance Code was published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC shareholders for ensuring the sound running in May 2010 with revised versions published in September 2012 and September 2014 of the company.
This can only be achieved the Code.
The Code contains broad principles and specific provisions which set out if the board is supported by appropriate standards of good practice in relation to leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, and well managed governance processes.
accountability and relations with shareholders.
This Corporate Governance Report The key elements of these are described is structured so as to report against the Code by reference to each of these key areas.
in this Corporate Governance Report.
Together with the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report and the Remuneration Report, it describes how we have complied with the relevant provisions of the Code and applied its main principles during the year.
We have complied with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year except in relation to Senior Independent Director contact with major shareholders.
This is explained in more detail on page 97.
Compliance Committee, the Finance and This statement, together with the schedule LEADERSHIP Administration Committee, the IT Committee of matters reserved for the board, as well Governance Framework and the Contracts Review Committee, each as the terms of reference of the Audit of which has responsibility for certain areas Committee, Nomination Committee and The groups principal decision making body within the group.
Remuneration Committee, can be found is the board.
It has responsibility for setting The governance framework is described in the Investor Relations Corporate the groups strategic direction and for on page 87.
Governance section of our website.
ensuring that the group manages risk There is a clear division of responsibilities Further information on the role of effectively.
The board is accountable to between the running of the board and the our board and its committees and how shareholders for the groups financial and executive responsibility for the running of they operate is also set out in the Investor operational performance.
The board has identified Relations Corporate Governance section Responsibility for implementing certain matters which only it can approve.
We also explain further operational decisions and the day to day These are set out in a schedule of matters the respective roles of our Chairman, management of the business is delegated reserved for the board.
The Chairmans our Chief Executive, our Executive to the Chief Executive who is supported by and Chief Executives roles are separate Directors, our Non-Executive Directors, the Group Management Committee GMC.
and this division of responsibilities is clearly our Senior Independent Director and The GMC is supported by four established in a written statement.
sub-committees the Group Policy and Go online: www.
com investor governance Board Meetings Annual Agenda Plan Each year the board agrees an annual agenda plan designed to ensure that it has the right amount of time throughout the year to discuss all necessary matters.
In particular, the board has sought to ensure there is sufficient time to discuss strategy so that the Non-Executive Directors have a good opportunity to challenge and help develop strategy proposals.
Board Activities During the Year Our board usually meets formally six times a year.
During the year these meetings were held at various locations and additional activities were carried out as shown below.
Date of board meeting Location Additional activities 1st April 2015 Royston, UK Tour of Noble Metals plant 2nd June 2015 London, UK 21st July 2015 London, UK 29th September 2015 Chilton, UK Tour of Process Technologies site Strategy review session 17th November 2015 London, UK Fine Chemicals teach-in 2nd February 2016 London, UK Battery Technologies teach-in In addition to the above formal meetings, during the year board members participated in two scheduled board telephone conference calls.
The purpose of these was to give the Executive Directors the opportunity to update the Non-Executive Directors on key matters during the longer gaps between scheduled board meetings.
87 OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Chairman BOARD Executive Directors Membership Tim Stevenson Den Jones Robert MacLeod Nine directors Chairman, three Executive Key responsibilities John Walker Directors and five independent Leads the board.
Key responsibilities Ensures an effective board, including Role Have specific responsibilities for areas effective contribution from the directors.
Provides entrepreneurial leadership Ensures that Johnson Matthey of the company and direction for Discharge duties in respect of the maintains effective communications management.
Has collective responsibility and accountability to shareholders for the long term success of the group.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Reviews the performance of management and the operating and Alan Ferguson Odile Desforges financial performance of the group.
Alan Ferguson Key responsibilities Sets strategy.
Colin Matthews Provides a sounding board for Chris Mottershead Determines risk appetite.
Dorothy Thompson Ensures that appropriate risk Acts, if necessary, as a focal point and management and internal control Key responsibilities intermediary for the other directors.
Constructively challenge the executive Ensures that any key issues not directors in all areas.
Sets the companys values and addressed by the Chairman or the standards.
executive management are taken up Ensures good governance and Help develop proposals on strategy.
Available to shareholders should they promotes good behaviour.
Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and on the Leads the annual appraisal of the effectiveness of financial controls and Chairmans performance.
Determine appropriate level of remuneration for executive directors.
Chief Executive Company Secretary Robert MacLeod Simon Farrant Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Has day to day responsibility for running the groups operations.
Acts as secretary to the board and its committees.
Recommends to the board and implements group strategy.
Together with the Chairman, keeps the efficacy of the companys and the boards governance processes under review.
Has responsibility for compliance with board procedures.
Promotes the companys culture and standards.
Provides advice on corporate governance issues.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Membership Membership Membership Five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Five independent Non-Executive Directors Five independent Non-Executive Directors and the group Chairman.
Role Role Role Assists the board in carrying out its oversight responsibilities in relation to Considers structure, size, composition Determines remuneration policy for financial reporting, internal controls and and succession needs of the board.
executive directors and the Chairman.
risk management and in maintaining Oversees succession planning for Reviews and monitors the level an appropriate relationship with our senior executives.
and structure of remuneration for external auditor.
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Membership Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Executive Director, Division Directors, Group Corporate and Strategic Development Director, Group Human Resources Director, Chief Technology Officer, Company Secretary and Group Legal Director.
Role Has responsibility for the executive management of the groups businesses.
Recommends strategic and operating plans to the board.
Group Policy and Finance and IT Committee Contracts Review Compliance Committee Administration Committee Committee Chaired by John Walker.
Role Role Role Role Provides leadership, oversight Has responsibility for certain Has responsibility for oversight Reviews contract and litigation and assurance in relation to of the groups finance and of the groups IT.
certain environment, health corporate restructuring matters.
and safety, sustainability, human resources and ethics and compliance matters.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 88 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 3 C During the year the board focused on a number of specific areas which are outlined in the following table.
Links to the groups 3C Strategy shown on the right and 8 9 12 principal risks below are also highlighted in the table.
Customer Create focus value 1 Growth within our existing business 2 New business 3 Innovation 7 6 5 4 Global economic, political and regulatory uncertainty Growth Collaborate The best 5 from new to leverage of big Environment, health and safety business our expertise and small 6 Supply chain 7 People 8 Security of assets 1 2 3 4 Invest 9 Build on Operational The Johnson Intellectual capital in people, 10 our core excellence and Matthey Failure of significant sites products and strengths sustainability culture 11 Ethics and compliance technology 12 Business transition Principal Board Activities Link to Link to key strategy principal Activities Key outcomes building blocks risks Strategy Reviewed market and supply chain Approved strategy to refocus the business on the 7 8 9 2 developments in respect of our Fuel Cells stationary sector while maintaining the technology business position in the automotive sector.
position in the automotive sector.
Reviewed Emission Control Technologies ECTs Approved strategy.
1 2 3 8 9 1 3 4 strategy including global growth drivers and investment in technology.
Approved strategy to establish Johnson Matthey 1 2 8 9 1 3 as the leading integrated controlled substance and technology enabled Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API supplier to the pharmaceutical sector.
Endorsed accelerating the move up the value chain to formulated drug products.
Reviewed New Businesses Battery Technologies Approved strategy.
1 2 7 8 9 2 3 strategy including the technology capabilities in battery materials.
Endorsed the approach being taken to build on 1 2 6 9 1 2 3 technical competences and skills including the development and management of a groupwide innovation portfolio.
Considered performance against our Agreed to build on the success of Sustainability 2017 3 4 9 3 5 6 7 Sustainability 2017 Vision and proposals by developing a Sustainability 2025 programme.
Approved acquisition of Stepac Atmosphere 1 4 7 9 1 2 3 11 Controls Technologies, New Businesses and Miox Water Technologies, New Businesses.
Agreed investment in Shanghai Bi Ke Clean Energy Technology Co Ltd, CECC, a Chinese chemical process technology commercialisation and licensing start-up company PT.
Discussed 2025 Vision and Johnson Mattheys Considered how to use the anniversary in 2017 to 4 6 8 9 200th anniversary in 2017. support our strategic objectives, image, reputation and future growth.
1 2 4 5 1 2 3 Reviewed at off site strategy meeting: Agreed approach to securing short term profit Johnson Mattheys growth portfolio: potential of the portfolio and approach to longer 6 7 8 9 6 7 12 PT strategy: and term growth prospects across key sectors aspects of group organisation.
Agreed approach to organisational design to enable delivery of strategy.
Two half day deep dive teach-ins on Helped to facilitate board strategic review 1 2 5 6 7 8 9 1 2 3 Fine Chemicals and Battery Technologies.
Read more about our 3C Strategy on pages 20 and 21.
Read more about our principal risks on pages 28 to 35.
89 Link to Link to key strategy principal Activities Key outcomes building blocks risks Environment, Health and Safety EHS Reviewed EHS performance at each board meeting.
Reviewed fatality at Riverside Fine Chemicals 3 4 5 Considered significant EHS incidents.
including management response and actions.
Reviewed key areas of focus and effectiveness of EHS reporting and management processes.
Risk and Governance 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 Reviewed boards responsibilities in relation to risk Agreed processes.
assessment and monitoring of risk management Assessed and agreed principal risks and the 7 8 9 5 6 7 8 and internal control systems following changes to management and mitigation of these risks.
9 10 11 12 the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Reviewed principal risks, key assurance activities and risk appetite.
Reviewed key findings of board, committee and Agreed board development plan for 4 9 Chairman performance evaluation.
Reviewed directors conflicts of interest and Non-Executive Directors independence.
Financial and Operational Reviewed group budget and three year plan.
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 Reviewed full year results, half-yearly results, 5 6 7 8 5 6 7 10 trading updates and the annual report.
9 12 Reviewed the groups capital structure, dividend policy and proposals in respect of dividends.
Reviewed the groups information security strategy.
1 4 5 8 9 10 12 Reviewed progress on the development and Approved major capital investment to upgrade core 1 5 6 9 8 9 10 12 implementation of new groupwide IT and business business systems.
Considered capital investment proposals and Approved capital investments including an expansion 1 2 3 7 1 2 3 5 undertook post-investment reviews of key capital in capacity at ECTs Redwitz, Germany facility, a new 8 9 7 expenditure projects.
platinum group metals catalyst plant at PTs Emmerich, Germany facility and additional investment at Fine Chemicals Annan, UK facility.
Shareholder Engagement Reviewed analyst and investor feedback following Key reflections taken into consideration by full year and half-yearly results announcements, executive management.
Investor Day and outcome of biennial investor perception study.
Reviewed proposed results presentations to investors and analysts.
Received an update from one of our brokers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, regarding share price performance, market perceptions and relevant macroeconomic factors.
Our Values Received a legal, ethics and compliance and Challenged pace of progress in embedding 4 5 9 9 11 intellectual property risk update.
Johnson Mattheys new code of ethics.
Code of ethics training session for board.
Leadership and People Reviewed our people strategy in relation to 1 2 4 5 7 11 recruitment, development and support, reward and 6 9 retention, culture and values and supporting change.
Approved the appointment of Jane Griffiths as a Non-Executive Director.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
