96 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Risk Management and Internal The Audit Committee Contact with Our Shareholders Control Systems The composition of the Audit Committee Our Chairman takes overall responsibility for The groups risk management and internal is set out in the Audit Committee Report ensuring that the views of our shareholders control systems comprise group policies, pages 101 to 107, which describes the are communicated to the board and that procedures and practices covering a range work of the Audit Committee in discharging our directors are made aware of major of areas including the appropriate its responsibilities.
authorisation and approval of transactions, However, contact with major shareholders is the application of financial reporting Financial Experience principally maintained by the Chief Executive standards and the review of financial The board is satisfied that at least one and the Group Finance Director.
They have performance and significant judgments.
member of the Audit Committee, a regular dialogue with institutional Our Group Control Manual, which is Alan Ferguson, has recent and relevant shareholders on performance, plans and distributed to all group operations, clearly financial experience.
objectives through a programme of one to sets out the composition, responsibilities one and group meetings and ensure that and authority limits of the various board and shareholder views are communicated to the executive committees and also specifies board.
Our Investor Relations Department RELATIONS WITH what may be decided without central acts as a focal point for contact with SHAREHOLDERS approval.
It is supplemented by other investors throughout the year.
specialist policy and procedure manuals The Chairman is available to meet with Dialogue with Our Shareholders issued by Johnson Matthey, its divisions institutional investors to hear their views and individual businesses or departments.
Our board welcomes the opportunity to and discuss any issues or concerns, openly engage with shareholders as it including on governance and strategy.
Review of Effectiveness of the recognises the importance of a continuing The Senior Independent Director and the Groups Risk Management and effective dialogue, whether with major other Non-Executive Directors are similarly Internal Control Systems institutional investors, private shareholders available if requested, but no such meetings The board has important responsibilities in or employee shareholders.
The board takes were held or requested during the year.
respect of the groups risk management and responsibility for ensuring that such dialogue Overall, the board believes that internal control systems including financial takes place.
appropriate steps have been taken during controls, controls in respect of the financial the year to ensure that the members of the reporting process and controls of an Reporting of Results and board, and in particular the Non-Executive operational and compliance nature.
The Investor Day Directors, develop an understanding of the board monitors these carefully throughout We report formally to our shareholders when views of major shareholders.
These have the year and carries out an annual review of we publish our full year results in June and included, for example, analysts and their adequacy and effectiveness.
The board our half-yearly results in November.
These brokers briefings, consideration by the has delegated part of this responsibility to results are posted on our website.
When we board of six monthly brokers reports and the Audit Committee.
The role and work of publish the results, our Executive Directors of feedback from shareholder meetings on the Audit Committee in this regard and the give presentations on the half-yearly and full a six monthly basis.
Major shareholders role of the groups internal audit function are year results in face to face meetings with views are canvassed for the board in a described in the Audit Committee Report institutional investors, analysts and the detailed investor survey which is usually page 104. media in London.
Live webcasts and conducted every two years by external The board, through setting its own transcripts of these presentations are consultants.
It is planned that the next such annual agenda plan, defines the review available on our website.
Our first quarter survey will be undertaken in September 2017. process to be undertaken, including the and third quarter trading updates issued in The purpose of these surveys is to obtain scope and frequency of assurance reports July and late January early February each the views and opinions of a broad range of received throughout the year.
The board year are also posted on our website.
agenda plan, together with that of the Audit In addition, we hold an Investor Day The Remuneration Committee Committee, are designed to ensure that all for our institutional investors and analysts.
undertakes detailed consultation exercises significant areas of risk and the related risk At the February 2016 Investor Day, held in with a selection of major institutional management and internal control systems London, we gave presentations on Johnson shareholders and institutional investor are reported on and considered during the Matthey and the Evolving Powertrain to bodies as part of its comprehensive review course of the year.
In addition to determining explain how global drivers are influencing of Executive Director and senior management risk appetite, the board specifically reviews, future powertrain developments and creating remuneration arrangements within the group.
amongst other things, risks relating to EHS, market opportunities.
We went on to detail The board believes that these methods, innovation, human resources, legal and how high technology solutions in both taken together, are a practical and efficient compliance and intellectual capital.
emission control and battery technologies way for all our directors to keep in touch The board, in part through the Audit will play a role and to highlight how Johnson with shareholder opinion and views and Committee, has conducted an overarching Matthey is positioned to create superior to reach a balanced understanding of review of the effectiveness of the companys value from these opportunities.
A live major shareholders objectives, issues risk management and internal control webcast of the Investor Day presentation, a and concerns.
systems, covering all material controls, transcript of the event and a downloadable including financial, operational and copy of the slides are available in the compliance controls, and financial reporting Investor Relations Presentations section processes, for the year.
The review process of our website.
accords with the FRC Guidance.
Read more about our principal risks on pages 30 to 35.
97 While the board recognises that the capital and confirms its interest in listening Annual General Meetings company is primarily accountable to its to their views, where relevant, to the The AGM is an important part of effective shareholders, it also recognises the companys overall approach to governance.
Our contribution made by other providers of AGM takes place in London.
Notice is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days beforehand and is published on our website.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The circular sent to shareholders with the Code provision E. 1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient notice aims to set out a balanced and clear meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help explanation of each proposed resolution.
develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
All directors who are able to attend We have not complied with this provision throughout the year.
The board considers, and our AGMs do so.
In 2015 the entire board has done for a number of years, that there are appropriate mechanisms in place to listen attended.
Our board welcomes the to the views of shareholders and communicate them to the board without it being opportunity for face to face communication necessary for the Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major shareholders.
Shareholders are However, he is available to attend any such meetings if requested by shareholders.
The encouraged to participate and all directors board continues to believe that this approach is consistent with the relevant main principle are available to answer questions, formally of the Code on dialogue with shareholders, to which Code provision E. 1.1 relates, and is through the Chairman during the meeting consistent with good governance and the promotion of delivery of the companys and informally afterwards.
This approach will continue throughout the current year but the board will At the AGM we propose separate keep the matter under review.
resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
This year we are proposing separate resolutions in respect of the disapplication of pre-emption rights in accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
For each resolution, shareholders may direct their proxy to vote either for or against or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and the announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a vote withheld is not legally a vote and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes cast.
All valid proxy appointments received are recorded and counted.
All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll rather than on a show of hands and poll voting is carried out by electronic means.
The results of the poll are announced as soon as possible and posted on our website.
This shows votes for and against as well as votes withheld.
Our 2016 AGM will be held on 20th July 2016.
The notice, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered, is set out in a circular to shareholders.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
