98 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT OUR ROLE IS TO ENSURE THAT JOHNSON MATTHEY HAS THE RIGHT LEADERSHIP, INCLUDING A BOARD WITH THE RIGHT MIX OF ATTRIBUTES AND SKILLS TO EFFECTIVELY DEVELOP, AND SUPPORT DELIVERY OF, THE COMPANYS STRATEGY.
Tim Stevenson Chairman of the Nomination Committee The year under review saw changes to our board composition with Also, as we have announced, Den Jones will step down as the retirement of Larry Pentz as an Executive Director in March 2016 Group Finance Director and from the board over the summer after a long and distinguished career.
Further changes will take this year.
We will make an announcement on his successor in due place shortly with the retirement of Dorothy Thompson, one of our course.
During the year we continued our focus on succession Non-Executive Directors, who will have served on the board for nine planning and talent management recognising the importance these years.
Our committee led the search for a new Non-Executive play in supporting the groups strategic aspirations.
Director following Dorothys retirement and we recently announced that Dr Jane Griffiths will be joining the board in January 2017 Role Composition Committee Meetings During the Year The principal role of our Nomination Our committee has six members, Committee is to keep under review the myself as Chairman and all the independent Our committee meets on an ad hoc basis, structure, size and composition of the board Non-Executive Directors of the company.
usually immediately prior to or following a and to make appropriate recommendations Only members of the committee have the board meeting, but on other occasions as to the board with respect to any necessary right to attend meetings.
However, the Chief may be needed.
We also consider the adequacy and Executive and the Group Human Resources We met six times during the year ended effectiveness of management development Director, as well as external advisers and 31st March 2016.
I also kept committee and succession planning processes for board others, attend for all or part of our meetings members up to date by means of telephone members and senior executives and ensure by invitation as and when appropriate.
calls and email communications between the adequacy and effectiveness of the groups Simon Farrant, Company Secretary, meetings.
Several members of the committee, processes for identifying and developing the is secretary to the committee.
led by me, also met as a working group of future senior management pipeline.
Our terms the committee during the year to progress of reference can be found on the Investor Non-Executive Director recruitment.
The Relations Corporate Governance section attendance of members at committee of our website.
meetings during the year was as below: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible meetings to committee to attend attended % attended 1 Tim Stevenson 29th March 2011 66 100% Odile Desforges 1st July 2013 66 100% Alan Ferguson 13th January 2011 66 100% Colin Matthews 4th October 2012 66 100% Chris Mottershead 27th January 2015 66 100% Dorothy Thompson 1st September 2007 66 100% 1 Tim Stevenson was appointed group Chairman on 19th July 2011.
Since the end of the year, the committee has met twice and all members attended.
99 Committee Activities During the Year Our committee has been active in addressing several key matters in the course of the year: Non-Executive Director Considered Non-Executive Director succession and succession to the role of Chair of the Remuneration succession Committee in view of the prospective retirement of Dorothy Thompson as a Non-Executive Director.
Conducted a search process for a new Non-Executive Director with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership.
Recommended to the board the appointment of Dr Jane Griffiths as a new Non-Executive Director.
Recommended to the board that on the retirement of Dorothy Thompson in July 2016, Colin Matthews take on the role of Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Talent management Received a presentation from the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Talent and Learning framework Director on the groups integrated talent management process, addressing the talent requirements for delivery of its strategic aspirations.
Succession planning and Reviewed the 2016 succession plans in respect of the Group Management Committee GMC and other senior management changes senior executives in each division.
Discussed certain GMC membership changes including the appointments during the year of a Chief Technology Officer and a new Division Director, Precious Metal Products and certain proposed senior non-GMC moves.
Renewal of appointment term Having considered his performance and his ability to continue to contribute to the board in light of the knowledge, skills and experience required, as well as his independence, the committee recommended to the board that Colin Matthews term of appointment as a Non-Executive Director be renewed for a second three year term to 3rd October 2018. Review of performance and Led by the committee Chairman, reviewed our committees performance and effectiveness.
effectiveness during 2015 16 Nomination Committee Reviewed and approved the draft Nomination Committee Report for 2015 16.
Report In appointing Non-Executive Directors Board Appointments Succession Planning we seek individuals who can make positive In considering board composition we assess A key role of the Nomination Committee is contributions to the board and its the range and balance of skills, experience, to ensure that plans are in place for the committees and who have the capability to knowledge and independence on the board, orderly and progressive refreshing of the challenge on strategic and other matters.
identify any gaps or issues and consider any board and to identify and develop individuals This is balanced with the need to maintain need to refresh the board.
If, after this with potential for board and GMC positions.
evaluation, we feel that it is necessary to The Nomination Committee will continue to We use external search consultancies appoint a new director we then prepare a focus in particular during the coming year on to help with the appointment process and description of the role and of the capabilities the key issues of active talent management, appointments are ultimately made on merit required for the appointment and set mobility across the group and diversity.
against the agreed selection criteria.
We reviewed in detail the succession The benefits of diversity on the board, plans and development actions in respect of Boardroom Diversity including gender diversity, are carefully the GMC including for the Chief Executive.
The search for board candidates is considered.
We consider any proposed We considered a presentation from conducted, and appointments made, on recruitment in the context of the companys our Group Human Resources Director in merit, against objective selection criteria strategic priorities, plans and objectives, as respect of Johnson Mattheys leadership having due regard, amongst other things, well as the prevailing business environment.
pipeline in the context of the groups talent to the benefits of diversity on the board, We also take into account relevant strategy.
This covered both assessment and including gender.
While the board has not succession plans already in place.
development of internal talent as well as set express diversity quotas or measurable external recruitment.
We also considered a objectives, in the selection process leading presentation on the companys integrated to the appointment of Dr Jane Griffiths talent strategy and talent focus for 2016. as a Non-Executive Director the board This included discussion of further encouraged applications from women strengthening of performance management subject to the selection criteria being met.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 100 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Non-Executive Director Executive Director Changes Succession During the year, the committee has supported We considered Non-Executive Director the Chief Executive in considering the agreed succession in view of Dorothy Thompson stepping down of Den Jones, our Group stepping down from the board.
We Finance Director, which was announced announced on 3rd February 2016 that on 2nd March 2016.
The Chief Executive, Dorothy would be retiring from the board together with the committee, has begun with effect from the close of our AGM on a process to identify Dens successor.
20th July 2016 after nine years as a Larry Pentz retired as an Executive Non-Executive Director including two years Director and from the group at the end of chairing our Remuneration Committee.
His functional responsibilities We also announced on 3rd February regarding environment, health and safety 2016 that Colin Matthews, one of our and operational excellence were assumed Non-Executive Directors, would be by John Walker with effect from 1st October appointed to the role of Chairman of the 2015.
We agreed that the question of board Remuneration Committee in July 2016. balance post Larrys retirement would be Having considered board size and kept under review.
balance, we decided that it was desirable to seek a replacement Non-Executive Director following Dorothys retirement.
We discussed OUR 2015 16 PERFORMANCE REVIEW and identified certain key criteria for the Last year we reviewed our performance proposed appointment, in light of the with the assistance of external balance of skills and experience, consultants, JCA Group.
This year, I led knowledge, independence and diversity, an internal review.
I sought the views of including gender, on the board.
all committee members, as well The selection process aimed to identify as others who regularly attend our the best qualified candidates based on meetings.
Matters covered included the merit following objective assessment.
The scope of the agenda and the running of preference expressed to the head hunters our meetings.
The outcome of the review was for a candidate with sound executive was summarised at our April 2016 experience directly relevant to our Fine meeting and discussed by the board.
In terms of fit there While the importance of giving continued was a desire for difference while appropriate attention to succession maintaining the collegiality of the board.
planning and board balance was It was also agreed that consideration would emphasised, there were no areas where be given to those without FTSE 100 board significant change or improvement was experience.
The Chairman led a subfelt necessary.
committee comprising himself and Alan Ferguson, working with Robert MacLeod and our Group Human Resources Director.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee: We engaged The Zygos Partnership in a search process which led to the appointment of Jane Griffiths as a Non-Executive Director of the company.
Janes appointment, which was announced on 1st June 2016 will take effect on 1st January 2017.
The Zygos Tim Stevenson Partnership has no other connection with Chairman of the Nomination Committee the company.
