EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 22 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alan Saunders Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee A Director since May 2002.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2015.
An Independent Investment Consultant with Allenbridge Epic Investment Solutions Limited.
Mr Saunders was formerly Chief Economist at Royal Dutch Shell and also held senior investment roles in both Lazards and the Private Banking Division of UBS A. G. He is currently independent investment adviser to Dorset County Council Pension Scheme and is a trustee of two corporate pension schemes.
He sits on the Insurance Investment Strategy Committee of Lloyds Bank Insurance and on the With Profits Committee of Scottish Widows and Clerical & Medical insurance companies.
He also sits on the Performance Oversight Committee of CBRE Global Investors, the UK property fund managers.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Shareholding in Company: 6,000 Ordinary shares.
Anatole Kaletsky A Director since September 2003.
Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, a Hong Kong based company which provides economic analysis and asset management services to financial institutions around the world and Committee Member of Open Society Foundations Investment Committee.
Formerly Editor at Large at The Times of London.
Economic commentator for Reuters and the New York Times.
Connections with Manager: Mr. Kaletsky is a founding partner and Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Ordinary shares.
Nigel Kenny Chairman of the Audit Committee, Senior Independent Director A Director since September 2008.
A founding partner of emerging markets private equity company Sabre Capital.
He is currently an independent non-executive director of UC Rusal Ltd, the worlds largest producer of aluminium and alumina products, and a non-executive director of First City Monument Bank Plc, a bank listed on the Nigerian stock exchange.
He was previously an independent non-executive director of PartyGaming Plc.
Between 1992 and 2002 Mr Kenny held a number of senior positions at Standard Chartered Bank, including Group Head of Operations, Corporate and Institutional Banking and Finance Director.
Prior to that he spent 14 years with Chase Manhattan Bank.
Shareholding in Company: 3,500 Ordinary shares.
22 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
