GOVERNANCE 36 Chairmans introduction 38 The Governance Framework 40 Board of Directors 48 Nomination Committee report 50 Audit and Risk Committee report 56 Remuneration report 88 Directors report 92 Directors Responsibility and Compliance Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION DEAR SHAREHOLDER, Jupiter puts considerable emphasis on effective governance, so I am pleased to report on the governance of your Company in 2016.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD AND OUR CORPORATE VALUES The Boards role is to set the Groups strategy, ensure it has the right leadership and culture, monitor the performance of the business and oversee its risk management structure.
The Boards effectiveness in carrying out this role is supported by its focus on culture, setting the tone from the top and paying close attention to good governance throughout the Group.
As Chairman, my role is to lead the Board, set its agenda and ensure it operates effectively.
Our corporate values are longstanding and were first documented in 2015.
They are central to our business success.
You will see them set out fully in the Strategic Report.
They articulate clearly our client-centric culture, focused on integrity and excellence of client outcomes.
THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the Groups long-term success.
This success is promoted by having Board members with a diverse range of relevant skills and experiences.
As the biographies set out later in this section illustrate, the Board has a good balance of asset management, finance, financial services, international, regulatory and governance experience.
The Board is supported by a succession plan, which balances continuity and refreshment of Board membership, and ensures members continue to demonstrate appropriate experience in the asset management markets within which we operate.
In September, Charlotte Jones was appointed as an Executive Director and our Chief Financial Officer, replacing Philip Johnson who departed in May.
Charlotte brings finance experience from across the financial services industry, which has already translated into a helpful contribution to our discussions.
In July, Karl Sternberg joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and became a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Karl has 30 years of experience working in the asset management industry and the Board has already benefited from his extensive industry knowledge.
In October, Jon Little stepped down from the Board.
36 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION In November, John Chatfeild-Roberts stepped down after six years way we work together, which should sharpen the focus of Board service as a member of the Board, to concentrate on his role as discussion and the quality of our debate.
Head of Strategy for the Merlin range of funds.
During 2016, to foster deeper engagement, we launched a pairing The Board now comprises three Executive Directors and six arrangement between Non-Executive Directors and members of Non-Executive Directors, including me.
This has increased understanding of the Boards role for senior executives and of the Groups business and OUR COMMITTEES operations for the Non-Executive Directors.
We intend to continue the programme in 2017.
Our Board committees play integral roles in supporting the Boards work.
They are provided with the resources they need to undertake I hope that this introduction has added some colour to the formal their duties, including access to the Company Secretary and reports from the Committees that follow in the next few pages.
The committees, their mandates and memberships I look forward to meeting you and answering any questions you are shown later in this section.
may have at our forthcoming AGM on 17 May 2017.
The Audit and Risk Committee continues to oversee the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and compliance.
This has included supporting the implementation of a Group-wide Enterprise Risk Management framework and examination of the CASS Liz Airey assurance framework in Jupiter and in our critical outsourced Chairman service providers.
23 February 2017 The Nomination Committee has worked on Board and senior management succession planning, to ensure diversity of perspective on the business as well as ensuring the candidates have the relevant COMPLIANCE STATEMENT skills and experience.
In December, all Non-Executive Directors were appointed to the Nomination Committee.
We believe this Jupiter supports the principles of corporate governance as set will improve efficiency by ensuring all Non-Executive Directors are out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by involved at an early stage in Board and senior executive recruitment.
A copy of the 2014 version of the Code can be found on the FRC website at: www.
uk The Remuneration Committee continued to perform its role of ensuring that Jupiter can attract and retain talented employees.
Having reviewed the provisions of the Code, dated September The Committee spent considerable time on starting to develop a 2014 the Board is satisfied that throughout the accounting period new remuneration policy, which shareholders were invited to discuss ended 31 December 2016, Jupiter complied with all of the Main with the Remuneration Committee Chairman, Lorraine Trainer, Principles of the Code.
More information on how the Company in a consultation in December 2016 and January 2017.
The new applied the provisions of the Code is set out later in this remuneration policy aimed to maintain the strong culture of pay Governance section.
for performance and align the reward to employees with the experience of our clients and shareholders.
We received a range of feedback: some shareholders were fully supportive and others had comments on different aspects of the new policy.
As we wanted to achieve broad support for our policy, we decided that we would delay bringing in the new policy until a General Meeting later in 2017 or at the 2018 AGM.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming AGM we will be seeking approval of what is largely the same policy as approved by shareholders at our 2014 AGM.
Further details may be found in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Statement.
The reports from each of the Board committees which follow, explain more about their work over the past year and their priorities.
The Executive Committee, which is the key operational committee, is led by Maarten Slendebroek as Chief Executive Officer.
It was significantly strengthened as a result of a series of changes during the year.
In January, Paula Moore, Gillian van Maaren and Lance DeLuca joined the Committee, comprising the CEO, Adrian Creedy COO, Philip Johnson CFO, Stephen Pearson CIO and Nick Ring Head of Distribution, thereby increasing the Committee from five to eight.
In May, Adrian Creedy stepped down as COO and as a member of the Committee, though he remains the Committee secretary.
During the year, Charlotte Jones replaced Philip Johnson and in November, Jasveer Singh General Counsel joined the Committee.
The broadening of the Executive Committee has enabled decisions to be reached more quickly, with direct input from the key areas of the business.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Towards the end of 2016, we undertook our annual review of Board effectiveness.
This year we worked with a specialist consultancy, edoMidas Ltd, to help us ensure we utilise individual Directors strengths most effectively in the Board environment.
The effectiveness review confirmed that we have good diversity of thought on the Board and a culture of good and open communication.
We identified a series of modest changes to the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 THE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK LEADERSHIP The Board is responsible for the leadership of the Group and for its long-term success within an effective risk and control framework, and for setting the Groups strategic aims.
Liz Airey has chaired the Board since September 2014.
The Board comprises three Executive, five Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge the executive management of the Company and provide valuable insight to the development of the Group strategy.
They provide a diverse and effective balance of skills, knowledge and experience, to closely consider managements performance in running the Groups business and in meeting its goals and objectives.
Lorraine Trainer was appointed Senior Independent Director in September 2014.
Lorraine acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, supporting her in her objectives for the Board.
When appropriate, Lorraine is also an intermediary for other Directors and meets major shareholders, ensuring a good understanding of their issues and concerns.
Further details are provided later in this report.
The Board has established three standing Board committees and the Executive Committee.
The Boards responsibility for overseeing control and disclosure of inside information is delegated to the Disclosure Committee, which was established in 2016 and is convened as required to consider such matters.
In addition, during 2016 there were six committees reporting to the Executive Committee.
These committees complete the Boards framework of control.
The Board committees are the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Liz Airey chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considered her to be independent, within the terms of the Code, at the time of her appointment as Chairman of the Board.
All other members of the Board committees are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board committees operate within defined terms of reference, which are published on the Companys website www.
com THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Chief Executive Officer, Maarten Slendebroek, the Executive Directors, Edward Bonham Carter and Charlotte Jones, and the Executive Committee are responsible for managing the Groups day-to-day business and for implementing the Boards strategy.
Charlotte Jones was appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2016.
Edward Bonham Carter was appointed Vice Chairman in March 2014.
His role focuses on engaging with the Groups stakeholders including clients, prospective clients and industry bodies.
Edward also has Board responsibility for environmental, social and governance matters.
GOVERNANCE WITHIN THE GROUP The Executive Committee has established the six management and reporting committees shown in the diagram overleaf, which assist the Executive Committee with managing the Groups business.
Each of these committees operates under defined terms of reference.
The diagram also sets out the main responsibilities of each committee.
In addition, in the UK Jupiter has two regulated companies Jupiter Asset Management Limited JAM and Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited JUTM.
JAMs principal activity is providing investment management services.
JUTMs principal activity is to act as the management company for the unit trusts, SICAVs and investment trusts managed by Jupiter.
The boards of these companies oversee the activities of JAM and JUTM.
38 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE BOARD Board ROLE l Setting and approving strategy l Overseeing controls framework l Overseeing risk and setting risk appetite l Overseeing culture and values MEMBERS l Chairman l Five Non-Executive Directors l Three Executive Directors Chief Executive Ocer Committees ROLE Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk l Responsible for running the Groups business within authority ROLE ROLE ROLE limits delegated to him by the Board focusing on: l Composition l Setting and l Financial reporting i Business strategy and management of the Board overseeing l Audit management ii Investment and nancing Remuneration Policy l Succession issues and compliance iii Risk management and controls l Review of benets l Reviewing policies l Risk management of rewards iv Communication within the business and to shareholders and and practice for and internal controls other stakeholders talent management and diversity v Chairing the Executive Committee, communicating its decisions and recommending actions to the Board MEMBERS MEMBERS MEMBERS vi Developing senior teams within the Group and ensuring succession planning l Chairman l Chairman l Chairman Liz Airey Lorraine Trainer Polly Williams vii Developing policies and procedures for Board approval and implementation including the Stewardship Code Statement and the Share l All Non-Executive l Three Non-Executive l Three Non-Executive Dealing Code Directors Directors Directors viii Setting values and culture Executive Committee ROLE l Implementing strategy and objectives set by the Board and communicated by CEO l Managing performance l Reviewing matters arising from the Reporting Committees l Receiving proposals from the Management Committee for improvements in business efficiency and eectiveness and communicating through the CEO to the Board and its Committees l Reinforcing culture and values Reporting Committees Product Development ManagementRisk ROLE ROLE ROLE l Examining new product proposals l Running the business and budget in l Managing of risk within tolerances set accordance with Group strategy by the Board l Managing and supporting compliance requirements of new products l Allocating resources and prioritising projects l Reviewing eectiveness of the risk management process l Developing the Groups corporate values in all its operations l Reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee on the status of key risks l Developing communications and cross-functional engagement Balance Sheet Management Treating Customers Fairly Portfolio Review ROLE ROLE ROLE l Establishing and maintaining balance l Ensuring funds are managed and operated l Reviewing investment performance sheet policies within agreed guidelines, to ensure fair of all portfolios treatment of customers l Reviewing Group procedures from balance l Identitying changes in investment approach sheet perspective l Working with Sub-committees to ensure this l Considering portfolio objectives, attributions approach is operated throughout the Group and risks Key: Delegation of AuthorityReporting Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 BOARD OF DIRECTORS LIZ AIREY EDWARD BONHAM CARTER Chairman Vice Chairman Appointed Appointed Non-Executive Director in May 2010 Group Chief Executive in 2007 Chairman in September 2014 Vice Chairman in March 2014 Committees Committees Chairman of the Nomination Committee None Member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience With 35 years experience in the investment market Liz brings a wealth of relevant financial skills and and 23 years working at Jupiter, including seven experience in financial governance and executive years as CEO, Edward has extensive knowledge of leadership.
His role as Vice Chairman focuses on engaging with the Previous appointments Companys key stakeholders, including clients, Lizs previous roles have included Non-Executive prospective clients and industry bodies.
Director of Dunedin Investment Enterprise Trust plc where she held the roles of Senior Independent Previous appointments Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 as a UK fund 2005-2016, Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension manager, after working at Schroders 1982-1986 Fund 2008-2014, Non-Executive Chairman of JP and Electra Investment Trust 1986-1994.
He was Morgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc appointed Chief Investment Officer in 1999 and 2006-2011 and Non-Executive Chairman of Zetex Joint Chief Executive in May 2000.
He became plc 2003-2007, a formerly listed manufacturer of Group Chief Executive in 2007 and led Jupiter specialist semi-conductors.
In 1999 she was through its management buyout that year and its appointed a Non-Executive Director of AMEC plc, subsequent IPO in June 2010.
Edward relinquished and served as Senior Independent Director his role as Group Chief Executive in March 2014, on 2004-2009.
Prior to this in her executive career she Maarten Slendebroeks appointment.
was Finance Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc, a post she held from 1990 until the sale of the Current external appointments company to Lasmo plc in 1999.
Edward joined the Board of Land Securities Group Current external appointments plc as a Non-Executive Director and member of Liz is currently Non-Executive Director of Tate & the Remuneration Committee in January 2014 and Lyle plc and is also a member of the Corporate was subsequently appointed Senior Independent Governance Committee of the ICAEW.
Edward is also a Board member of The Investor Forum, a Trustee of the Esme Fairbairn Foundation, and a member of the Strategic Advisory Board of Livingbridge.
MAARTEN SLENDEBROEK Chief Executive Officer Appointed CHARLOTTE JONES Distribution and Strategy Director in September Chief Financial Officer 2012 Chief Executive Officer in March 2014 Appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2016 Committees None Committees None Skills and experience Maarten has more than 25 years of asset Skills and experience management and financial services experience.
Charlotte has extensive experience in the global financial services sector gained in senior financial Previous appointments roles and is a chartered accountant.
Before joining Jupiter in 2012 as Head of Distribution and Strategy, Maarten spent 18 years at BlackRock Previous appointments and its predecessor companies.
He was a member Charlotte commenced her career at Ernst & Young of the global operating committee and the where she progressed to be an audit Partner in the European executive committee at BlackRock.
She subsequently worked last two roles were Head of Solutions EMEA and at Deutsche Bank for nine years in various roles, Head of International Retail.
Earlier in his career, latterly as Deputy CFO, and was appointed as Head Maarten gained extensive experience as a sell-side of Group Finance and Chief Accounting Officer at European equity analyst.
40 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LORRAINE TRAINER JONATHON BOND BRIDGET MACASKILL Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Appointed Appointed Non-Executive Director in May 2010 Non-Executive Director in July 2014 Non-Executive Director in May 2015 Senior Independent Director in September 2014 Committees Committees Committees Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Bridget brings substantive knowledge and deep Skills and experience Jonathon spent 25 years in the private equity understanding of the investment management Lorraine brings substantial experience in human industry, with a particular focus on raising industry and extensive experience at board level.
resource leadership, in the areas of cultural standards of governance and performance.
She has 25 years experience in the investment development, team performance and reward, both He has extensive international and general management industry and has held several senior from her executive career and her work on director management experience, having founded board appointments in the UK and USA.
and served on the board of several significant Previous appointments businesses.
Previous appointments Bridget joined First Eagle Investment LLC in 2009 In her executive career, Lorraine has had a number Previous appointments where she held the position of President and Chief of HR leadership roles in international Jonathon was a founding Partner of Actis LLP, the Executive of First Eagle Investment LLC until March organisations, focusing on performance emerging markets specialist alternatives fund 2016.
Prior to joining First Eagle, she was President development.
These included Citibank NA, the manager, where he spent over ten years.
During and Chief Executive at Oppenheimer Funds, London Stock Exchange and Coutts, part of the that time he was a member of the Supervisory Incorporated.
Bridget has also served as a NatWest Group.
Her previous roles have included Board, Investment and Executive Committees, as Non-Executive Director of Prudential plc, J. Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc well as setting up and running the in-house fund Sainsbury plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc and 2005-2013, and Non-Executive Director of Colt raising team.
For a number of years, Jonathon was Hillsdown Holdings plc.
Group S. A 2013-2015. a Non-Executive Director of Celtel, the first Current external appointments pan-African mobile company.
Jonathon previously Current external appointments Bridget is currently Chairman of First Eagle Holdings worked as a founding Director of HSBC Private In addition to her Board work, Lorraine works in LLC, the parent company of First Eagle Investment Equity in India 1994-2000, Electra Private Equity the area of director development at and around Management LLC where she serves as a Senior Partners in London and Paris 1988-1994 and Bain board level for a variety of international groups.
Bridget is also a Non-Executive Director of & Co in London 1985-1988.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Essentra plc, Close Brothers Group plc, Jones Lang LaSalle where she chairs the Remuneration Committee Current external appointments Incorporated, and is a trustee of TIAA-CREF funds.
and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Jonathon is Executive Chairman of the Skagen Committees, and of Sonae SGPS S. A, where she Group, based in London.
The Skagen Group is a chairs the Nomination and Remuneration family-owned group of companies operating in the Committee and is a member of the Audit and UK, Europe and the USA, which includes green Finance Committee.
cleaning specialist Ecover and Method among its portfolio.
KARL STERNBERG Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2016 Committees Member of the Audit and Risk Committee POLLY WILLIAMS Member of the Nomination Committee Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Appointed Karl brings some 30 years international experience Non-Executive Director in March 2015 in the investment industry, gained through both Committees executive and non-executive roles.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Previous appointments Member of the Nomination Committee Karl was a founding Partner of institutional asset Skills and experience manager Oxford Investment Partners, which was Polly has a wealth of relevant experience, including bought by Towers Watson in 2013.
Prior to that he roles with particular responsibility for audit and risk held a number of positions at Morgan Grenfell oversight, and is a chartered accountant.
Previously, Deutsche Asset Management between 1992 and Polly was a Partner with KPMG, with responsibility 2004, including Chief Investment Officer for for the Group Audit of HSBC Group plc.
London, Australia, Europe and the Asia Pacific.
Since 2006 he has developed his non-executive Previous appointments career, with a focus on investment management Pollys previous non-executive directorships include and the investment trust sector in particular.
From Worldspreads Group plc, APS Financial Limited, 2010 to 2015, he was a Non-Executive Director of Z Group plc, National Counties Building Society Friends Life Group plc, where he was a member as Chairman and Scotiabank Ireland Limited.
of the Audit Committee and chairman of the Current external appointments Investment Oversight Committee.
Karl was Polly is a Non-Executive Director of TSB Banking Chairman of JPMorgan Income & Growth Group plc, where she is Chairman of the Audit Investment Trust plc until November 2016.
Committee and a member of the Risk and Current external appointments Remuneration Committees.
She is also a NonKarl is the Senior Independent Director of Alliance Executive Director of Daiwa Capital Markets Trust plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Herald Europe Limited and XP Power Limited.
Polly serves Investment Trust plc, The Monks Investment Trust as a trustee of the Guide Dogs for the Blind plc, Clipstone Logistics Reit plc, Lowland Investment Association and is Chairman of the Trustees for Company plc and JPMorgan Elect plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, The Board now has nine members, comprising the Chairman, three which it reviews and updates annually, to incorporate governance Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board changes and developments within the Group.
considers each of its Non-Executive Directors Jonathon Bond, Bridget Macaskill, Karl Sternberg, Lorraine Trainer and Polly Williams to be independent in both character and judgement and free of The key issues reserved for its decision are: any relationship which could materially interfere with exercising their l establishing the Groups commercial objectives and strategy: independent judgement.
The Board considered the Chairman to be independent within the terms of the Code at the time of her l approving the dividend policy: appointment.
The biographies of all Directors are set out earlier l overseeing financial reporting, including approving the annual in this section.
report and interim financial statements: No individual or group of individuals dominates the Board or its l setting the annual budget: decision making.
The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent l approving significant capital projects, expenditure and judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
borrowings: The Board requires all Directors to devote sufficient time to their l deciding major acquisitions, disposals and investments: duties and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
During l overseeing the Groups operations and management, and the year, the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment were maintaining an effective system of internal controls and risk reviewed.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend up to management: and 30 days a year in their roles as Directors.
Committee chairmen are expected to commit up to 18 further days a year.
l ensuring adequate succession planning, including agreeing Board and other senior appointments and the appointment or In 2016, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors on a removal of the Company Secretary.
regular basis and also with the Chief Executive Officer.
A meeting is held once a year when the Senior Independent Director meets the Non-Executive Directors, with neither the Chairman nor Executive THE BOARD MEMBERS Directors being present.
Non-Executive Directors also met regularly Maarten Slendebroek was appointed CEO in March 2014.
His role, with senior management.
and that of the Chairman, Liz Airey, are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities which is documented and examined OPERATION OF THE BOARD annually by the Board.
The Board has a rolling agenda which ensures that the key issues set The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Board, setting out above, including items relating to strategy, finance, operations, its agenda, ensuring its effectiveness and that enough time is corporate governance and compliance, are appropriately reviewed allocated for open debate and discussion, particularly of strategy at its meetings.
Six scheduled Board meetings took place during the and complex or contentious issues.
She facilitates the contribution of year, with an additional meeting off-site in June for a full days all Non-Executive Directors and maintains appropriate contact with discussion of strategy issues relating to Jupiters operating platform.
major shareholders, in order to understand their issues and Progress on action points agreed at previous strategy days on fund concerns relating to governance, strategy and remuneration, management and distribution was also reviewed.
A summary of the among other key issues.
agenda items for the scheduled Board meetings and details of attendance by Directors is set out on the following page.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing the strategy that the Board has agreed and for the day-to-day A comprehensive set of papers is circulated approximately one management of the Groups business, while optimising the week before Board and committee meetings.
These include regular adequacy and use of the Groups resources.
He keeps the evolving business progress reports, investment performance data, distribution culture in Jupiter under review, particularly its impact on risk activity reports, financial statements and shareholder information.
He also keeps succession under review, Full minutes of previous meetings are also circulated promptly and making recommendations to the Nomination Committee on the any concerns which are raised regarding the running of the role and capabilities required in respect of the appointment of Company are noted.
Adrian Creedy the Company Secretary Executive Directors.
manages the timely circulation of information to the Board and ensures Board procedures are complied with and that applicable At the beginning of 2016, the Board comprised: Liz Airey Chairman, rules and regulations are followed.
The Company Secretary reports Jonathon Bond independent Non-Executive Director, Edward to the Chairman on corporate governance matters.
Bonham Carter Vice Chairman, John Chatfeild-Roberts Executive Director, Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer, Jon Little independent Non-Executive Director, Bridget Macaskill Effectiveness independent Non-Executive Director, Maarten Slendebroek Chief INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Executive Officer, Lorraine Trainer Senior Independent Director New Directors are given a full, formal and tailored induction to the and Polly Williams Independent Non-Executive Director.
business, organised by the Company Secretary, including meetings with senior management and advisers.
The Chairman, working with DURING 2016 THE FOLLOWING CHANGES TO THE the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that training BOARD HAVE TAKEN PLACE: programmes are provided to Directors either directly or by the Philip Johnson stepped down at the AGM in May: Company through legal and regulatory updates.
Non-Executive Directors also have access to external programmes.
Jupiter expects Karl Sternberg was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Directors to identify their own training needs and to ensure they are Director and joined the Board in July: adequately informed about Jupiters business and their responsibilities Charlotte Jones was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and joined as a Director.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees training the Board in September: and development needs with each Director.
Jon Little stepped down from the Board in October: and Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense, where they judge this necessary to discharge John Chatfeild-Roberts stepped down from the Board in November.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretarys advice and services.
42 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARD AGENDAS IN 2016 January Frankfurt February May July October December l Review of sales l Approval of the l Corporate l Review of interim l Remuneration l Budget and plan and marketing in Annual Report structure review results and interim policy review approval Austria, Germany and Accounts dividend l Board effectiveness l ESG report l Risk report and Switzerland l Compliance with review l Brexit implications and briefing l Talent l Review of fund the Code review for Jupiter l Corporate l Product review management management l Approval of governance and l Feedback from update and succession structure and AGM notice regulatory update major shareholders planning performance l Corporate considered l Approval of full l Fund manager governance and l Stewardship Code l Risk appetite year and special presentation l Strategy day regulatory update approval review dividends follow up l ESG report l Fund manager l Approval of l Board effectiveness l Approval of Board and briefing l Consideration and presentation modern slavery report considered and Committees approval of Group statement l Trading update effectiveness ICAAP approval l Review of review action plan l Regulation, Chairmans l FCA market compliance and and CEOs study review Risk report review responsibilities l Risk update l Cyber security l Fund manager briefing presentation l Approval of l Review of matters new policies on reserved to the control of inside Board information, share dealing and disclosure ATTENDANCE RECORD The following table details the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during 2016 and the attendance record of each Director: Scheduled Board and Committee Meetings NOMINATION Year 2016 BOARD MEETINGS AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 8 Jan Feb May July Oct Dec Feb May July Nov Jan Feb Jul Oct Dec Feb Jul Dec Liz Airey l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Jonathon Bond l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Edward Bonham Carter l l l l l l John ChatfeildRoberts 1 l l l l l Philip Johnson 2 l l l Charlotte Jones 3 l l Jon Little 4 l l l l Bridget Macaskill 5 l l l l l l l l l l l Maarten Slendebroek l l l l l l Karl Sternberg 6&7 l l l l l Lorraine Trainer l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Polly Williams l l l l l l l l l l l Board member Committee member Meeting not attended or prior commitment l l 1 Resigned from the Board on 30 November 2 Resigned from the Board on 18 May 3 Appointed to the Board on 5 September 4 Resigned from the Board on 31 October: did not attend Board meeting on 12 October due to other business commitments 5 Not able to attend the Remuneration Committee meeting in February due to a commitment which pre-dated Bridget Macaskills appointment to the Board 6 Appointed to the Board on 22 July 7 Appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee on 26 July 8 On 1 December 2016, Bridget Macaskill, Karl Sternberg and Polly Williams were appointed to the Nomination Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Accountability The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider The statement of Directors responsibility for preparing the Annual and authorise situations where a Director has an actual or potential Report and Accounts is set out at the end of this Governance conflict of interest in relation to the Group.
The Board has a formal section.
Within this, the Directors have included a statement that system to record conflicts and, if appropriate, to authorise them.
the Annual Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and Conflicts of interest are included as an agenda item at each Board understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
When authorising conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, To help the Board discharge its responsibilities in this area, the the Director concerned may not take part in the Boards decision Board consulted the Audit and Risk Committee, which advised on making.
Non-conflicted Directors are required to act in a way they the key considerations to comply with best practice and the Codes consider would be in the best interests of the Company and most requirements.
Following the Committees advice, the Board likely to promote its success.
These procedures on conflicts of considered and concluded that: interest have been followed throughout the year, are overseen by the Nomination Committee and are considered to have l the business model and strategy were clearly described: operated effectively.
l the assessment of performance was balanced: BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS l KPIs were used consistently: The Boards effectiveness, composition and operation are evaluated l the language used was concise, with good linkages to different annually.
Every three years, the evaluation is facilitated externally, parts of the document: and the last one having been completed in 2014 with the assistance of l an appropriate forward-looking orientation had been adopted.
During 2016, internal reviews were undertaken by means of questionnaires circulated to the Board, and The Directors report on viability and the going concern basis of the relevant committee members and senior managers.
The Boards accounting, which the Directors have determined to be appropriate, effectiveness review was also supported by edoMidas Ltd, a can be found in the Strategic report, which also describes the specialist provider of high-performance business training.
With Groups performance during the year.
edoMidas Ltds help, we were able to look at the utilisation of individual Directors strengths in the Boards discussions.
Further Internal control and risk details of the 2016 Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committee evaluations are provided in the committee reports.
management As part of the Board effectiveness review, and following INTERNAL CONTROL conversations between the Chairman and each Director, the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Nomination Committee reviewed the performance of all Directors and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only except the Chairman, whose performance review was led by the a reasonable assurance against material financial misstatement or Senior Independent Director, without the Chairman being present.
loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that all serving Directors should be proposed by the Board for election or The Board, assisted by the Audit and Risk Committee, periodically re-election as appropriate, at the forthcoming AGM.
assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls.
This review covered all material controls including the following compliance, SUCCESSION PLANNING operational and financial aspects: The Nomination Committee is responsible for both Executive and l Compliance Reviewing the method by which the Executive Non-Executive Director succession planning and recommends new Committee gains assurance that the business operates within the appointments to the Board.
When making Board appointments, risk appetite set by the Board and examining the whole of the the Board seeks to ensure that there is a diverse range of skills, Groups regulatory control environment.
backgrounds and experience, including relevant industry experience.
l Operational Reviewing the Risk Committees Enterprise Risk Further information is included in the Nomination Committee report.
Management Dashboard methodology and overseeing the roles of various committees in overseeing risk within the business.
DIRECTOR ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION l Financial Receiving regular reports on the Groups financial All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the position, its progress against budget and ongoing forecast of Companys Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by its results.
Through these regular updates, as well as the annual shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the ICAAP process, the Board regularly reviews the Groups balance Board.
Accordingly, Karl Sternberg and Charlotte Jones are seeking sheet levels and capital requirements.
The Audit and Risk election and their biographical details can be found earlier in Committee assists the Board in this area, reviewing the half-year this section.
and annual results and the Annual Report, before recommending Also in accordance with the Code, all other serving Directors will these to the Board for approval.
The Audit and Risk Committee seek re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The Chairman believes that each regularly receives reports in relation to the key aspects of the Director continues to perform effectively, demonstrating commitment financial reporting process.
Reports on financial controls are also to their roles, and that their skills complement each other to issued by Internal and External Audit.
enhance the Boards overall operation.
Full details of the skills and l Financial Reviewing an annual report from the Money experience of all Directors can be found in their biographies earlier Laundering Reporting Officer on the Groups anti-money in this section.
laundering and fraud prevention financial crime measures.
The Board believes that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks to achieving the Groups strategic objectives works effectively.
The process was in place for the year ended 31 December 2016 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the guidance, Internal Controls Revised Guidance for Directors.
44 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SUPPLIER OVERSIGHT AND SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS APPROACH TO RISK Jupiter had three significant oversight relationships at the start of The Board determines the appropriate approach to risks, within 2016: International Financial Data Services IFDS, HSBC Securities which the Group must operate.
Risk tolerances are the Groups Services HSBC and JP Morgan Luxembourg JPML.
This list has actual boundaries and limits, through which the business monitors been extended to include National Westminster Bank NatWest and and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board.
Risks and the Northern Trust Northern, following the implementation of UCITS V Groups attitude to them are considered and monitored in the in October 2016. following categories: In support of the unit trust fund range, IFDSs services include Strategic risk dealing and registration processing, distribution of income, record The risk that the Group is unable to meet its strategic 1 keeping and responding to customer enquiries.
HSBC provides objectives, as a result of matters inherent in the nature of fund accounting services and passive hedging services.
NatWest its business or the markets in which it operates.
directly provides trustee services and delegates custody services Investment risk to Northern.
Underperformance of Jupiter funds relative to benchmarks, 2 JPML provides a range of services in support of the SICAVs, objectives or competition or other failure to meet investors including custody, company secretarial, fund accounting, dealing objectives.
and registration processing, the distribution of income, record Operational risk keeping and responding to customer enquiries.
JPML was also The risk of loss caused by weaknesses or failures in the 3 appointed as depository following the implementation of Groups systems and controls, related to people, systems UCITS V in October 2016. or processes.
These include risks arising from failing to properly manage key outsourced relationships and These organisations activities are defined in service level cyber security.
agreements that are closely monitored to ensure that service Conduct risk delivery standards are met.
Jupiters Supplier Management function The risk that the Group fails to deliver positive outcomes oversees a suite of agreed activities including: formal meeting 4 for its clients.
governance: the review of key performance indicators: reviews by Jupiters assurance functions including service delivery: business Regulatory risk continuity: IT security, enterprise risk, compliance and internal audit The risk of censure because of the Groups failure to meet 5 where appropriate : site visits, and the review of key reports its regulatory obligations, which may lead to reputational including controls assurance reports and the financial report and damage, a monetary fine or, ultimately, the withdrawal of accounts.
Any risks or issues arising are progressed through to its authorisation to carry on business.
resolution and where appropriate, escalated to Senior Management Counterparty credit risk and reported to the Board.
The risk of loss caused by the corporate failure of one of 6 the trade, prime brokerage or treasury counterparties to ASSURANCE PROCESS which the Group may be exposed, or of a custodial The Groups control environment is reviewed during the course institution with which the Group has a relationship.
of each year by one or more of the three assurance functions Balance sheet risk Compliance, Enterprise Risk and Internal Audit.
Assurance reports The risk that the Group may be unable to meet its financial 7 are provided to senior management, the Board and the Audit and obligations or lack sufficient capital to operate as a going Risk Committee as appropriate.
Reputational risk Each year Jupiter commissions the external auditor to test the The risk of loss to revenue, destruction of shareholder integrity of aspects of the control environment.
The results of this 8 value or increases to operating capital or regulatory costs, testing, including any exceptions identified, are made available to resulting from damage to the firms reputation.
the Groups institutional and investment trust clients, as Jupiter has adopted the International Standard on Assurance Engagement Depending on the risk category, the Risk Committee or the Balance ISAE 3402, together with AAF 01 06 as recommended by the Sheet Management Committee will monitor these risks.
If the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in the Balance Sheet Committee has any concerns, those concerns will November 2010 technical release of AAF 01 06. also then be considered by the Risk Committee.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk strategy and for determining an appropriate risk appetite, as well as the tolerance levels within which the Group must operate.
By defining these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of, and, where appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the risks that may have a material impact on the Group.
To assist with its oversight of risk, the Executive Committee has formed an Executive Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
All members of the Executive Committee attend the Risk Committee, together with the Director of Compliance and Head of Risk.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing regulatory, capital and liquidity risks, within a coherent and manageable structure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Internal Audit function is currently outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP EY and is focused on ensuring that operations comply with the The departmental risk self-assessment process is the foundation of Groups policies and procedures, including in relation to efficient the Groups risk framework.
Each functional business area completes operations, financial reporting, fraud, safeguarding assets and a risk assessment at least annually, and more frequently when compliance with laws and regulations.
The internal audit team is required which, when taken in conjunction with the ongoing control independent of business operations and has a reporting line to the performance assessments, is felt to be adequate for capturing any Audit and Risk Committee.
In addition, the Group periodically uses ongoing and emerging risks to the business.
external parties to review counterparty relationships.
This includes The departmental risk self-assessments are conducted by the heads reviewing legal documentation as well as testing the operations of and deputies of each functional area and are facilitated by the external service providers.
This involves all material risks being reviewed Further details of the Internal Audit function can be found in the with the risk owners against agreed key risk indicators and Audit and Risk Committee report.
The risk owners also consider any relevant operational losses that have occurred, as well as any current system, process or staffing changes within the department, as well as considering the Remuneration integrity of existing processes and controls.
Where processes or Executive Directors remuneration is structured to promote the controls are seen to be insufficiently robust, line management is long-term success of the business, with variable remuneration paid required to define improvements to the operating environment to Executive Directors based on stretching performance conditions to ensure they pose a minimal or acceptable level of risk to which are aligned with the business strategy.
No Executive Director the Group.
is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Further Identified risks that have a sufficiently high likelihood of potential information on Jupiters remuneration policy and Executive Director impact on the Group are reflected in the Enterprise Risk remuneration outcomes for 2016 is set out in the Remuneration report.
Management Dashboard, to ensure they receive an appropriately high level of senior management and Board attention.
The Board takes action where these risks are deemed to be outside the Corporate values and culture Groups risk tolerance.
Jupiters corporate values have underpinned its strategy for success, The Groups risk management assurance programme is closely based on seeking long-term outperformance for clients.
These linked with its compliance monitoring programme.
Any breaches values have long been deeply embedded in Jupiters culture and found by the Compliance department are logged into the in-house were documented for the first time in 2015.
Twice a year, during error database and allocated to a failed control and the associated mid-year and annual reviews, staff are encouraged to review their risk category.
The business therefore considers any breaches as part performance against these values, to ensure our clients remain the of the risk and control assessment process.
key focus of their performance.
Management, with the assistance of the Finance function, is The Board communicates through the Executive and Management responsible for maintaining appropriate financial records and Committees to all our staff to ensure Jupiters culture is preserved, processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, with a focus on high performance, individual responsibility and in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations and putting clients first.
This culture has helped retain and attract distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
The Board seeks to ensure that its culture is reflected in all areas of the business and it is a vital lens through Management reviews the consolidation and financial statements which the Board and its Committees look at elements of Jupiters to ensure that the Groups financial position and results are business activities.
appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the Board and published where appropriate.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the Boards approval on the People and talent management recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Jupiter is a people business and the Board is focused on ensuring that it understands how the Group develops existing talent and MONITORING FUNCTIONS brings new talent into the organisation.
2016 saw considerable The Groups monitoring functions comprise the Compliance, developments in talent management, as detailed in the Strategic Enterprise Risk and Internal Audit departments.
The Nomination Committee was involved in the recruitment of the more senior hires, with the Remuneration Committee integrally The Compliance department oversees the Groups compliance involved in ensuring that Jupiter has the right reward structure to with the relevant regulations.
The Group maintains comprehensive enable it to recruit and retain talent.
At every meeting, the Board procedures and compliance manuals, covering all business receives an update on key people issues, including the broad operations.
The Compliance department also maintains detailed themes affecting the management of talent in the asset monitoring programmes for all regulated activities, to monitor the management industry and succession planning for the efficient perceived regulatory risk within the business.
The findings of the execution of the Groups growth strategy.
monitoring programmes are circulated to the responsible Director and Executive Committee member.
46 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION KEY INVESTOR RELATIONS ACTIVITIES IN 2016 Relations with shareholders January Communication with shareholders is a high priority and is conducted l Fourth quarter 2015 trading update to promote a common understanding of the Groups objectives and current performance.
The Group has an Investor Relations function February within the Finance team, which supports the Chief Executive Officer l Full year results presentation for 2015 and the Chief Financial Officer in their relations with shareholders March and sell side analysts.
Through the Investor Relations function, Jupiter l Full year results London roadshow maintains a regular dialogue with interested shareholders, potential investors and industry analysts, as well as ensuring that the Group April adheres to both regulatory changes and best practice issuance l First quarter 2016 trading update from other bodies.
During 2016, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief l Investor roadshow, Scotland Financial Officer and Head of Finance held over 100 shareholder May and investor meetings, using the materials published at the time of l AGM the most recent results.
These meetings were separate to the AGM and the briefings provided at the time of the announcement of the June half year and full year results.
Presentations to analysts and investors l Investor roadshow, USA are simultaneously posted on the Companys website, to ensure they July are available to all interested parties.
All Directors are invited to l Half year results presentation for 2016 attend these presentations.
September As part of the process of ensuring that good channels of l Half year results London roadshow communication are in place, and in order to maintain an understanding of the view of the major shareholders about the October Company and its strategy, meetings are arranged with the l Third quarter 2016 trading update Chairman following which a full briefing is provided to the Board.
November Three such meetings took place early in 2016 at which the following l Best of British Conference, London issues were discussed: l investment and development strategy and performance: l Board and management structure and succession: l regulation and the FCAs market study: l corporate culture and gender diversity at Jupiter: and l executive remuneration.
In December shareholders were also invited to meet with the Chairman and Lorraine Trainer, who is both Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, to consult on the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy, talent management and succession arrangements.
Representatives of seven of the Companys largest shareholders attended these meetings during December 2016 and January 2017.
Lorraine Trainer, in her capacity as Senior Independent Director, is also available to meet shareholders on request, if they have concerns that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is not appropriate.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to put their questions to the Directors and to the Chairmen of the Board committees in person.
In order to support shareholders prior to the consideration of the Companys resolutions at the AGM, the Company Secretary maintains contact with a number of well-known voting bodies including ISS and IVIS, to ensure all relevant information concerning the Company and its strategy is made available.
The Company communicates electronically with its shareholders whenever possible.
To reduce wasted resources and pollution associated with paper printing, shareholders are encouraged to accept electronic access to the Notice of Meeting and Annual Report and Accounts, which will be made available at least 20 days prior to the AGM on the Companys website at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee.
The Committees role and responsibilities include: The Nomination Committee has an important role in ensuring the l reviewing and nominating candidates for both executive and Board has the right composition, a good balance of the experience non-executive Board roles: and skills required to perform its duties, and appropriate diversity of thought and perspective.
l considering succession planning for Directors and senior executives: The Committee undertakes succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and makes recommendations to the l reviewing the Companys policy and practices for executive Board when changes may be appropriate.
In carrying out this work, talent management, development and diversity: it determines the best selection process, including choosing the right l evaluating the Boards structure, balance of skills, knowledge recruitment firm to help identify external candidates, as well as itself and experience required to underpin its continued identifying internal candidates.
Selected candidates are interviewed effectiveness: and by members of the Committee and meet other Directors and senior managers as appropriate, before being recommended to the l considering the Directors performance and continuing Board, which makes the final decision on Board appointments.
contribution to the Board and its Committees and, when appropriate recommending to shareholders their re-election During the year, the Boards composition and succession planning at the AGM.
continued to occupy the Committee, with a number of changes.
At the AGM in May, Philip Johnson stepped down from the Board The Committees terms of reference are available for inspection and later that month ceased to be CFO.
He was replaced by on the Companys website www.
com Charlotte Jones, who joined the Board as CFO on 5 September 2016.
There were also two Non-Executive Director changes.
In July, COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDEES Karl Sternberg was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
In October, Jon Little Members Attendance by invitation Secretary stepped down from the Board.
Finally, in November John ChatfeildLiz Airey Maarten Slendebroek CEO Adrian Creedy Roberts stepped down from the Board to concentrate on his role as Jonathon Bond Gillian van Maaren Head of Strategy for the Merlin range of funds.
HR Director As a people business, one of Jupiters key risks relates to attracting Bridget Macaskill and retaining talented people and ensuring appropriate succession Karl Sternberg arrangements are in place.
The Committee has continued its work Lorraine Trainer on succession planning for executive Directors and senior executives.
Polly Williams It has also overseen the executive teams work to continue to broaden the leadership group and initiatives for improved talent Details of attendance by members of Board committees are and career development for all staff.
This included considering and set out in the Governance report.
While only members of the approving the further expansion of the Executive Committee.
Committee have the right to attend its meetings, from time to time The Committee has also continued to focus on diversity and has others are invited to attend the discussion of particular agenda reviewed the progress made in implementing the Companys items, including other Directors and representatives of the diversity and inclusion policy.
During the year the Company signed appointed external recruitment consultants.
up to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter reflecting our support for improving gender balance in the financial sector.
The Board is cognisant of all kinds of diversity.
Towards the end of the year, the Committee recommended to the Board that all Non-Executive Directors be appointed to the Nomination Committee, as it considered this would improve efficiency by ensuring all Non-Executive Directors are involved at an early stage in Board and senior executive recruitment.
Accordingly, Bridget Macaskill, Karl Sternberg and Polly Williams were appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 December 2016.
In line with best practice, in its final meeting of the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference to ensure they still met the Companys needs and that it was fulfilling its role effectively.
Liz Airey Chairman 23 February 2017 48 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The Nomination Committees An internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees was work in 2016 conducted in 2016, which included work with a specialist consultancy, edoMidas Ltd to analyse the Directors strengths and to The Committee meets at least twice each year, with further meetings consider how to utilise these strengths most effectively in the Board taking place as required, for example to consider non-executive or environment.
We identified a series of changes which will sharpen senior executive recruitment as it arises.
Three meetings were the focus of Board discussion and improve how Board members scheduled in 2016 and five further meetings took place.
Committee reports formally to the Board on its proceedings.
Liz Airey chairs the Committee but does not do so when the All serving Directors will be seeking re-election or in the case of Karl Chairmans appointment is being considered.
Sternberg and Charlotte Jones election at the AGM on 17 May 2017.
The Committee has reviewed the Directors standing for election or Each year the Nomination Committee evaluates the Boards re-election with Committee members recusing themselves in respect balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
This of their own review, taking into account their effectiveness and informs its assessment of the Boards development and helps it commitment.
It has also considered the independence of the prepare a description of the role and responsibilities required for Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied that they are independent in each new Board appointment.
During 2016, there were a number both character and judgement, in accordance with the Code.
The of new Board appointments.
Committee therefore recommended to the Board all the Directors standing for election or re-election at the AGM.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR APPOINTMENT The Committee appointed an independent consultant, the Zygos DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Partnership, to recruit a Non-Executive Director as part of its The Committee believes that diversity among Board members continuing role of reviewing and refreshing the Boards composition.
including gender diversity, is of great value and carefully considers Zygos does not have any other connection to the Company, other this in making new Board or senior executive appointments.
The than having been used for several previous non-executive Companys statement on Board diversity is available at recruitments.
The Committee specified the skills, knowledge and www.
Karl Sternberg was selected and joined the Board in July 2016.
Jon Little stepped down from the Board in The Group continues to implement a diversity and inclusion policy, October 2016. to give greater emphasis to supporting diversity throughout Jupiter.
Details can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the During the year, the Committee decided to establish governance Strategic report.
Following the appointment of Charlotte Jones, guidelines setting out expectations and a framework for the female directors constitute 56% of the Board and female executives composition of the Board, the tenure of Non-Executive Directors, constitute 37.5% of the Executive Committee.
The Nomination appointments to governance roles and planning for succession.
The Committee continues to monitor diversity within the business, as well Committee recommended these guidelines to the Board following as the goals set under the diversity and inclusion policy.
Details of other commitments held by the Chairman and NonCONFLICTS OF INTEREST Executive Directors are set out in their respective biographies.
During the year, the Committee continued its review of the Boards operation of the Conflict of Interest policy.
Further details of the EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT operation of this policy can be found in the Governance section.
Following the announcement in November 2015 that Philip Johnson would be leaving Jupiter in May 2016, the Committee instructed Russell Reynolds Associates to undertake a search for appropriate candidates for the role of Chief Financial Officer.
Russell Reynolds does not have any other connections with the Company.
This search culminated in Charlotte Jones joining the Board in September.
The Committee has continued to oversee the talent management and development of senior executives.
This has included: l the development of the Executive Committee with three new members joining in January and two further new members joining in the second half of the year: l consideration of talent acquisition, including plans for a graduate training scheme and succession planning: and l employee engagement including actions from the 2015 Employee Opinion Survey and plans for a 2017 Employee Opinion Survey.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, THE COMMITTEES MEMBERS The Audit and Risk Committee has a vital part to play in helping to Lorraine Trainer and Jonathon Bond served with me on the ensure good governance throughout the Group.
We are responsible Committee throughout the year.
In July, Karl Sternberg joined the for overseeing the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups financial Committee following his appointment to the Board.
Karl has fully reporting, testing and challenging internal control procedures and engaged in the Committees work since his appointment and his ensuring they are in place and operating effectively throughout contributions to our discussions have been both positive and the Group.
We are also responsible for the ongoing monitoring well informed.
of the Groups risk management processes and overseeing the relationships with the Groups external auditor and the internal EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW audit function.
In November, an internal review of the Committee was undertaken.
As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee since March 2015, I am pleased to say this review delivered positive results, from a I report to the Board on how the Committee discharges its questionnaire circulated to members, the Chairman of the Board, responsibilities.
I am pleased to present our report for 2016, which key executives and the internal audit and external audit lead I hope provides you with insight to the Committees work during partners.
An in depth understanding of the Committees the year.
A number of helpful suggestions were also made for improvement to the Committees papers which THE COMMITTEES WORK IN 2016 are circulated in advance of each meeting, and these will be Throughout the year, the Committee looked at the implementation progressed during 2017.
A review of the effectiveness of the internal of the Groups corporate values and how management sets and audit function was also undertaken in October.
The results of this monitors the Groups culture.
In addition to the regular agenda review are discussed later in this report.
items, a full review of which is set out in the following pages, the Committee took the opportunity to discuss, debate and challenge TERMS OF REFERENCE in depth the risk and control structures, processes and procedures As part of our annual review of the Committees terms of reference, both within the Group and those relevant to its significant suppliers.
we have increased the time we spend on compliance matters, All the Committees meetings are attended by the Head of Risk and ensuring we can focus on new and anticipated regulation including the Compliance Director and other senior managers to support the Market Abuse Regulation, UCITS V, MiFID II, the Senior these discussions.
Our work in 2016 included: Managers Regime and the EU Audit Regulation & Directive at the appropriate time.
Risk and Compliance The Committees terms of reference are published on the i T he Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process Companys website at www.
com ICAAP documentation was reviewed, taking into account the new Enterprise Risk Management Framework, which was LOOKING FORWARD completed in July.
The investment in Jupiters operating platform in 2017 is a critical ii Following the implementation of the new CASS assurance enabler for the Group to deliver its growth strategy, as well as to requirements in January, a review of controls was undertaken.
continue to be in compliance with regulation as it evolves, for example, under MiFID II.
The Audit and Risk Committee will continue Controls to monitor these change projects, focusing on budget adherence and iii I n May the Committee reviewed the Groups supervision of the projects abilities to deliver the objectives set and to monitor an internal controls and IT infrastructure provided by third parties.
effective operating platform particularly during the transition phases.
iv W e also reviewed the oversight of Jupiters unit trusts, investment We will also continue to review the Groups various risk trusts and SICAVs in May.
management, control and assurance functions, to ensure they are working effectively and efficiently against a backdrop of further v W e reviewed the Groups tax strategy and associated internal political uncertainty and regulatory and economic change.
In addition to undertaking our usual scheduled business, we shall We also focused on the Groups preparedness for and the risk be examining the Groups preparations for the implementation of implications of the Brexit result and have supported the Boards the Senior Managers Regime in 2018 and looking closely at how review of the Groups approach to cyber-security protection.
We Jupiters culture will be developing following its introduction.
also supported management in its consideration of the FCAs Asset Management Market Study, from the publication of the interim I am looking forward to meeting our shareholders at our AGM report in November to the close of the FCAs consultation period in on 17 May 2017, to answer questions about the Committees work.
February 2017, looking at the areas covered by the consultation and the potential effects on the Group and its pricing model.
Polly Williams Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 23 February 2017 50 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees roles and responsibilities are set out in its terms of l reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness and adequacy of reference, which were reviewed during the year.
In particular, the the process for identifying, assessing, mitigating and managing Committee encourages and safeguards the highest standards of significant strategic, operational and liquidity risks, appetites integrity, financial reporting, risk management and internal controls and tolerances: in the Group, with reference to the provisions of the Code, the l reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees and other applicable function and considering its work plans and reports: regulations.
The Committee is responsible for: l overseeing the appointment, performance, remuneration and l overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, including independence of the external auditor, including the provision reviewing statements, announcements and judgements of non-audit services to the Group: concerning its financial performance: l reviewing all whistleblowing arrangements and ensuring the l reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management proportionate and independent investigation of the matters systems on an ongoing basis, including the adequacy and reported: and effectiveness of the framework used to monitor the Groups significant outsourced relationships: l reviewing how the controls culture is set by management, understood by employees and implemented throughout l examining the controls in place for the prevention and detection the Group.
of fraud: l assessing the principal risks that could impact the Groups business model, future performance, liquidity and solvency: THE EXPERIENCE OF THE COMMITTEES MEMBERS All of the Committees members who served during the year are Karl Sternberg, who joined the Committee during the year, was considered by the Board to be appropriately experienced and provided with a full induction programme which included a qualified to fulfil their duties.
The Board considers Polly Williams overview of the Committees work and the Groups strategy and to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Committee business model and the main financial risks and opportunities.
members attend training seminars on relevant topics during the The Committee members profiles are set out in full in the Board year and updates are provided by the Company Secretary on members biographies.
In the Boards view the Committee has relevant governance issues.
competence relevant to the asset sector in which the Group is operating.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Members Appointment Date Attendance by invitation Secretary Polly Williams 1 March 2015 Liz Airey Chairman Sally Hopwood Jonathon Bond July 2014 PwC External Auditor Karl Sternberg July 2016 EY Internal Audit Lorraine Trainer May 2010 Maarten Slendebroek CEO Philip Johnson CFO until May 2016 Charlotte Jones CFO from September 2016 Robert Parker Director of Compliance Jon East Group Legal Director Rupert Corfield Head of Risk Adrian Creedy Company Secretary Alex Sargent Head of Finance Paula Moore CF10A 1 Chairman of the Committee The attendance record table set out earlier in the Governance report shows the meetings which were attended by the Committees members.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee met four times during 2016.
The meetings were In February and July, the Committee met with internal and external scheduled at key times in the audit and financial reporting auditors lead partners, without management being present.
calendar: February full year results : May AGM : July interim In preparation for every Committee meeting, the Committee results : November preparation for trading year end.
Chairman meets privately with both audit lead partners.
Only Committee members have the right to attend its meetings.
The table above shows the members of the senior management team and others who are invited to attend the Committees meetings.
The Head of Finance, the Head of Risk, the Director of Compliance and the lead partners of the external and internal auditors attended all of the Committees meetings.
Outside of its usual meetings, the Committee also meets in private with the Head of Risk and the Compliance Director.
In 2016, those meetings took place in May.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT An illustration of how the Committee spent its time is shown below.
Overview of activities in 2016 During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee completed its full 14% 10% annual cycle of regular agenda items.
These are set in advance 3% each year, to ensure its work fulfils the requirements of the Code 13% 18% 12% and other relevant regulations.
Financial Reporting Feb May July Nov Allocation Allocation 21% 13% Full-year results and announcements of time 2015 of time 2016 Half-year results and announcements 30% 24% Review of judgements and estimates 23% in financial reports 19% Assessment of true and fair accounts Assessment of report to be fair, balanced Governance Governance and understandable Internal audit Internal audit Going concern and viability statements Compliance Compliance Risk Risk and internal controls Tax strategy and internal controls Internal controls Finance and external audit External Audit Finance and external audit Non-risk related topics of focus Management representation letter Evaluation of external audit Review of the Annual Report and Accounts Recommendation of reappointment The Committee reviewed the half-year financial statements in July.
Non-audit fees The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 were External audit independence reviewed in February 2017.
External audit plan and fees In addition, the Board asked the Committee to review the Annual Internal Audit Report and Accounts prior to publication.
This was undertaken at its February 2017 meeting.
The Committee looked first at the Strategic Summary of current work and audit reports report and considered that the information being communicated Role and effectiveness of internal auditor relating to the business model and strategy was understandable Internal audit plan and clear.
It then looked at the whole of the report, including the Risk Management and Internal Controls notes to the accounts, and advised the Board that in its view, the Risk management and compliance with Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole was fair, balanced risk appetite and understandable and provided shareholders with the necessary information to clearly assess the Companys business model, Compliance with corporate governance strategy, position and performance.
requirements Reviewing Groups procedures on Financial reporting processes detecting fraud Reviewing and updating Groups The Committee considered the accounting issues and significant whistleblowing procedure matters of judgement likely to affect the preparation of the 2016 accounts.
These were found to be: The Committee supplemented its regular annual work programme 1. impairment of goodwill: with deeper focus and discussion of: 2. accrued income and expenses: and l the CASS assurance standard, followed by a full review of the 3. share-based payments.
Groups assurance framework: Each of these items required management to make judgements as l preparedness for and impact of the decision to leave the to their treatment, which were scrutinised closely by the Committee.
European Community Brexit : To enable the Committee to do this, management prepared a l the Groups reliance on its significant outsourced relationships with briefing paper detailing the nature of each item and why it was IFDS and HSBC.
Further details of the terms of those relationships considered to be a key judgement in preparing the Groups financial are set out earlier in this Governance report: and statements.
The Committee considered the judgements at its meeting in November and reviewed the appropriateness of l the Groups change programs as they relate to developments in any resulting disclosures in the financial statements in February.
the operating platform and significant regulatory change programs.
It requested follow-up analysis, which was circulated to Committee members.
As a matter of good practice, the external auditor was asked for its view of the judgements made by management.
52 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Goodwill The Group Legal Director also regularly attended the Committees meetings, to advise on current legal matters including litigation and As a result of the Group structure adopted at the time of the intellectual property affecting any Group company.
Any litigation acquisition of Knightsbridge Asset Management Limited in the MBO, matters relating to the Groups tax affairs, including the VAT case the Group continues to have goodwill of 341.2m on its balance commenced in 2013 and referred to above, are reported to the sheet.
In accordance with IAS 36, an annual test of impairment of Committee by the Head of Tax, who also attends the Committees goodwill is undertaken and the Committee was presented with the meetings when required.
results, which demonstrated that no impairment was required.
In addition to its regular meetings, the Committee maintains a close Following the Brexit vote in June, a further impairment review was and open dialogue with executive management and the Groups undertaken considering AUM flows, share price and the three-year assurance functions throughout the year.
Reports from the executive forecast.
An impairment was not expected to arise at the time of Risk Committee cover the Groups emerging, strategic and the review though, as uncertainties remain, regular reviews will operational risk areas, including conduct and regulatory risks and risks be undertaken.
to the Group balance sheet or strategic risks inherent in the Groups broader business environment and reputation are also considered.
Accrued income and expenses The Committee regards its annual review of the Group ICAAP to As disclosed in the Financial Statements and in accordance with be a vital element of the ongoing management of risks.
The 2016 previous years, the most significant items of accrued income and annual review was undertaken following consideration of the expenses involving a degree of estimation related to bonus and Groups capital adequacy, which was finalised in 2015. other performance related remuneration schemes.
Additionally, the assessment by HMRC of VAT recovered by Jupiter Asset The Committees review of the Groups Audit & Assurance Facility Management Group Limited, which was referred to in the 2015 AAF 01 06 ISAE 3402 report was completed in January 2017, in Annual Report, has yet to be settled and was also considered by order for the format and readability of the report to be reviewed the Committee.
and to provide for separate sections for institutional controls and investment trust controls.
When it was examined prior to publication, Bonuses are not paid until after the date of signing the financial the Committee was satisfied that the Groups control structure was statements, so an accrual for the charge is made, based on clearly communicated throughout the report.
the calculated bonus pool and the amounts approved by the Remuneration Committee which looks at bonuses in total, as well The Committee has also reviewed the updated whistleblowing policy as individually for certain employees.
The Committee reviewed the and procedures, providing improved facilities for employees to amount of the bonus pool and the estimated levels of deferral into report any concerns and confirming the appointment of Polly both options over the Companys shares or a cash equivalent value Williams as a Non-Executive Director whistleblowing champion.
of units in the Groups funds.
Since options under the deferred bonus plan are not granted until April, the Committee looked at the Internal audit function expected level of share grants applicable to the year and reviewed EY has provided the Groups internal audit function since 2008.
The the quality of prior-year estimates.
The Committee also considered internal auditor reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit and the information used by the Remuneration Committee to Risk Committee and, in addition to submitting status reports for each recommend individual payments and obtained assurance that Committee meeting, provides Committee members with copies of sales and margin performances supported the anticipated any internal audit reports completed between meetings.
reports tabled at meetings include findings and recommendations, In 2013, HMRC issued a revised assessment to the Group in relation as well as the Groups progress with implementing previous to all input VAT recovered by Jupiter Asset Management Group recommendations.
These help inform the Committees discussion Limited since September 2009.
Following recent relevant litigation of any required follow-up.
The Committee works with the internal not involving any Jupiter company, HMRC has advised that further auditor to ensure that its work is embedded in the business and is consideration is being given to the matter.
In the meantime, the co-ordinated with that of the external auditor.
Groups current provisioning level is believed to remain appropriate.
The 2016 audit plan as approved by the Audit and Risk Committee, was completed during the year.
The plan was designed and Share-based payments assessed against the Enterprise Risk Management Framework of the The Committee reviewed the key assumptions used for the valuation Group and focused on Jupiters strategic risks.
Twelve audits were of options relevant to the Companys share-based incentive delivered in the period.
The audits included: schemes which were found to be appropriate and in line with l client money and assets CASS governance: previous expectations.
l oversight of overseas offices: Internal controls and risk management systems l the IT infrastructure review: and As part of its ongoing monitoring, the Committee received written l the governance framework of the Funds Management Office.
reports at each of its regular meetings in February, May, July and November.
These reports were from: The Committee plays a key role in ensuring that new branch openings are undertaken in accordance with the strategy and that l the Compliance Director, who reported on regulatory compliance all risks are managed both at the opening of a branch and during across the Group and the status of any other compliance matters: trading.
The Milan and Madrid branches began operating in 2016 l the Head of Risk, who reported on the work of the executive Risk and an internal audit review of the management of risks in all Committee and enterprise risk performance: and branches was completed.
l the Internal Audit lead partner, whose reports showed the status These reviews have helped the Group to implement more robust of the internal audit programme and any recommendations for controls procedures.
Internal audit continues to work closely with the changes to it.
Risk and Compliance teams to ensure a holistic approach to the provision of assurance in the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee has agreed nine audits will follow in 2017.
The basis The Committee reviewed and approved PwCs terms of of the 2017 audit plan will be the enterprise strategic risks, with engagement and the proposed fee for the 2016 audit.
The particular emphasis on business change and scalability.
Committee has reviewed and satisfied itself with respect to the external auditors qualifications, expertise, resources and 2016 review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit independence.
It continues to believe that PwC conducts its audit work with objectivity and to a high standard.
It considered the Our review was a two stage process.
The Chairman and members external auditors proposed audit scope and plan at the November of the Committee contributed to a survey of nine questions, which meeting and found it to be effective.
There are no contractual evaluated the interaction of Internal Audit with the Committee.
The obligations restricting Jupiters choice of external auditor, other members of the Executive Committee and regular attendees of the than in respect of EYs appointment as internal auditor.
Committees meetings also considered EYs independent audit interviews and a high level of satisfaction was reported in most of The Committee has a primary responsibility to safeguard the the responses received.
Some areas of possible improvement were external auditors objectivity and independence.
To achieve this in identified, including clearer communication of best practice in the 2016, it followed its existing policy which provided that certain types broader context in audit reviews.
It was also felt that the use of of non-audit services were pre-approved, whilst others were not subject matter experts could be extended.
Prohibited services were those where the Committee considered that the associated threats In addition, the Committee received a quality assurance report from to auditor independence were unacceptable.
Pre-approved an independent partner of EY, who undertook a series of interviews services were those considered to have a low threat to auditor with the functions stakeholders.
The review reported that overall, independence.
Nonetheless, pre-approved services still needed the management is very satisfied with the level of service and Committees approval if the expected fee exceeded 50,000.
The performance of the internal audit function.
policy also set out certain disclosures the external auditor must The Committee remains of the view that outsourcing the function to make to the Committee, restrictions on employing the external a specialist independent provider is appropriate and allows for the auditors former employees, partner rotation and the procedures provision of subject experts as required.
for approving non-audit services provided by the auditor.
A new policy was prepared and scrutinised by the Committee in External auditor November, assuring compliance with the EU Audit Regulation by PwC is the Groups external auditor, having been reappointed 2020 as the Regulation allows.
It was implemented in January 2017, following a formal tender in 2014.
Jeremy Jensen was the lead audit following Board approval, and confirms a list of services which the Partner throughout 2016. external auditor is not permitted to provide to the Group, including advice in relation to its tax affairs.
The policy caps the value of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market non-audit services that can be provided in future periods and Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes prescribes the activities for which PwC may be retained to assist and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 statement Jupiter outside the audit.
of compliance In 2016, the Group used PwC for some taxation advice and in other The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions areas outside the statutory audit of the Group, such as those areas of the CMA Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
of assurance where the work being done is, in the view of the The Company intends to retender the external audit contract Group, similar in type and scope to the work performed in the audit no later than 2024. and as such, can be provided more efficiently and cost effectively by the auditor.
This area is mainly the review of the interim accounts Each year the external auditor presents to the Committee the and other assurance work on the AAF Controls report for clients proposed scope of its full-year audit plan, together with a review and CASS client money audits.
PwC was used in these cases due to plan for the half-year.
This includes its assessment of the material the existing relationship, which aids the understanding of the Groups risks to the Groups financial statements and its proposed materiality business and structure and thus the ability to provide effective levels, for the Committees discussion and agreement.
We continue to look at these items on a case by case basis, PwC attended all of the Committees regular meetings and also as to whether PwC is the appropriate supplier and would consider provided reports on specific topics requested by the Committee, using a different supplier where it would not be detrimental to which included a deeper review of the scope of CASS regulation the Group.
and the Groups preparedness for it, following the publication of the new CASS Assurance Standard applicable to our CASS audits A quarterly report is circulated to the Committee setting out the in 2016. non-audit services provided by the external auditor during the year and the fees charged.
These services mainly related to the audit The Audit and Risk Committee has primary responsibility for the and assurance controls report, taxation and advice relating to the Groups relationship with the external auditor.
A review of the provision of professional services to the SICAV management effectiveness of the external auditor was undertaken by means of a company.
The tax work included compliance issues that arose in questionnaire, which was completed by members of the Committee, various territories, including Taiwan, as well as advice on VAT issues the Board, and the Finance and Compliance teams.
PwC was found relevant to the overseas trading companies.
An analysis of fees paid to have performed effectively during the audit and was responding in respect of PwCs audit and non-audit services is included within constructively to new challenges.
A summary of the questionnaires Note 1.3 of the financial statements.
findings was discussed at the Committees meeting in May and the Chairman then discussed the action points with Jeremy Jensen.
The Board has recommended the reappointment of PwC as external auditor, which will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 17 May 2017.
54 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OTHER AREAS OF DEEPER FOCUS AND DISCUSSION Risk and governance In addition to its routine activities during the year, the Committee During the year, the Committee looked at: also identified topics of focus for review.
This was primarily based l implementation of the Groups corporate values: on their importance to the Groups strategy and particularly its growth strategy, or current or anticipated regulatory focus.
The l how management sets and monitors the Groups culture: and main topics covered during 2016 and to date in 2017, which were l the Groups tax framework and associated internal processes presented to the Committee by senior stakeholders in the relevant and controls.
business areas, related to regulatory change and compliance, viability, risk and governance.
These reviews had a particular emphasis on risk and highlighted to the Committee any potential risk areas or areas where controls may The combination of routine annual activities and the topics of focus need enhancing.
For instance, the Committees review of cyber means that the Committee has been able to carry out a robust crime risks included consideration of the relevant risks and a review assessment of the Groups principal risks and its ability to deliver of appropriate insurance.
The risks of network business interruption its strategy.
This included assessing the risks that might threaten its were also examined and improved insurance cover obtained.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Regulatory change and compliance During the year, the Committee reviewed the conduct risk and control framework, including: l the Groups preparation for and compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation, which was implemented in July: and l the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee also reviewed a number of factors such as liquidity management and cash generation from operations, contingent liabilities, unfavourable market scenarios versus the Groups core forecasts and other risks to the Groups operations or balance sheet position.
The Committee considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the half-year and annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, and did not identify any material uncertainties or notify the Board of any qualifications or assumptions as to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approving such financial statements.
Viability In February 2017, the Committee considered the Groups viability over the period of three years to 31 December 2019 and its position as a going concern at the half-year and year end.
It considered whether the period of three years remained the most appropriate period over which Jupiters viability should be considered and concluded it was, having given consideration to the Groups current strategic forecast and ICAAP.
These assessments were informed by the Groups business and cash flow projections and the current net cash balance and loan facilities available to the Group.
The Committee considered that the Groups current surplus capital and cash liquidity were both well above the levels which might bring the going concern basis into question.
The Committee also received advice on current best practice from external advisers.
The Groups Statement of Viability is set out in the Strategic Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 REMUNERATION REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, l Improvements to the rigour and transparency of the decision making process for variable pay awards to Executive Directors I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for with a clearly dened process and metrics.
It is split into two parts: l The Directors Remuneration Policy.
This is subject to a binding THE LINK BETWEEN STRATEGY AND REMUNERATION vote and sets out our policy for approval by shareholders.
We are Jupiters focus is on delivering long-term outperformance to clients putting forward what is largely the same policy as approved at after all fees through active asset management.
This successfully our 2014 AGM with 97% of votes in favour.
The rationale for this delivers value to shareholders as we combine this investment approach is discussed in more detail below.
outperformance with effective distribution, efficient operations to l The Annual Report on Remuneration.
This outlines how we enable growth, diversication and increased business resiliency.
implemented our policy in 2016 and how we intend to implement Since IPO, Jupiter has signicantly increased in size, from a market it in 2017. capitalisation of c. 1bn in 2010 to c. 2bn at the end of 2016 which, together with a progressive ordinary dividend policy and special 2016 REMUNERATION REVIEW dividends, has returned significant value to shareholders.
This growth has been reected in international expansion and diversication by Over the last year, we have undertaken a detailed and product, client type and channel.
comprehensive review of our remuneration arrangements to make sure they best support our business strategy and reect regulatory Jupiters remuneration arrangements must have the capacity to requirements and evolving best practice.
This included extensive continue rewarding and incentivising delivery of this successful consultation with our major shareholders and investor bodies and growth strategy.
Therefore we need to continue our focus on I would like to thank all involved for their constructive engagement.
maintaining the balance by which we share the benets of profitability between our stakeholders, specically our people and We received a range of useful and varied feedback on our shareholders, whilst retaining the right proportion to invest in our proposals: some shareholders were fully supportive whereas others platform to ensure it remains scalable for growth and continued were less comfortable with particular aspects.
Specically, although compliance with regulatory changes.
our proposals would have capped total individual pay potential and resulted in an overall decrease in total compensation, some The following table reiterates the four key areas of our strategy and shareholders were unsupportive of the significant restructuring of how our remuneration policy for Executive Directors supports us in the pay elements being proposed for 2017. executing that strategy.
The current pay model at Jupiter low salaries and uncapped 1.
Investment outperformance individual variable pay is consistent with the historic structure of pay l Investment outperformance is critical to delivering value to our within the asset management sector but is increasingly inconsistent clients.
It is measured in both the annual bonus and the LTIP with governance guidelines and executive pay practices for listed performance metrics.
The annual bonus measures investment companies more widely.
outperformance relative to peers and benchmark indices.
Our proposals would have addressed these inconsistencies but it The LTIP measures outperformance against peers.
is clear from the nature of the feedback that we need to do more l Measurement is calculated over multiple time periods.
For the work to ensure that we have broad shareholder support for the annual bonus, we look back at investment performance over changes we need to make.
As an ethical business with responsibilities one, three and five years.
For the LTIP, we measure to our stakeholders, including our clients, achieving broad support outperformance over a three year period.
We therefore need to take some time to reect on the feedback 2.
Effective distribution we have received and amend our proposals accordingly.
l Measurement of ows is included in both the annual bonus In practical terms, this means that we will delay bringing forward and the LTIP.
For the annual bonus, we focus on gross and net a revised policy for shareholder approval until a General Meeting sales, as well as management fee margin.
For the LTIP, we later in 2017 or at the 2018 AGM.
measure net sales over a three year period.
Since legislation requires that the policy is renewed every three l Diversication is an important overlay, which helps in delivering years and our existing policy was approved by shareholders at the stable returns to shareholders.
Within the annual bonus we 2014 AGM, a new policy needs to be approved at the 2017 AGM.
measure the mix of AUM over different geographies, asset Shareholder approval will therefore be sought at the 2017 AGM classes and client channels, as well as concentration.
Providing for a limited 12 month extension of our existing policy with the the right products to clients generates asset inows.
following updates: l An increase in our shareholding guidelines from 150% of salary to 300% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors, to further strengthen alignment with shareholders.
l Alignment of our bonus deferral provisions to meet new regulatory requirements under UCITS V. 56 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LINKING RISK AND REWARD 3.
Efficient operations The Committee oversees the close linkage between risk and reward l profitability is a key measure within the annual bonus, with for all employees to ensure the desired behaviours and culture targets set for profits, revenues and costs.
We also have a are being demonstrated.
Risk and compliance play an important three-year EPS target in our LTIP.
role in our remuneration approach and can reduce variable compensation, potentially to zero.
The reward practices and l The strategic and individual elements of the bonus and LTIP processes in place to support this are described in more detail encourage our Executive Directors to focus on and invest in on page 68. key projects, which enable us to grow a long-term, sustainable business, protecting our operating margin and keep step with EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP changing regulatory requirements.
At Jupiter, our culture of employee share ownership continues to be a 4.
Value creation key area of focus.
Currently, around a quarter of our employees hold l Our remuneration philosophy aligns executive rewards with awards under one or both of our deferred bonus and long-term long-term value creation for clients and shareholders across incentive plans and are therefore aligned with shareholders in having a range of features, including bonus deferral, LTIP and a long-term interest in the Groups performance.
We also operate two shareholding requirements.
HMRC approved plans, a Sharesave and a Share Incentive Plan, under which 82% of eligible employees are either participating in one l There is a strong link between the available profit for or both.
These plans complement and encourage our culture of distribution to all our stakeholders and the variable long-term employee share ownership.
compensation pool for employees, as detailed on page 7.
During 2016, around a fifth of our employees benefited from the THE LINK BETWEEN PERFORMANCE AND VARIABLE maturity of our three-year and five-year Sharesave awards from 2013 REMUNERATION and 2011 respectively.
At the end of 2016, over two thirds of these employees had exercised their options and enjoyed aggregate gains Our practice of capping salaries for all employees including of 422,000 and around half of these employees have chosen to Executive Directors at a maximum of 250,000 and rewarding retain the shares.
employees for personal performance means that a high proportion of total remuneration continues to be delivered as variable pay.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT All employees including Executive Directors are incentivised to deliver high performance and are rewarded according to the As mentioned above, I am grateful for the constructive engagement Groups success and their personal contribution.
This approach that there has been with our major shareholders over recent reects Jupiters collegiate culture, with all employees sharing in months.
I look forward to a continuation of this dialogue over the Jupiters success.
coming year as we amend our proposals for a revised policy.
In the immediate future, I look forward to receiving your views and support Variable pay awards to Executive Directors form part of the at the forthcoming AGM.
Group-wide capped variable compensation pool and their awards in relation to 2016 performance are discussed on pages 69-72.
Although it has been a year of strong financial performance with Lorraine Trainer increased profits and a higher variable compensation pool, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors awards are lower than for 2015, both in absolute 23 February 2017 terms and as a percentage of the pool.
The reduced variable compensation for Executive Directors was a result of net sales being below target and a greater pressure on the variable compensation pool than in prior years, as described in greater detail in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee has also continued its policy of increasing the proportion of the CEOs variable pay that is granted as LTIP awards subject to additional three-year performance conditions rather than as annual bonus.
2016 was the final year of the performance period for LTIP awards made to Executive Directors in 2014 and for buy-out awards granted to Maarten Slendebroek in 2013.
These awards will vest over 41% and 49% respectively of the originally granted shares as discussed on pages 73-74.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 REMUNERATION REPORT EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE This table summarises remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors in 2016 under the policy approved by shareholders at our 2014 AGM, alongside commentary of how we intend to apply our policy in 2017.
Element 2016 approach 2017 approach and commentary Salary l Salary cap of 250,000 l No salary increases for Executive Directors l CEO 250,000, CFO 250,000 and l Salary cap of 250,000 Vice Chairman 160,000 200,000 full time l CEO 250,000, CFO 250,000 and equivalent Vice Chairman 160,000 200,000 full time equivalent Pension l 15% of salary l 15% of salary Bonus opportunity l No individual limits l No individual limits l Subject to capped aggregate variable l Subject to capped aggregate variable compensation compensation pool pool Bonus performance l Balanced scorecard approach l Further enhancement of balanced scorecard approach measures and increased granularity around targets and l profitability, net ows, investment outperformance, performance strategic objectives and personal performance l Increased suite of metrics to include profitability, net l Risk and compliance checkpoints and underpins ows, investment outperformance, diversication, strategic operating objectives and personal performance l Concepts of Threshold, Target and Maximum performance embedded into annual bonus framework.
This will allow signicantly enhanced commentary in the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2017 some of which you will start to see in this report as we transition to the new approach l Retrospective disclosure of target ranges for quantitative measures and expanded commentary for qualitative measures l Risk and compliance checkpoints and underpins Deferral l 40% of total bonus over 100,000 deferred into l To the extent that we need to meet future regulatory shares for three years, 60% cash requirements with greater deferral provisions than our policy, we will do so l For example, for 2017, we anticipate the following will apply in line with UCITS V : 50% of total bonus deferred into shares for three years and subject to an additional six month holding period: 25% of total bonus delivered in shares subject to a six month holding period: and 25% of total bonus delivered upfront in cash LTIP opportunity l No individual limits l No individual limits l Face value of grants subject to capped aggregate l Face value of grants subject to capped aggregate variable compensation pool variable compensation pool LTIP performance l Four measures with equal weighting: l Four measures with equal weighting: measures EPS, net sales, investment outperformance and EPS, net sales, investment outperformance and strategic strategic goals goals Shareholding l 150% of salary l Increase to 300% of salary for CEO requirements l Increase to 200% of salary for other Executive Directors Other best practice l Malus and clawback provisions apply l Malus and clawback provisions apply features 58 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Remuneration Committee OVERVIEW OF ACTIVITIES IN 2016 ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The following regular agenda items were considered during the The Committees role and responsibilities include: scheduled Committee meetings which took place during 2016: l determining the overarching policy for the remuneration of the Jan Feb July Oct Dec Groups employees, ensuring it is structured in a way that Remuneration policy and disclosures rewards individual and corporate performance and is aligned Review of remuneration policy with appropriate risk and compliance standards and the Directors Remuneration Report long-term interests of shareholders, investors and other stakeholders: Risk and reward Input from Risk and Compliance l determining the overall size of the annual variable Review of risk checkpoints prior to compensation pool, taking into account all relevant factors variable compensation pool approval including the performance of the business, the impact on liquidity and the Groups capital base, the Groups profitability, Annual remuneration discussions risk, compliance and any constraints on total remuneration Bonus and LTIP pool spend: Individual performance and remuneration outcomes l determining and reviewing annually individuals who may be considered to have a material impact on the risk prole of LTIP performance testing Jupiter and relevant subsidiaries Code Staff for the purposes Allocation of LTIP awards of the FCA Remuneration Code, Alternative Investment Fund Setting individual objectives Managers Directive AIFMD and Undertakings for Collective External market Investment in Transferable Securities UCITS disclosures: Shareholder trends and feedback l determining the Chairmans fees and the total individual Governance developments remuneration package of each member of the Executive Market trends Committee, each individual identied as Code Staff and any Benchmarking data employee whose total remuneration is expected to exceed the Regulatory median for the Executive Directors: Regulatory and governance update l for the above group of employees, overseeing the setting of Code Staff identication objectives for, and assessing the extent to which each individual CRD IV, CRD III and AIFMD has met, their individual performance targets for incentive awards: Remuneration Policy Statement l approving the design of, determining the targets for, and Committee remit and effectiveness monitoring the operation of, any performance related pay Terms of reference review schemes operated by the Group, ensuring appropriate links exist Self-evaluation between risk and reward, and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes: In addition to the scheduled meetings set out above, the Committee l reviewing the design of all share incentive plans and deferred held additional meetings in respect of the appointment of Charlotte bonus arrangements for approval by the Board and, if Jones to consider and approve her remuneration arrangements applicable, shareholders.
For any such plans, determining each as described on page 75, and in relation to the remuneration year whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount policy review.
of such awards, the eligibility criteria for such awards and the performance targets attaching to those awards, taking into account future risks: and l overseeing any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS Lorraine Trainer Chairman Liz Airey Jonathon Bond Bridget Macaskill Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee has considered the impact of this Directors Remuneration Policy Policy on wider stakeholders, including our clients, our employees This section of the report sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy and the wider economy.
Views across and within these groups are the Policy.
The Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at not uniform and it is the Committees job to navigate and reconcile our 2017 AGM.
these views as best as possible.
The Committee has also considered the environmental, social and governance implications of the Policy CHANGES TO THE POLICY and is satisfied that it takes a responsible approach to pay and guards against irresponsible behaviour or excessive risk-taking.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement, a comprehensive review of executive remuneration arrangements has been undertaken in REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE consultation with major shareholders.
The outcome of that review is that we are seeking shareholder approval at our 2017 AGM for The policy table Policy Table on pages 64 to 67 summarises a limited 12 month extension of our existing Policy, which was each of the elements of the remuneration package for Executive approved by shareholders at our 2014 AGM with 97% support.
The main changes that are being proposed to our existing Policy EXPLANATION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES are set out below.
Performance measures are selected and set by the Committee at l An increase in our shareholding guidelines from 150% of salary the beginning of each performance year, to support the execution to 300% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary of our business strategy.
for other Executive Directors, to further strengthen alignment For annual bonuses, the Committee believes it is appropriate to with shareholders.
The diversity of metrics and l Alignment of our bonus deferral provisions to meet new granularity of detail brings a holistic approach to assessment, regulatory requirements under UCITS V. allowing multiple elements of corporate performance to be evaluated.
This is in the best interests of our shareholders and l Improvements to the rigour and transparency of the decision clients, whilst also being in line with shareholders expectations.
making process for variable pay awards to Executive Directors Furthermore, it is in line with regulatory expectations under UCITS, with a clearly dened process and metrics.
The Committee reserves the right to make minor amendments to the Setting appropriately stretching targets is an area of particular focus Policy in the future without shareholder approval for administrative for the Committee.
We have set out our approach and process in reasons or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control respect of the annual bonus cycle in detail on pages 77-78. or regulatory treatment for a Director.
Full vesting under the LTIP will only occur for what the Committee considers to be exceptional performance.
CONTEXT OF ALL-EMPLOYEE PAY Risk and compliance underpins apply to all variable compensation The Jupiter Remuneration Committee considers the pay and which can reduce awards, potentially to zero.
Furthermore, the conditions of all employees when determining remuneration Committee makes reference to a series of checkpoints as outlined arrangements for Executive Directors.
in our Risk and reward section on page 68, when approving the The remuneration policy for Executive Directors applies on a similar overall variable compensation pool for all employees.
The salary cap in place for Executive Directors currently applies across the Group.
In any year, bonuses SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS paid in respect of prior year performance and the face value of The Chief Executive and other Executive Directors are expected to LTIP and any other awards granted to Executive Directors and all build up shareholdings and maintain holdings of at least 300% and other employees will be funded by and not exceed the available 200% of base salary respectively.
capped variable compensation pool so all employees including Executive Directors are incentivised in a similar way and are The Committee monitors shareholdings against these requirements rewarded according to personal performance and the success annually and decides at its discretion what if any action should be of the Group.
taken, which may include requiring an individual to hold a proportion of vested shares until the requirements are met.
Participation in the all-employee share plans the HMRC approved Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan is also offered to all UK MALUS AND CLAWBACK employees on the same terms, allowing all employees to benefit from the opportunity of owning shares in the Company and helping Jupiter operates a malus and clawback policy to support wider further align the interests of all employees with shareholders.
aims, including: ensuring greater alignment between risk and individual reward: discouraging excessive risk taking and shortBenets are also offered on a consistent basis for example, the termism: encouraging effective risk management: and promoting level of employer pension contributions is 15% of base salary for positive behaviours and a strong and appropriate conduct culture Executive Directors and all UK employees and other benets, such at Jupiter.
as private medical insurance, are offered to all UK employees on the same terms.
Malus provisions apply so that relevant awards can be withheld or reduced including to zero in certain circumstances.
Clawback Most of the Jupiter remuneration policies apply on a Group-wide provisions apply so that relevant awards can be reclaimed in basis.
The main differences between employees below Executive certain circumstances.
Director level and the remuneration policy for Executive Directors relate to the deferral prole for bonuses, the form of DBP awards For the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP and LTIP, malus and clawback and the performance conditions applicable to LTIP awards.
provisions can apply in the following circumstances: i Financial results would have been materially lower on the basis STAKEHOLDER VIEWS of information that comes to light after the accounts for that The Remuneration Committee is committed to ongoing dialogue year are nalised other than as a result of change of accounting with investor bodies and investors, and consulted extensively with policy subsequent to the end of the year : both in determining the approach to the Policy.
60 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ii Material failure of risk management suffered by a group Where necessary, any buy-out awards granted outside of the company: provisions of the rules of the LTIP will be granted under the Listing Rules exemption applicable to such share arrangements.
iii Gross misconduct or material error from 2017 awards onwards of the individual: In the case of the future recruitment of a new Executive Director, the Company will disclose the full details of the recruitment package iv Material reputational damage occurring to a group company: and the approach taken in the Annual Report on Remuneration and following the appointment.
v Performance assessment error in relation to an individual when The other main contractual terms of the service contract would determining the level of their award.
follow the same principles as those of existing Executive Directors.
Malus provisions apply for all unvested DBP and LTIP awards Any new Non-Executive Director would be appointed with granted in 2016 and later years in respect of any events referred contractual terms and a fee basis in line with the other existing to above.
Clawback provisions will apply to all vested LTIP awards granted in 2016 and later years in respect of events described in i to iii, and EXIT PAYMENTS iv only applies to the extent that the individual is considered to be Our overriding policy on termination payments to Executive directly responsible or directly accountable.
Directors is that we do not include any contractual provisions for The clawback provisions may ordinarily be invoked at any time after compensation on early termination, other than the amount due the vesting date for a period of two years, in respect of a clawback under law and that the Committee will seek to keep any other such event that occurs at any time between grant and the end of the payments to an appropriate level, reecting performance.
In case of termination, a payment in lieu of notice may be due if Clawback provisions also apply in respect of bonus payments such notice is not given by the Company.
As set out in the summary delivered as cash, such that all variable compensation is subject table of Executive Director service contracts, no contractual to malus and clawback provisions.
entitlement to a bonus payment accrues or arises during the notice period.
Any bonus payment that the Committee determines is RECRUITMENT appropriate to be paid in respect of an Executive Director notice period will be based on performance and may be made in such In the case of the future recruitment of a new Executive Director, proportions of cash and shares as the Committee may determine.
the Company would apply the following principles: Leaver provisions under both the DBP and LTIP are aligned.
The l Base salary: set in line with the Policy Table.
respective rules provide that any awards will lapse on cessation l Bonus: expected to be on the same basis as all other Executive of the individuals office or employment, other than in limited Directors as outlined in the Policy Table.
Notwithstanding this, the circumstances, as follows: death of the employee: the ill-health, Committee retains the exibility to determine that for the first year injury or disability of the employee: redundancy: retirement: the sale of appointment any annual incentive award will be subject to of the individuals employing entity out of the group: and any other such terms as it may determine.
reason which the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion so permits.
Where LTIP awards granted in 2017 vest in these l DBP: awards will be granted in respect of the relevant proportion circumstances, they would normally only vest to the extent the of any bonus paid in the year of recruitment, on the same basis Remuneration Committee determines, taking into account the extent as it applies for all other Executive Directors and the usual that performance conditions have been satisfied and, unless the malus and clawback provisions would apply to any award as Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the vesting outlined above.
l LTIP: in the year of recruitment, any awards granted will be The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in granted on the same terms as apply to other Executive Directors connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment as set out in the Policy Table.
where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of or to l All-employee share plans: participation in the HMRC approved mitigate an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for Sharesave Plan and HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan will be breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement of any claim offered on the same basis as it is for all other Executive Directors arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or and employees.
Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the directors l Benets: pension contributions, private medical insurance, life legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his assurance, dependants pension and income protection will be cessation of office or employment.
provided on the same basis as they are for all other employees including Executive Directors.
Where the Remuneration In the case of a change in control of the Company or equivalent Committee determines that such a payment is necessary for transaction, the Remuneration Committee may exercise its recruitment, payments such as relocation allowances and other discretion to assess performance conditions applicable to relocation related expenses may also be paid at a level outstanding LTIP awards to the date of the relevant event.
The determined as appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
Board may determine that outstanding LTIP or DBP awards be exchanged for equivalent awards on such terms as agreed with the l Variable remuneration: There is no maximum level of variable acquiring company.
If the Company is wound up the vesting of an remuneration which may be awarded on recruitment, in line award will be accelerated.
with the Policy Table, albeit all payments are capped by the aggregate variable compensation pool.
Any buy-out awards granted in addition to the elements of the remuneration package will be required to be granted on equivalent or no more favourable terms, in accordance with applicable regulatory rules and regulations, than the awards which they are buying out, in particular in respect of the: quantum of the award: timing of delivery: form of award: and existence of performance conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 REMUNERATION REPORT SERVICE AGREEMENTS POLICY LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT POLICY The policy terms and effective dates of the current Executive The policy terms, effective dates and unexpired terms of the current Directors service agreements are summarised below: Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are summarised below: Provision Details Provision Details Term Not xed Term Three years from the date of appointment or renewal date.
Notice period Six months written notice from either party, during which period salary and benets will be provided Unexpired term l 6 months for Jonathon Bond.
but no contractual entitlement to any bonus as at l 8 months for Liz Airey.
payment will accrue or arise.
31 December 2016 l 1 year and 2 months for Polly Williams.
Service l 1 June 2010 for Edward Bonham Carter.
agreement l 1 year and 4 months for Bridget Macaskill.
dates l 2 years and 4 months for Lorraine Trainer.
Termination No provisions for compensation on early l 2 years and 7 months for Karl Sternberg.
arrangements termination, other than those provided by the Notice period Three months written notice from either party.
In the event that compensation Date of letters of l 1 July 2014 for Jonathon Bond.
for early termination is payable, the Committees appointment policy is to seek to keep such compensation to an l 1 September 2014 for Liz Airey.
There are no specic provisions in the service l 1 May 2015 for Bridget Macaskill.
agreements providing for compensation payable by the Company on termination without cause or l 11 May 2016 for Lorraine Trainer.
on a change of control of the Company.
No entitlement to benets such as pension Termination No provisions for compensation on early contributions and private medical insurance arrangements termination, other than those provided by the will continue after termination of employment.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES POLICY Non-Executive Director fee levels are normally reviewed annually.
The current annual fees comprise the following elements: l Basic fees l Additional fees may also apply in respect of: Committee membership: Committee Chairmanship in addition to the membership fee : Senior Independent Director status: and In any given year, a time commitment signicantly in excess of that expected at the start of the year.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually and comprises an all-inclusive fee.
Fees are set to reect the time commitment and skills and experience required, based on an appropriate level against the market, and will not exceed the maximum amount permissible under the Companys Articles of Association.
The fees are currently paid in cash, but the Board retains the exibility to pay some or all of the fees in shares.
Reasonable business expenses are reimbursed or settled on behalf of Non-Executive Directors and any tax arising in respect of the reimbursement or settlement of such expenses may also be settled by the Company.
62 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ILLUSTRATIVE PAY SCENARIOS Jupiters remuneration policy provides for a significant proportion of total compensation for Executive Directors to be delivered in the form of variable compensation, dependent on Jupiters performance.
The scenario chart below shows the minimum Fixed compensation for each Executive Director in their respective roles from 1 January 2017.
The annual Fixed compensation is compared against actual annualised compensation Actual for 2016 from the single total gure table in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
For Charlotte Jones, Chief Financial Officer, the 2016 Actual compensation gures have been annualised to represent full year amounts in order to allow comparison against the other Executive Directors.
Charlotte does not have a LTIP award vesting in April 2017 and therefore no amount is included in the scenario chart for her in respect of this element of compensation.
In future years where there is LTIP vesting, her Actual compensation would also include this and may therefore be higher than that shown in the scenario chart.
The value of the Joiner Plan award for Charlotte from the single gure table is also not included in the Actual compensation amount in the scenario chart below as this is a one off buy-out award in respect of deferred compensation forfeited from her previous employer, and will not be repeated in future years.
It is not possible to show maximum total compensation illustrations in the chart due to the structure of the Jupiter remuneration policy whereby capping the bonus and LTIP is achieved by way of a cap on the aggregate variable compensation pool.
Element Assumptions Salary l Base salary with effect from 1 January 2017 for Fixed l Annualised salary paid in 2016 for Actual Other fixed pay l Annualised pension and benets paid in 2016, together with any Sharesave options granted or SIP matching shares awarded in 2016 for Fixed and Actual Bonus cash l Annualised bonus paid in cash for 2016 performance for Actual Bonus DBP l Annualised bonus deferred into shares for 2016 performance for Actual LTIP vesting l Value of LTIP awards vesting in 2017 for which 2016 is the last performance year for Actual Executive Director illustrative pay scenarios 000 2,431 2,500 LTIP vesting Bonus DBP 16% Bonus cash 2,000 Other xed Salary 27% 1,500 1,034 1,000 25% 45% 543 500 48% 13% 290 284 14% 184 14% 2% 12% 3% 39% 13% 4% 86% 10% 88% 24% 0 87% 30% Fixed2016 Fixed2016 Fixed2016 Actual Actual Actual Chief Executive Chief Financial Vice Ocer Ocer Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration policy table components of Executive Director remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Jupiter maintains a strong cost discipline.
Base salaries are generally reviewed annually with any increases The base salaries of Executive Directors are subject to the N A Therefore, the Remuneration Committee taking effect from 1 May.
When determining base salary levels, the applicable Jupiter salary cap, currently 250,000 per annum.
caps the salaries of Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee considers the individuals skills, the size and scope of their role, the market rate for the role at comparator companies and the salary increases for other employees of the Company.
Salaries are subject to the salary cap.
Pension Provides individuals with retirement Payments may be made on a consistent basis to all employees 15% of salary.
either into a pension plan for example, into a dened contribution plan or some other arrangement which the Committee considers to have the same economic benefit or delivered as a cash allowance of the same equivalent cost to the Company.
Benefits Provides individuals with market aligned Benets are provided on a consistent basis to all UK employees.
There is no dened maximum.
The value of other benets will N A benets.
Typical benets include: private medical insurance, life assurance, vary year on year, depending on factors such as the third party dependants pension and an income protection scheme to cover provider charges and market conditions.
They are set at a level long-term illness.
the Committee considers reasonable in the context of the local jurisdiction and the individuals circumstances.
Regional differences in the level of benets may exist for employees based outside the UK where benets are aligned with local market practice.
All-employee Jupiter encourages employee share Under the Sharesave plan, employees enter into a three or five Under the Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan, maximums are No performance conditions apply to the awards under the share plans ownership and operates an HMRC year savings contract and are granted linked options over shares as prescribed by HMRC from time to time.
approved Sharesave plan and an HMRC in the Company.
Executive The Share Incentive Plan awards take the form of shares in the Directors are eligible to participate in Company acquired by employees from pre-tax salary in both plans on the same basis as other conjunction with matching shares awarded.
Annual bonus The annual bonus rewards corporate The bonus pool to be distributed amongst employees is part of the The variable compensation pool is, in normal circumstances, Executive Director bonus amounts are determined by reference to and Deferred performance and the achievement of variable compensation pool, which is calculated by reference to a capped at 27.5% of adjusted available profit.
In any year, performance against specic personal performance objectives and Bonus Plan strategic and personal objectives.
As the percentage of adjusted available profit net revenue less xed costs bonuses awarded in respect of prior year performance and the performance against the following performance measures: DBP bonus pool is based on Jupiters profits, and accounting charges, principally amortisation expenses and value of long-term awards granted will not exceed the available l Profitability, compared against expectations in light of market this ensures bonuses are affordable.
The proportion of the pool that is conditions, considering: profits against prior year: and profits When the performance of Jupiter, or distributed will depend on the underlying business performance.
Bonus amounts are determined based on performance against against the target set by the Committee.
of an individual, is such that no bonus The calculation of the variable compensation pool effectively various criteria and targets that are agreed by the Remuneration is merited, no bonus will be paid.
caps total bonuses awarded and LTIP awards granted to l Net flows, compared against expectations in light of market Committee at the start of each year.
Executive Directors and employees and ensures they are conditions, considering: gross ows and net ows against prior The DBP provides a deferral element The bonus amount determined is normally paid out in cash for the affordable.
year: net ows against the target set by the Committee: the in the form of Jupiter shares to bonuses first 100,000.
For bonus amounts in excess of 100,000, no less margins at which those ows were achieved.
above a certain level to ensure there is than 40% of the bonus in excess of 100,000 is normally delivered a link to the longer-term performance l Investment performance, considering: the proportion of in the form of a DBP award.
The Remuneration Committee has of the Company.
mutual funds weighted by AUM with first or second quartile discretion to increase the extent to which the bonus is deferred in performance: and the investment performance of other shares, if required to satisfy regulatory requirements.
Awards under the DBP take the form of shares or options over l Achievement of strategic growth objectives, as set by the shares in Jupiter.
This aligns DBP award recipients with the interests Remuneration Committee.
of shareholders over the longer term.
DBP awards normally vest at least three years after the date of grant.
Clawback and malus provisions apply, to mitigate against actions and behaviours outside of Jupiters risk appetite.
All variable compensation is subject to risk and compliance assessments, under which any payments can be reduced, including to zero.
64 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Remuneration policy table components of Executive Director remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Jupiter maintains a strong cost discipline.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 REMUNERATION REPORT Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures LTIP Provides long-term reward with awards The LTIP pool which determines the face value of LTIP awards As stated above, the variable compensation pool is, in normal The performance conditions, applicable to 100% of any LTIP award made on an annual basis.
granted in any year is part of the variable compensation pool, circumstances, capped at 27.5% of adjusted available profit.
In granted to an Executive Director are as follows for awards granted which is calculated by reference to a percentage of adjusted any year, bonuses awarded in respect of prior year performance under this policy 25% of the award each : Encourages long-term outperformance available profit.
and the value of long-term awards granted will not exceed the and reinforces retention.
l Underlying EPS available variable compensation pool.
The proportion of the LTIP awards will vest a minimum of three years from the date of pool that is distributed will depend on the underlying business l Net sales grant, subject to continued employment and the satisfaction of performance.
The calculation of the variable compensation pool performance conditions normally measured over a period of at l Investment outperformance effectively caps total bonuses awarded and LTIP awards granted least three financial years.
to Executive Directors and employees and ensures they are l Strategic goals affordable.
The Remuneration Committee adopts such calculation methods and policies in assessing the performance conditions as it determines are appropriate.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to vary or replace a performance condition if an event occurs that means a performance condition has ceased to be appropriate, provided that any varied or new performance condition is, in its opinion, no more or less difficult to satisfy.
LEGACY PAYMENTS The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before our 2014 AGM the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
COMMON AWARD TERMS Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in this report may: a be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same economic effect.
Alternatively, if regulations so required, awards may also be granted over fund units, in which case, references to Jupiter shares in this Policy would also include fund units: b have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy: c incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under an award that vest up to the time of vesting or where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: d be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and e be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
66 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures LTIP Provides long-term reward with awards The LTIP pool which determines the face value of LTIP awards As stated above, the variable compensation pool is, in normal The performance conditions, applicable to 100% of any LTIP award made on an annual basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 REMUNERATION REPORT Risk and reward at Jupiter DISCUSSION CHECKPOINTS The Committee gives careful consideration to the linkage between Capital base and liquidity risk and reward to ensure the desired behaviours and culture are Can Jupiter afford the proposed variable compensation pool?
This includes ensuring the reward structures are l Sufficient liquidity to make payments?
consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management, l Consider impact on Jupiters capital base.
and ensuring remuneration out-turns appropriately reect the risk Request and consider input from the Chief Financial Officer.
prole and behaviours of the Group and each individual.
This is demonstrated through a variety of reward features and processes Underlying financial performance that ensure alignment to risk considerations throughout the Does Jupiters underlying financial performance support the proposed organisation.
For example: variable compensation pool funding?
l Consider performance against financial KPIs listed in the Annual Report.
l When assessing the overall variable compensation pool as l Is there any reason to believe the financial results are not a fair reflection of described on page 70, the Committee considers a number of underlying performance?
checkpoints, as described in the checkpoints chart on the right Request and consider input from the Audit and Risk Committee.
l Assessment of individual performance includes consideration of Risk a scorecard of financial and non-financial metrics.
This ensures Does Jupiters risk profile and risk management support the variable compensation pool?
that the way in which performance has been achieved is taken l Consideration of the Enterprise Risk Management report.
into account, for example in terms of risk and repeatability.
For Are all risks being suitably monitored and managed?
H ave there been any all employees there is consideration of performance against risk material failures of risk management or any near misses in the year?
and compliance criteria, ensuring there is risk adjustment at an l Consider whether profit reflects current and future risks and timing individual level.
and likelihood of future revenues.
Request and consider input from the Head of Risk a nd the Audit and Risk l All employees with bonuses of over 100,000 have a portion of Committee.
bonus deferred into shares and or fund units.
When considered in conjunction with LTIP awards, this means that around 25% of Compliance employees are subject to some kind of deferral, ensuring their Have there been any material compliance breaches in the year?
interests are aligned to the long-term success of the Group.
l Consideration of any significant compliance breaches and or near misses.
l Shareholding requirements apply to Executive Directors and l Consideration of any fines received in the year and any ongoing Executive Committee members, further enhancing the link to regulatory investigations.
Request and consider input from the Compliance Director.
l For Executive Directors and Executive Committee members, all variable remuneration is subject to malus and clawback Commercial provisions, whereby incentive awards may be reduced, withheld Are there any commercial drivers to support adjustments to the variable or reclaimed in certain circumstances, including where there has compensation pool?
been a material failure of risk management.
l Consider the market for talent and whether the pool would likely result in any significant over underpayment against the market.
In addition to the Compliance Director and the Audit and Risk Committee feeding into the process, the Head of Risk presents Reputational a report to the Committee, setting out thoughts and assurances Are there any reputational drivers to support adjustments to the variable around how the remuneration structures and processes support compensation pool?
sound and effective risk management.
l Has there been any reputational damage to the Group in the year?
l Will the proposed variable compensation pool quantum have any adverse reputational impact on the Group?
Variable compensation pool approval COMPLIANCE STATEMENT This Remuneration report was prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
This report contains both audited and non-audited information.
The information subject to audit is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration and is identied accordingly.
During the year Jupiter has been subject to a number of regulations including CRD IV level three then subsequently CRD III and also parts of the rm were subject to AIFMD and UCITS V. The Committee fulls all of its requirements under these regulations and ensures that the remuneration policy adheres to their principles.
The Group has followed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
68 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation in 2016 Single total figure EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2016 AND 2015 REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION 1 2 3 Director Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson Charlotte Jones Maarten Slendebroek 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 '000 '000 000 000 A.
2 Figures for Philip Johnson reect the period served as Chief Financial Officer to 18 May 2016.
3 Figures for Charlotte Jones reect the period served as Chief Financial Officer from 5 September 2016.
4 C omprised of private medical insurance and reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and payment of any tax arising.
5 Represents employer pension contributions and or cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
There are no dened benefit arrangements.
6 T hese amounts have been determined by the Remuneration Committee based on performance against the relevant annual bonus performance measures in respect of the relevant year.
7 T he value of the LTIP awards vesting is based on the Remuneration Committees determination of performance against the relevant LTIP performance measures across prior multi-year performance periods.
8 T he value of the 2013 LTIP award vesting in 2016 has been restated based on a share price on the vesting date 4 April 2016 of 4.11 and vesting due to performance of 71%.
Note that this award represents a buy-out award for Maarten Slendebroek for awards forfeited from a previous employer.
9 E stimated value of the 2013 LTIP award vesting in 2017 based on 49% vesting due to performance and average closing share price over the period 1 October to 31 December 2016 of 4.37 the actual vesting date is 4 April 2017.
10 E stimated value of the 2014 LTIP award vesting in 2017 based on 41% vesting due to performance and average closing share price over the period 1 October to 31 December 2016 of 4.37 the actual vesting date is 3 April 2017.
11 Estimated values of the 2014 LTIP award are not included for John Chatfeild-Roberts and Philip Johnson as neither were Executive Directors at the end of the performance period in relation to this award.
For transparency, the estimated value of the 2014 LTIP award vesting in 2017 based on 41% vesting due to performance and average closing shareprice over the period 1 October to 31 December 2016 4.37 is 114,194 for John Chatfeild-Roberts and 85,644 for Philip Johnson.
12 J oiner Plan Award for Charlotte Jones granted in 2016 not subject to performance conditions, vesting 50% 31 January 2018, 50% 31 January 2019.
This award represents a buy-out award for awards forfeited from a previous employer.
Further details are on page 75.
13 Figure for Edward Bonham Carter represents cash payment in lieu of special dividend, in line with treatment for all other employees.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 REMUNERATION REPORT Single total figure continued VARIABLE PAY AWARDS FOR 2016 PERFORMANCE Outline of approach Variable pay awards for 2016 performance have been determined using a three-stage process, namely: l Determine a Group-wide variable compensation pool expressed as a percentage of Jupiters adjusted available profit, with appropriate consideration of the checkpoints detailed on page 68. l Assessment of corporate and individual performance.
l Allocation of awards to the individual Executive Directors out of the pool and appropriate apportionment of awards between the 2016 annual bonus and the 2017 LTIP grant.
Determining the variable compensation pool We operate a capped Group-wide variable compensation pool to ensure that variable remuneration payments are appropriate and affordable in the context of Jupiters overall performance.
In this way, all variable compensation is capped on an aggregate basis.
The distribution of available profit continues to follow a balanced approach with distribution between various stakeholder groups including shareholders and employees as shown in further detail on page 7.
The variable compensation pool is determined each year by recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to the Board as a proportion of adjusted available profit and takes into account the Groups performance.
In normal circumstances, the pool is capped at 27.5% of adjusted available profit.
Jupiters adjusted available profit for 2016 was 232.4m available profit: 236.0m.
Following consideration the variable compensation pool, as determined by the Committee was 63.9m 27.5%.
The proposed variable compensation pool from this first step is then evaluated in the financial reporting context.
This considers the accounting treatment for the deferred components of the pool, both in relation to the current and prior years variable compensation, and assesses whether the overall variable and total compensation ratios as reported in the financial review on page 27 are in the appropriate range.
We expect the variable compensation ratio to remain at a high 20% level over the medium term, and the total compensation ratio to be at a low 30% level over the medium term: although they may differ from these levels in any particular year for the reasons explained on page 27.
For 2016, the variable compensation ratio was 28%, 2015: 28% comfortably within the expected range.
The total compensation ratio, which factors in all xed and variable compensation expense, was stable at 33%, also in line with 2015.
Assessing corporate financial performance The following table sets out Jupiters actual performance against target performance for the primary measures relating to profitability, ows and investment outperformance.
Corporate financial Primary measure Target performance Actual performance Comments Profitability EBITDA 167.3m 171.6m profitability has exceeded prior year and target Net revenue increased by 6.6% year on year while operating costs rose by 11.2% Flows Net sales 2,603m 1,047m Underperformed target and prior year.
Q1 and Q3 were strong but Q2 in the run up to the UKs vote on EU membership was a challenging environment with subdued client activity.
Q4 was also disappointing Many active managers suffered net outows during 2016.
Jupiters international offices, built up over the last four years, accounted for all positive net sales for the year, compensating for the tougher UK market Investment Proportion of Funds 60% 66% Continued strong performance in 2016. outperformance weighted by AUM Of the 66%, 61% achieved top quartile achieving performance performance of 1st or 2nd quartile over 3 years 55% of funds weighted by AUM achieving first or second quartile performance over one year, 74% of funds achieving first or second quartile performance over five years 70 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Assessing corporate strategic performance The following table sets out additional supporting commentary and information the Committee referenced in assessing overall performance in each of these areas.
Corporate strategic Commentary and discussion Growth l Value delivered by identifying new sources of growth, with Germany and Sweden delivering the highest initiatives contribution to growth l New offices opened in Milan and Madrid in 2016 l New product initiatives over recent years are also yielding tangible results, most notably Absolute Return, Asian Income and Global Emerging Markets funds Risk l New risk management framework and risk appetite statement now well understood and embedded across the management rm, driven by strong leadership and communication framework Talent and l New leadership appointments at the Executive Committee, in Fund Management, Fund and Client Servicing, succession Investment Operations and Technology, coupled with an accelerated hiring programme for key regulatory and management platform development projects, have signicantly strengthened the team leading the growth agenda.
A new CFO and a new General Counsel were appointed l Embedded corporate values and culture in the induction plan, improved employee communications programme via town halls and an all staff meeting programme with the Chief Executive l Detailed review of succession plans for Board members, Executive Committee members and the two reporting levels beneath the Executive Committee, including all critical roles, FCA Remuneration Code Staff and fund managers Assessing individual performance The following table sets out supporting commentary and information the Committee referenced in assessing individual performance.
Individual performance Commentary and discussion Maarten Maarten has led the senior management team to achieve continued strong three-year rolling investment Slendebroek, outperformance, good financial results and 1bn net ows despite an environment of outows in our sector of the Chief Executive industry.
In addition, further progress has been made on the key strategic objectives set by the Board to underpin the Officer long-term sustainable growth in Jupiters business.
These activities comprise the acquisition of talent, including fund managers to lead significant new strategies, the associated product development, decisions on future infrastructure and broader organisational development involving key functional hires, including a new CFO and a new General Counsel.
Other specic milestones include opening of Italian and Spanish offices supporting significant diversication of our client base and the launch and development of both existing and new products, diversifying our product range and supporting Jupiters continued revenue growth.
Philip Johnson, Philip prepared and led the company through the annual report and annual result cycle of 2015.
During the spring of Chief Financial 2016 he continued to support the CEO and the Head of Finance on general financial matters and with specic Officer investor relations matters.
4.5 months Charlotte Jones, Despite arriving well into the annual financial cycle, Charlotte was able to lead a highly effective financial planning Chief Financial and budget process, engage effectively with analysts and investors, and oversee a smooth year end process.
Officer Charlotte has made an immediate positive impact on the quality and availability of management information 4 months covering our increasingly complex and international revenue streams and on profitability analysis.
In addition Charlotte has also worked with the finance team to develop a dynamic balance sheet management process, which will benefit the rm in future years.
Edward Bonham Consistent with 2015 performance, as Vice Chairman, Edward has continued to make a highly valued contribution to Carter, Jupiter, in particular in the public policy and governance space.
He has attended many client and industry meetings Vice Chairman and spoken at numerous events to raise Jupiters prole.
Edward has helped Maarten and the CIO with talent development, key hires and strategic decisions, drawing on his long experience as a fund manager and previously as CEO of the Company.
John ChatfeildThe important three year rolling investment performance across the Merlin range continued to improve through 2016 Roberts, and now is 2nd quartile for that period.
Improved performance coupled with John and the Merlin teams intensive Executive work with clients and financial advisors paid off in the sense that Merlin related revenues were at year on year.
For Director the funds John manages directly, the performance ranking is second quartile over one year and first quartile over 11 months three years.
Johns leadership of the Merlin team includes overseeing the development of individual team members and the overall team.
During 2016 John provided valuable investment insights to the Board and we continued to benefit from his deep understanding of the active asset management industry.
John made the decision to step down from the Board in November 2016 to devote all his time to investing, managing the Merlin team and spending time with clients and their advisors.
We are grateful for Johns enormous contribution to building out Jupiter to the rm it is today and are of course looking forward to Johns continued engagement outside of the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 REMUNERATION REPORT Allocation of awards to Executive Directors out of the variable compensation pool and apportionment of awards between the 2016 annual bonus and the 2017 LTIP grant Based on its holistic assessment of the performance outlined above, the shareholder and client experience in the year, assessment of risk and compliance underpins and the recommendation of the Chief Executive in respect of other Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee applied its judgement to make the variable pay awards summarised below.
Although the overall variable compensation pool is larger in 2016 than 2015, the awards to Executive Directors are smaller than 2015 both in absolute terms and as a percentage of the pool.
This primarily reects two factors: l Corporate financial performance was good in 2016, and profitability was higher than 2015, net sales were lower than 2015 and target.
l There was increased allocation of the variable compensation pool to high performing parts of the business and to the strengthened corporate and operational functions necessary to support future growth plans.
Accordingly, there was reduced capacity within the pool for Executive Director awards.
Philip Johnson Charlotte Jones John Chatfeild-Roberts Maarten Slendebroek Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer Edward Bonham Carter Executive Director 3 Variable compensation Chief Executive Officer for 5 months service for 4 months service Vice Chairman full year Total bonus for 2016 included in single figure table on page 69 1,750,000 320,000 250,000 290,000 1,900,000 Delivered as cash 1,090,000 320,000 190,000 214,000 1,180,000 Deferred into shares for 3 years 660,000 - 60,000 76,000 720,000 2017 LTIP award face value of shares at 1 grant 1,450,000 - 500,000 250,000 500,000 3,200,000 320,000 750,000 540,000 2,400,000 Total variable pay award for 2016 performance 2015: 3,350,000 2015: 775,000 2015: n a 2015: 570,000 2015: 2,700,000 Variable pay award as % of 5.7% 0.6% 1.3% 1.0% 4.3% variable compensation 2 pool 2015: 6.2% 2015: 1.4% 2015: n a 2015: 1.1% 2015: 5.0% 1 LTIP awards will cliff vest after a three-year period, subject to the following performance measures: 25% of the award underlying EPS growth compared to a comparator index 25% of the award proportion of Jupiter mutual funds weighted by AUM that are in the first or second quartile 25% of the award net sales compared to market adjusted targets 25% of the award strategic goals T he targets for each of these measures will be the same as have been used for LTIP awards granted from 2013 onwards as set out on page 73.
To the extent that these targets are not satisfied, the LTIP awards will lapse.
A risk and compliance underpin also applies to these awards.
2 Calculation also includes employers social security cost.
3 John Chatfeild-Roberts stepped down as an Executive Director on 30 November 2016, however the gures included in the table above represent full year 12 month amounts to allow for comparison to the prior year.
The 2016 outcomes reect a further increase in the weighting of the CEOs variable pay towards LTIP awards subject to additional threeyear performance conditions rather than annual bonus awards.
As the chart below illustrates, since his appointment as an Executive Director in 2012, Maarten Slendebroeks LTIP awards have increased from 29% to 45% as a proportion of his total variable pay award.
Maarten was appointed as CEO in March 2014.
Form of variable compensation for Maarten Slendebroek 100 Cash bonus Deferred bonus LTIP face value grant 29% 36% 37% 75 45% 26% 50 24% 24% 21% 25 45% 40% 39% 34% 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 72 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Single total figure continued PERFORMANCE CONDITION TESTING FOR 2014 LTIP AWARD, VESTING 3 APRIL 2017 The LTIP award vesting gures for Edward Bonham Carter, John Chatfeild-Roberts, Philip Johnson and Maarten Slendebroek shown in the single total gures on page 69 include LTIP awards due to vest on 3 April 2017, subject to performance conditions measured over a three year period to 31 December 2016.
The performance conditions have been tested and performance against those conditions and the associated level of vesting is outlined below.
Performance condition Performance against the condition over the performance period Proportion of condition vesting Underlying EPS vs index Jupiters underlying EPS grew by 5.4% on an 0% of condition vesting l 30% vesting for 5% growth in excess of the annualised basis.
0% of total award index: The index grew by 6.4% on an annualised basis.
l 100% vesting for Jupiters underlying EPS growth Jupiters annualised underlying EPS growth did not exceeding the index by 10% per annum: and therefore exceed the index by 5%.
l Straight-line vesting between these points.
Actual net sales against target Jupiters net sales over the performance period were 0% of condition vesting l 30% vesting for net sales 80% of target: 3.85bn, representing 69% of the 5.57bn target.
0% of total award l 65% vesting for net sales 100% of target: l 100% vesting for net sales 125% of target: and l Straight-line vesting between these points.
Investment outperformance Jupiters investment performance was such that 66% 64% of condition vesting Proportion of mutual funds achieving first and of mutual funds achieved first and second quartile 16% of total award second quartile performance over three years, performance over the performance period, weighted by AUM: weighted by AUM.
l 25% vesting for 50%: l 100% vesting for 80%: and l Straight-line vesting between these points.
Strategic goals There has been significant development in the senior 100% of condition vesting l Developing existing employees and recruiting management team over the performance period.
25% of total award new talent to provide the performance, This included the successful transition and succession products and service required by clients.
of senior fund managers and senior executives, continued deepening of the senior leadership team, l Broadening the client base in the UK and including several promotions to the Executive internationally.
Committee and hiring of a new Chief Financial l Maintaining an appropriate risk control and Officer, Head of Global Distribution and General compliance environment.
Over the performance period there have been further significant hires in the distribution function both domestic and internationally, product specialists in Fund Management, and a growing number of technical experts in support functions.
The Company has recruited a number of fund managers to manage new investment strategies including Asian Income and Emerging Market Debt.
Considerable growth has been achieved in the UK Wealth channel over the last three years.
AUM has grown from approximately 2.3bn at the start of 2014 to approximately 10.5bn at the end of 2016.
Internationally, Jupiter has expanded signicantly over the performance period with new offices opened in Sweden, Austria, Italy and Spain, as well as additional distribution headcount added to strengthen existing overseas offices.
The growth in Jupiters international presence has led to a substantial increase in external mutual fund assets in Jupiters SICAVs.
There have been no major risk or compliance issues over the performance period.
In addition, risk and control processes have been signicantly enhanced over the years through the development and implementation of an Enterprise Risk Framework.
Total 41% vesting Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 REMUNERATION REPORT Single total figure continued PERFORMANCE CONDITION TESTING FOR 2013 LTIP AWARD, VESTING 4 APRIL 2017 The LTIP award vesting gure for Maarten Slendebroek shown in the single total gure on page 69 includes an LTIP award due to vest on 4 April 2017, subject to performance conditions measured over a four year period to 31 December 2016.
Performance condition Performance against the condition over the performance period Proportion of condition vesting Underlying EPS vs index Jupiters underlying EPS grew by 11.6% on an 0% of condition vesting l 30% vesting for 5% growth in excess of the annualised basis.
0% of total award index: The index grew by 7.8% on an annualised basis.
Actual net sales against target Jupiters net sales over the performance period were 0% of condition vesting l 30% vesting for net sales 80% of target: 5.05bn, representing 68% of the 7.45bn target.
Investment outperformance Jupiters investment performance was such that 78% 95% of condition vesting Proportion of mutual funds achieving first and of mutual funds achieved first and second quartile 24% of total award second quartile performance over three years, performance over the performance period, weighted by AUM: weighted by AUM.
Strategic goals Three of the four years in the performance period 100% of condition vesting l Developing existing employees and recruiting for this award overlap with the 2014 LTIP on the 25% of total award new talent to provide the performance, previous page.
Therefore the commentary regarding products and service required by clients.
performance against strategic goals for the 2014 LTIP is applicable here as well.
l Broadening the client base in the UK and internationally.
In addition, new offices were opened in Hong Kong and Frankfurt in 2013, in combination with the hiring l Maintaining an appropriate risk control and of a Head of Asia Pacic and Head of Germany, compliance environment.
Switzerland and Austria to strengthen Jupiters distribution capabilities in these regions.
A new senior fund manager started with Jupiter in 2013 to run the Groups absolute return strategy.
2013 also saw growth in our non-UK presence with AUM growing by 39% during the year.
In absolute terms the UK IFA channel grew by 1.7bn.
Total 49% vesting 74 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Single total figure continued EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the Boards prior approval.
During the year Edward Bonham Carter served as a Non-Executive Director of Land Securities Group plc, for which he was paid fees of 73,810 which he retains.
APPOINTMENT OF CHARLOTTE JONES Charlotte Jones joined the Board on 5 September 2016 as the Companys new CFO.
As a senior executive, Charlotte Jones had a number of remuneration arrangements from her previous employment which were necessary to consider as part of her recruitment package.
The value of the forgone remuneration was considered at the time of her recruitment to ensure that any package offered by the Company was on no more favourable terms and complied with any regulatory requirements.
Charlotte Jones remuneration arrangements on appointment aligned with the remuneration policy in place at the time of her appointment, comprising a base salary of 250,000 per annum, participation in the annual bonus plan based on corporate and individual performance 2016 bonus pro-rated to reect the part of the year she worked for Jupiter, including being subject to the normal deferral and malus and clawback provisions that apply to all Executive Directors.
Charlotte is also eligible to receive an LTIP award of 500,000 in March April 2017, subject to the same performance conditions applicable to all Executive Directors.
Buy-out awards A number of deferred compensation arrangements in place at the previous employer were bought out as part of the recruitment package.
These buy-out awards were granted in the form of both cash and option awards over shares in the Company as follows, on terms that were no more favourable than those in respect of the award being bought out: l A cash payment of 530,000 payable on 28 February 2017.
This payment is to mirror an identical cash award that would have been payable on the same date from her previous employer.
The cash payment by Jupiter will be subject to clawback where there is gross misconduct or material damage to the reputation of the Company for which the executive is personally responsible.
l A cash payment of 214,000 payable on 1 August 2017.
l Options were granted under a one-off award under a stand alone plan the Joiner Plan to buy out previous awards that vested over less than three years the minimum vesting period permitted under the LTIP rules, the details of which are provided below.
The value of the options granted under the Joiner Plan are included in the single gure table for Charlotte Jones.
Key features of Joiner Plan l The Joiner Plan awards comprise options to acquire shares in the Company.
l The options have been granted over a total of 93,184 shares and no further grants may be made under the Joiner Plan.
l The Joiner Plan options vest and become exercisable for a period of two years with an exercise price payable of 0.02 per share as follows: 31 January 2018: 46,592 shares and 31 January 2019: 46,592 shares.
l The options will not be subject to performance conditions as the deferred awards being bought out did not have any performance conditions attached to them.
l To the extent they are unvested, the options granted under the Joiner Plan will lapse if Charlotte Jones ceases to be employed by Jupiter other than for death, disability or termination without cause.
l Any gains arising on the exercise of options granted under the Joiner Plan will not be regarded as pensionable salary.
l The shares used to settle the exercise of the Joiner Plan options will not be newly issued nor treasury shares: and l Malus and clawback provisions will apply to the awards under the Joiner Plan.
In addition to the above, a number of share awards were not bought out by Jupiter and lapsed on Charlotte Jones resignation from her previous employer.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Two Directors stepped down from the Board during 2016.
John Chatfeild-Roberts remains as an employee of Jupiter in his role as Head of Strategy for the Independent Funds Team.
No payments were made to him in respect of his cessation as a Director.
His existing LTIP and DBP awards will continue to vest on the terms which they were originally granted, with current unvested LTIP awards subject to performance condition testing.
Information regarding the cessation of Philip Johnson as a Director was fully disclosed in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report.
The performance period in respect of the LTIP award vesting in April 2017 for both John and Philip ended after they ceased to be Directors, however the estimated values are included as footnotes in the single gure table in the interests of transparency.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS No payments were made to former Directors during the year.
5 Benets comprise reimbursement of reasonable travel expenses incurred in the performance of duties and the payment of any tax arising.
76 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Implementation in 2017 The following section provides an overview as to how each element of the Policy will be applied in 2017.
BASE SALARY There has been no increase in salaries for Executive Directors and therefore the salaries effective from 1 January 2017 will remain as follows: l Maarten Slendebroek: 250,000 2016: 250,000 : l Charlotte Jones: 250,000 2016: 250,000 : and l Edward Bonham Carter: 160,000 2016: 160,000.
VARIABLE PAY AWARDS FOR 2017 PERFORMANCE Variable pay awards for 2017 performance will be determined using the same structure that was used in 2016 outlined on pages 70-72.
In summary, this will comprise: l Determination of a capped Group-wide variable compensation pool expressed as a percentage of Jupiters adjusted available profit.
In determining the appropriate percentage, the Remuneration Committee will take into account a range of relevant factors including an assessment of the appropriate distribution of profits between shareholders and employees, overall Group performance, the variable and total compensation ratios reported on page 27 of the financial review and risk compliance factors.
The pool is, in normal circumstances, capped at 27.5% of adjusted available profit and was 27.5% in both 2015 and 2016. l Determination by the Remuneration Committee of awards to the individual Executive Directors out of the pool.
The basis for this allocation in 2017 is outlined below.
The CEOs allocation was 5.7% in 2016 as against 6.2% in 2015: the aggregate allocation for other Executive Directors was 7.2% in 2016 as against 7.5% in 2015. l Awards will be apportioned between the 2017 annual bonus and the 2018 LTIP grant.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the appropriate allocation of each individual Executive Directors variable compensation between annual bonus and LTIP awards taking into account regulatory requirements, market practice and the aim of ensuring executives have appropriate long-term alignment with shareholders.
As illustrated on page 72, 45% of the CEOs 2016 variable pay award was allocated to LTIP awards compared to 37% of his 2015 variable pay award.
There will be three key changes that will affect Executive Directors variable pay awards for 2017 performance: 1.
In line with new regulatory requirements under UCITS V, a more significant proportion of any annual bonus award will be deferred in shares as set out below.
Proportion of bonus Delivery method l Delivered as cash.
25% l Delivered as deferred Jupiter shares.
l Immediate vesting, but subject to subsequent six month post vesting holding period.
l Three year vesting period, but subject to subsequent six month post vesting holding period.
Executive Director variable pay awards annual bonus plus LTIP will be determined within a more structured framework.
A variety of factors affect Executive Director variable pay awards: the size of the variable compensation pool, demands on the pool from elsewhere in the Group, Group performance, individual Director performance and an overarching risk assessment.
Determination of Executive Director variable pay awards by the Remuneration Committee, therefore, requires the exercise of judgement rather than being formulaic.
This judgement is informed by clear metrics and objective measures as much as possible.
The determination of variable pay awards in relation to 2017 performance will continue to be assessed with the application of judgement, taking into account a holistic assessment of Group and individual performance.
In order to provide shareholders with greater comfort about the rigour of this process, the structure of the framework that underpins the Remuneration Committees judgment has been improved, as described in the diagram on the following page.
The balanced scorecard, set out in the table on the following page, will allow the Committee to assess performance against key financial and strategic metrics.
The Committees assessment against these metrics and the decision for any variable pay awards will be clearly disclosed to shareholders using the process described below the balanced scoredcard.
Notwithstanding this structure, any variable pay awards will remain subject to availability of funding from the capped variable compensation pool.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 REMUNERATION REPORT Setting targets and assessing performance Start of the year set targets l The Board agrees and sets the budget for Jupiter for the performance year ahead.
l The Committee, in consultation with management, then sets the: Metrics which will be assessed: Mix between corporate quantitative at least 75% and corporate strategic and individual objectives no more than 25% : and Targets for each performance level threshold, target and maximum for quantitative metrics, taking in to account the level of stretch in the budget.
l Annual bonus metrics and weighting will be disclosed prospectively.
During the year monitor performance l Performance is monitored and evaluated against the metrics throughout the year.
l The Committee is provided with regular updates from management on performance status and from the Head of Risk on risk and compliance issues.
End of the year assess performance l The Committee assesses performance and determines the resulting pay-out in the first instance.
Bonus determination is not formulaic and judgement is applied.
l In reaching its decision, the Committee considers actual performance quantitative and qualitative against each metric and the target ranges set, i. e. where performance sits between the threshold, target and maximum.
This is then supplemented by the Committee considering the following to ensure they apply appropriate judgement in deciding pay-outs: Is the level of the overall variable compensation pool appropriate?
This includes consideration of the checkpoints on page 68.
Control function input from the Head of Risk and Compliance Director.
The context in which this performance was achieved, having reference to but not limited to prior year performance and associated bonus: shareholder and client experience in the year: risk and compliance underpins: and any clawback or malus events.
After the end of the year disclosure l Target ranges and actual performance against objective measures will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration, with clear commentary for subjective measures.
l Commentary will also be provided on how the Committee reached its decisions, including particular challenges and any other factors which were taken in to account.
Balanced scorecard Area Metric Performance measures Corporate Profitability l Primarily measured through EBITDA quantitative 75% l Supported by reference to net revenue, xed costs and EPS Flows l Primarily measured through net sales l Supported by reference to gross sales, market share sales growth and market conditions across different geographies Investment l Primarily measured through the proportion of funds weighted by AUM achieving first outperformance or second quartile performance over three years l Supported by reference to the proportion of funds weighted by AUM achieving first or second quartile performance over one and five years, the proportion of funds weighted by AUM achieving top and bottom quartile over three years and the proportion of funds weighted by AUM achieving better than benchmark performance over one, three and five years.
Diversification l Level of diversication of the products, asset classes and client base in the UK and internationally Strategic and Operating effectiveness l Successfully delivering planned changes to the efficient and scalable operating platform individual 25% l Maintanence of appropriate operational risk control environment and regulatory compliance Culture and people l Ensure we attract, develop and retain the right skills and talent to support our growth whilst adhering to our corporate values and our culture of high performance, individual responsibility and putting clients first.
Personal performance l Achievement against specic personal performance objectives Underpin Risk and regulatory l The Committee considers the checkpoints set out on page 68 when exercising its compliance judgement to determine the appropriate variable compensation pool, at a Group level l The Committee also receives regular and annual reports on internal control and risk management factors from the Head of Risk and the Compliance Director to consider when assessing appropriate awards, at an individual level l Any risk and compliance factors corporate or individual has the potential to reduce variable compensation, including to zero 3.
Improved disclosure of performance targets.
As part of the process of agreeing the variable pay structure for 2017, the Remuneration Committee has set ranges threshold to maximum around the agreed budget gures for the primary corporate financial metrics.
These ranges take into account the level of stretch in the budget and the perceived potential for out-performance or under-performance of the budget.
As outlined above, determination of variable pay awards will continue to involve a holistic judgement by the Remuneration Committee rather than a formulaic assessment, however the ranges will provide greater structure to support the Committees assessments.
There will be disclosure of the ranges for the primary corporate financial and measurable strategic performance conditions in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report when they are no longer considered commercially sensitive.
78 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Jupiter normally reviews Non-Executive Director fees annually.
The Non-Executive Chairman fee was last increased with effect from 1 January 2016 and no change is proposed for 2017.
The annual fees applicable for all other Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in 2016 and, as a result, an adjustment to certain fees was made with effect from 1 January 2017, reecting the increased time commitment and regulatory complexity impacting the Company over recent years.
2016 annual fee 2017 annual fee Base fee 60,000 62,500 Senior Independent Director fee 7,500 10,000 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee 15,000 18,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee 15,000 18,000 Audit and Risk Committee member fee 7,500 7,500 Remuneration Committee member fee 7,500 7,500 Non-Executive Chairman fee all inclusive 225,000 225,000 Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses.
The roles and committee responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors during 2016 were as follows: Director Title Roles and Committee responsibilities Liz Airey Independent Chairman Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee member Jonathon Bond Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee member Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Jon Little Independent Non-Executive Director No Committee roles during 2016 Stepped down from the Board 31 October 2016 Lorraine Trainer Independent Non-Executive Director and Audit and Risk Committee member Senior Independent Director Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee Chairman Senior Independent Director Bridget Macaskill Independent Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee member appointed December 2016 Remuneration Committee member Polly Williams Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee Chairman Nomination Committee member appointed December 2016 Karl Sternberg Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee member appointed July 2016 Nomination Committee member appointed December 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 REMUNERATION REPORT Directors shareholdings audited information Unvested ordinary shares Unvested Unvested held at options, vesting options, Ordinary shares 31 December Vested but not subject to vesting subject Total options held at 2016 Total ordinary unexercised performance to performance over ordinary Shareholding 31 December subject to shares held at options at conditions at conditions at shares held at as a 2016 continued 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December percentage 5 Director no restrictions employment 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 of salary Edward Bonham Carter 11,006,323 463 11,006,786 103,746 204,158 161,669 469,573 30,065% John Chatfeild- 1,2 Roberts 4,351,426 588 4,352,014 526,931 335,032 861,963 7,608% 1,3 Philip Johnson 1,332,319 1,332,319 198,114 250,925 449,039 2,329% Maarten Slendebroek 297,268 462 297,730 482,322 998,131 1,480,453 520% Charlotte Jones Liz Airey 45,450 45,450 Jonathon Bond 18,294 18,294 4 Jon Little 2,513 2,513 Lorraine Trainer 24,242 24,242 1 Bridget Macaskill 30,000 30,000 Polly Williams Karl Sternberg 6,687 6,687 1 Includes connected persons holding.
2 Figures for John Chatfeild-Roberts are as at 30 November 2016, the date he stepped down as a Director.
3 Figures for Philip Jones are as at 18 May 2016, the date he stepped down as a Director.
4 Figures for Jon Little are as at 31 October 2016, the date he stepped down as a Director.
5 T he high percentage of shares held by Edward Bonham Carter, John Chatfeild-Roberts and Philip Johnson relate to shares purchased by them during the period 2007-2010 while Jupiter was privately owned.
There have been no changes to the above interests between the year end and 23 February 2017 the latest practicable date before the printing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Remuneration Committee has a policy that Executive Directors should maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
The policy in operation for the 2016 performance year provides that Executive Directors should hold shares in the Company with a value equivalent to at least 150% of base salary.
Maarten Slendebroek, Edward Bonham Carter and John Chatfeild-Roberts all hold shares with a value in excess of 150% of base salary as at 31 December 2016.
Following her recent appointment to the Board, Charlotte Jones will be required to build up her required shareholding and this will be kept under review.
As detailed in the Remuneration policy review section, the Remuneration Committee have decided to increase the value of shares in the Company each Executive Director should hold to 300% of salary for the CEO and 200% of salary for all other Executive Directors.
80 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Share awards audited information DBP OPTIONS OVER JUPITER SHARES Options held at start Options exercised of year Options granted during the year lapsed during the year Options held at end of year Number of Number shares under Number Number of shares option held as of shares of shares under at 1 January 2016 Market Price under under option including April value used to Number option option held as 2016 Special per share determine of shares lapsed exercised at 31 Earliest Latest Year Dividend at date Grant Face value number under during during December exercise exercise 8 1 1 Director granted Adjustment of grant date at award of shares option the year the year 2016 date date Edward 2013 Bonham in respect 2 Carter of 2012 65,643 3.30 65,643 2014 in respect 03 April 03 July of 2013 142,759 4.14 142,759 2017 2017 2015 in respect 27 March 27 June of 2014 39,894 4.12 39,894 2018 2018 2016 in respect 01 April 01 April 01 July of 2015 2016 88,000 4.09 21,505 21,505 2019 2019 John 2013 Chatfeildin respect 9 3 Roberts of 2012 92,062 3.30 92,062 2014 in respect 03 April 03 July of 2013 163,154 4.14 163,154 2017 2017 2015 in respect 27 March 27 June of 2014 159,579 4.12 159,579 2018 2018 2016 in respect 01 April 01 April 01 July of 2015 2016 800,000 4.09 195,503 195,503 2019 2019 Philip 2013 9 Johnson in respect 4 of 2012 59,238 3.30 59,238 2014 in respect 5 of 2013 61,181 4.14 61,181 2015 in respect 6 of 2014 64,829 4.12 64,829 2016 01 in respect 01 April 01 April October 7 of 2015 2016 270,000 4.09 65,982 57,648 8,334 2019 2019 Maarten 2014 Slendebroek in respect 03 April 03 July of 2013 117,266 4.14 117,266 2017 2017 2015 in respect 27 March 27 June of 2014 169,553 4.12 169,553 2018 2018 2016 in respect 01 April 01 April 01 July of 2015 2016 800,000 4.09 195,503 195,503 2019 2019 1 Average closing share price from three trading days prior to date of grant.
2 Closing share price on date of exercise, 8 June 2016, was 4.35.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 285,547.
3 Closing share price on date of exercise, 13 April 2016, was 4.18.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 384,819.
4 Closing share price on date of exercise, 19 April 2016, was 4.21.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 249,392.
5 Closing share price on date of exercise, 23 June 2016, was 4.47.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 273,479.
6 Closing share price on date of exercise, 4 October 2016, was 4.54.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 294,324.
7 Closing share price on date of exercise, 9 June 2016, was 4.37.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 251,922.
8 Outstanding share awards were adjusted by 2.76% as a result of the 8 April 2016 Special Dividend.
9 John Chatfeild-Roberts and Philip Johnson stepped down as Directors on 30 November 2016 and 18 May 2016 respectively.
Key terms: no performance measures are attached to options granted under the DBP, although malus provisions may apply see the remuneration policy table for further details : no exercise price is payable on the exercise of DBP options: and holders of unvested share option awards are not entitled to cash dividend payments as the holders are not the legal owners of the shares.
The Remuneration Committee determined that it was appropriate for holders of share option awards under both the DBP and LTIP schemes to benefit from the 8 April 2016 Special Dividend.
This took place by means of adjusting upwards the number of shares over which options were held by a factor of 2.76% as permitted under the rules of the plans.
This factor is equivalent to the value the holder of a share option award would have received had they been entitled to receive the Special Dividend as a cash payment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 REMUNERATION REPORT Share awards audited information continued DBP OPTIONS OVER UNITS IN JUPITER FUNDS Options held at start Options exercised of year Options granted during the year during the year Options held at end of year Number of Number of units under Market units under option held value Price used Number of option held as at per unit to determine Number of shares under as at Earliest Latest Year 1 January at date Grant Face value number of units under option exercised 31 December exercise exercise Director granted 2016 of grant date at award units option during the year 2016 date date Edward 2013 Bonham in respect 1 3 Carter of 2012 317,042 0.65 317,042 John 2013 Chatfeildin respect 5 2 4 Roberts of 2012 220,154 1.31 220,154 1 Options over units in Jupiter Japan Income Accumulation Fund.
2 Options over units in Jupiter Merlin Balanced Accumulation Fund.
3 Closing fund unit price on 11 April 2016, was 0.80.
This resulted in a value of fund units on exercise of 253,634.
4 Closing fund unit price on 11 April 2016, was 1.48.
This resulted in a value of fund units on exercise of 325,828.
5 John Chatfeild-Roberts stepped down as a Director on 30 November 2016.
Key terms: no performance measures are attached to options granted under the DBP as they represent deferral of bonus, although malus provisions apply see the remuneration policy table for further details : no exercise price is payable on the exercise of DBP options: and unless a requirement of regulation, Executive Directors can no longer elect to receive any part of their DBP award in the form of options over units in Jupiter funds for grants from 2014 in respect of 2013 and beyond.
2 Closing share price on date of exercise, 13 April 2016 was 4.18.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 236,442.
3 Closing share price on date of exercise, 6 September 2016 was 4.27.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 265,714.
4 Closing share price on date of exercise, 19 April 2016 was 4.21.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 666,172.
5 Outstanding share awards were adjusted by 2.76% as a result of the 8 April 2016 Special Dividend.
6 John Chatfeild-Roberts and Philip Johnson stepped down as Directors on 30 November 2016 and 18 May 2016 respectively.
Key terms: performance conditions for LTIP awards granted in 2011 and 2012 are underlying EPS, net sales and strategic goals with the exception of Maarten Slendebroeks 2012 LTIP awards, where no performance conditions are attached as part of buy-out arrangements.
For LTIP awards granted from 2013 onwards, the performance conditions are: underlying EPS, net sales, investment outperformance and strategic goals.
These performance conditions are measured over the period 1 January in the year of grant to 31 December in the year prior to vesting and the targets are consistent with those for the 2014 award as shown on page 73: an exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of LTIP options: and the number of shares under award were adjusted as a result of the Special Dividend, as described under the DBP share table above.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 REMUNERATION REPORT Share awards audited information continued JOINER PLAN Options exercised Options held at start during the of year Options granted during the year year Options held at end of year Number of Number Number shares of shares of shares under Market Price under under option value used to Number option option as at per share determine of shares exercised as at Earliest Latest Year 1 January at date Grant Face value number of under during 31 December exercise exercise Director granted 2016 of grant date at award shares option the year 2016 date date Charlotte Jones 07 September 31 January 31 January 2016 2016 200,000 4.29 46,592 46,592 2018 2020 07 September 31 January 31 January 2016 2016 200,000 4.29 46,592 46,592 2019 2021 Key terms: the options granted under the Joiner Plan are one-off awards made as a buy-out of awards foregone by Charlotte Jones on resignation from her previous employer, in order to join Jupiter.
To match the terms of the awards foregone, no performance conditions are attached to the options granted under the Joiner Plan: an exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of Joiner Plan options: the options granted under the Joiner Plan will not be settled with newly issued shares: and malus and clawback provisions apply to the Joiner Plan awards.
SHARESAVE Options exercised Options held at start of year Options granted during the year lapsed during the year Options held at end of year Number of Number Number Number shares of shares of shares of shares under Market Price under under under option value used to Number option option option as at per share determine of shares lapsed exercised as at Earliest Latest 1 January at date Face value number of under during during the 31 December exercise exercise 1 2 Director 2016 of grant Grant date at award shares option the year year 2016 date date Edward Bonham Carter 3,092 3.64 3,092 3 Philip Johnson 3,092 3.64 3,092 3,030 3.43 3,030 John Chatfeild- 01 December 31 May 3 Roberts 8,695 4.31 8,695 2020 2021 1 A verage closing share price from three trading days prior to date of grant.
2 T o ensure participants were not adversely impacted by the 21 April 2015 and 8 April 2016 Special Dividend payments, all participants with unvested awards outstanding at the date of the Special Dividend payments will receive a cash payment upon vesting to compensate for the decrease in value of Sharesave interests.
3 Philip Johnson and John Chatfeild-Roberts stepped down as Directors on 18 May 2016 and 30 November 2016 respectively.
Key terms: no performance conditions are attached to Sharesave options: and the exercise price for Sharesave options is equal to the price used to determine the number of shares.
84 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Share awards audited information continued SIP Awards held at start Awards released of year Awards granted during the year forfeited during the year Awards held at end of year Number Number of shares Price Number Number of Number of shares subject to Market used to of shares shares of shares subject to award as at value determine granted released forfeited award as at 1 January per share Face value number of during the during the during the 31 December Earliest 1 1 Director 2016 at award Award date at award shares year year year 2016 vesting date Edward 457 3.28 457 02 May 2016 Bonham Carter 462 3.90 462 02 May 2017 02 October 1 3.50 1 2017 John Chatfeild- 38 3.28 38 02 May 2016 2 Roberts 38 3.24 38 03 June 2016 43 2.91 43 02 July 2016 02 August 35 3.56 35 2016 02 September 36 3.46 36 2016 02 October 34 3.72 34 2016 04 November 32 3.94 32 2016 02 December 32 3.90 32 2016 02 January 32 3.86 32 2017 03 February 34 3.68 34 2017 03 March 30 4.20 30 2017 29 4.26 29 02 April 2017 463 3.89 463 02 May 2017 2 457 3.28 457 Philip Johnson 462 3.90 462 1 3.50 1 418 4.30 418 Maarten Slendebroek 462 3.89 462 02 May 2017 1 Market price on the date of purchase of SIP shares.
2 John Chatfeild-Roberts and Philip Johnson stepped down as Directors on 30 November 2016 and 18 May 2016 respectively.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 REMUNERATION REPORT Dilution Our policy regarding dilution from employee share awards is to ensure that dilution will be no more than 10% in any rolling 10 year period and no more than 5% from employee share awards granted to Executive Directors of the Company in any rolling 10 year period.
As at 31 December 2016, share awards granted under the DBP, LTIP and Sharesave in the six and a half years since Jupiters Listing were outstanding over 17.6m shares including 2.0m granted to Executive Directors.
This represented 3.85% 0.45% to Executive Directors of the Companys issued share capital.
Our current intention is to settle all share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2016 with market purchased shares and our ongoing practice is to purchase shares in the market to settle obligations.
No new shares have been issued since Listing in 2010.
Therefore, we are currently operating within the relevant dilution targets by a comfortable margin.
Notwithstanding the target outlined above, as a business exposed to both market shocks and critical people issues, we believe we should retain exibility to act very quickly to take steps that could increase dilution up to a maximum of 15% on a temporary and short-term basis, if the Remuneration Committee and Board believe it is clearly in shareholders interests to do so.
If dilution were to exceed 10% in any rolling 10 year period, this would be on an exceptional basis and for a short time period.
The Remuneration report for the relevant year would also contain the necessary justications for such an outcome.
The Remuneration Committee and Board would ensure that dilution levels returned to within the 10% level in any rolling 10 year period as soon as practicable thereafter.
Pay vs performance Total shareholder return per cent.
Source: Datastream Jupiter Fund Management plc 360 FTSE 250 340 FTSE 350 General Financial Index 320 300 280 260 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The chart above shows the Companys share price performance based on total shareholder return, with dividends reinvested net of tax in the period since Listing on 21 June 2010, compared with the movement of the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index.
These two indices were chosen as the Company is in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index includes UK listed financial stocks, including asset managers.
TABLE OF HISTORIC LEVELS OF CEO PAY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1 CEO single gure of total remuneration 000 2,035 1,785 1,634 1,789 2,301 2,708 2,431 2 3 Long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity N A N A N A N A 46% 71% 44% 1 C alculated as Edward Bonham Carters remuneration to 17 March 2014 and Maarten Slendebroeks from 17 March 2014 when he took on the role of CEO, plus the value of Edward Bonham Carters LTIP award vesting based on performance to 31 December 2014.
2 No LTIP awards vested 2010 to 2013 as the first LTIP awards granted to the CEO after Listing were in 2012.
3 M aarten Slendebroek has two separate LTIP awards included in the 2016 single gure, both of which had performance periods ending during that financial year.
The 44% vesting is a weighted average of the vesting outcomes for both awards combined.
86 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Change in CEO pay vs employees The percentage change in the CEOs pay dened for these purposes as salary, taxable benets, cash bonus and DBP awards in respect of the relevant year between 2015 and 2016, and the same information, on an averaged basis, for all employees excluding Executive Directors is shown in the table below: All employees excluding Executive Directors CEO percentage change 2015 to 2016 percentage change 2015 to 2016 Base salary 0% 2% 1 Benets 6% 6% Bonus including DBP portion 17 % 4 % 1 Benets include taxable value of private medical insurance Relative importance of spend on pay The following chart shows the Groups profit after tax, total employee remuneration and dividends declared on ordinary shares for 2016 and 2015.
Additional illustration of how Jupiters available profit is distributed between stakeholders is demonstrated on page 7 of this report.
2015 profit after tax 132.1 m 2016 136.3 3% increase 2015 Total employee 96.3 remuneration m 2016 102.3 6% increase 2015 Dividend declared 116.7 m 2016 124.5 7% increase Shareholder voting The following table sets out the voting outcomes in respect of the most recent AGM votes on the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Percentage of Percentage of For total votes cast Against total votes cast Withheld Annual Report on Remuneration at 2016 AGM 242,683,520 88.97 30,100,002 11.03 104,124,385 Directors Remuneration Policy at 2014 AGM 322,158,578 96.93 10,216,245 3.07 4,799,064 Advisers Deloitte LLP is the appointed adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied as to Deloittes independence.
Fees paid to Deloitte for executive remuneration consulting were 158,951 in 2016.
Deloitte also provides advice to the Company relating to regulatory matters.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider that the other advice provided has any impact on Deloittes independence as adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary, HR Director and Head of Reward are invited to and attend Remuneration Committee meetings to contribute to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the Compliance Director, Head of Risk and Chief Investment Officer are invited to and attend Remuneration Committee meetings to provide specic input, where requested.
No individual is present when their remuneration is being discussed.
On behalf of the Board Lorraine Trainer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 directors rePort The Directors present their report and the Groups audited financial lr 9.8.
4r statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The following table is disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
The information required to be disclosed, where applicable to the PrinciPal activities and results Company, can be located in the Annual Report and Accounts at The Companys principal activity is to act as a holding company the references set out below: for a group of investment management companies.
Our business information location model is based on investment performance, growing value and Interest capitalised Not applicable effective distribution and is explained in the Strategic report.
The Shareholder waiver of dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 Group operates principally in the United Kingdom and has branches Shareholder waiver of future dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 of Jupiter Asset Management Limited operating overseas, together Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable with three overseas trading subsidiaries.
Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable The Company is incorporated with Company Number 6150195 and shareholder is domiciled in England and Wales.
Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report Other information, which forms part of this Directors report, can be and notes to the found in the following sections of the Annual Report and is deemed Accounts 1.5 to form part of this report: Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable l Commentary on the development and performance in the year ended 31 December 2016, and likely future developments Significant contracts Governance report in the Groups business, is included in the Strategic report.
Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable l Descriptions of the Groups financial risk management objectives in relation to major subsidiary and policies, and its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments, are set out in Note 5.3 to the Accounts.
Participation by parent of a placing by a Not applicable listed subsidiary l Information concerning Directors contractual arrangements and Publication of unaudited financial Other Information entitlements under share-based remuneration arrangements is information given in the Remuneration report.
l The Groups environmental performance data, including the All the information cross-referenced above is incorporated by absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2016, can be found in reference into this Directors report.
the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic report.
comPliance statement dtr 7.2 l Information concerning the involvement of employees in the business is also given in the Corporate Responsibility section of This statement has been provided by the Chairman in her the Strategic report.
introduction to the Governance section and is deemed to form part of this Directors report.
disclosure required under the listing rules and the disclosure guidance and internal control and risk management transParency rules dtr 4.1.
11r A description of the Companys financial reporting processes and Information which is the required content of the Management report the main features of its internal control and risk management can be found in the Strategic report and in this Directors report.
processes can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee report.
structure of caPital and voting rights dtr 7.2.
6 As at 31 December 2016 and 23 February 2017, there were 457,699,916 fully paid ordinary shares of 2p, amounting to 9,153,998.
Each share in issue is listed on the Official List maintained by the FCA in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority.
There were no changes to the share capital during the year.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry the right to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares have the right to participate in dividends and other distributions according to their respective rights and interests in the profits of the Company and a return of capital on a winding-up of the Company.
Full details regarding the exercise of voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on 17 May 2017 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, the appointment of a proxy to vote at a general meeting must be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
None of the ordinary shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
88 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION shares held in emPloyee benefit trusts aPPointment and rePlacement of directors Under the rules of the Jupiter Share Incentive Plan the SIP, which The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors may was introduced in 2013, eligible employees are entitled to acquire be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the ordinary shares in the Company.
The SIP shares are held in trust for Board.
If appointed by the Board, a Director holds office only until participants by Yorkshire Building Society the SIP Trustee.
The Articles of Association have detailed provisions rights are exercised by the SIP Trustee on receipt of participants regarding the retirement of Directors by rotation.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the SIP In accordance with the Codes requirements, all Directors offer Trustee, no vote is registered.
In addition, the SIP Trustees do not vote themselves for election or re-election at the AGM in 2017. on any unallocated shares held in trust.
As at 17 February 2017, the SIP Trustee held 0.13 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital.
In addition to any powers under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to remove Directors from office, the Company may, by passing an RBC cees Trustee Limited, as trustee of the Jupiter Employee Benefit ordinary resolution, remove any Director from the Board before the Trust the EBT Trustee, holds ordinary shares in trust for the benefit expiration of his or her period in office.
The Company may, subject of the Groups employees.
Where the EBT Trustee has allocated to the Articles of Association, appoint by ordinary resolution another shares held in the trust in respect of specific awards granted under person who is willing to be a Director in his or her place.
The the Jupiter Employee Share Plan, the holders of such awards may Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special recommend to the EBT Trustee as to how it should exercise voting resolution of the shareholders.
rights relating to such shares.
To the extent that a participant does not make such recommendations, no vote is registered.
In addition, The Directors are advised of their statutory duty to avoid conflicts of the EBT Trustee does not vote on any unallocated shares held in the interest with those of the Company.
All actual and potential conflicts trust.
As at 17 February 2017, the EBT Trustee held 2.14 per cent.
of are brought to the attention of the Board.
The operation of the the Companys issued share capital.
Companys policy on conflicts of interest is described in the Governance section.
board of directors The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary During the year, Philip Johnson stepped down as Chief Financial shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set Officer, John Chatfeild-Roberts stepped down as an Executive out in detail in the Companys Articles of Association, which are Director and Jon Little stepped down as a Non-Executive Director.
made available for inspection by the Companys shareholders at Karl Sternberg joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and the AGM.
Charlotte Jones was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Biographies for Karl Sternberg and Charlotte Jones are set substantial share interests out in the Governance section.
As at 31 December 2016 and 17 February 2017, the Company had The Directors who served during the year are as follows: received notifications from the following shareholders of their direct or indirect shareholding of 3%.
or more in the Companys issued Liz Airey share capital.
This information is disclosed pursuant to the FCAs Edward Bonham Carter Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Jonathon Bond number of John Chatfeild-Roberts to 30 November shares as at 31 december Percentage Philip Johnson to 18 May name 2016 interest % Charlotte Jones from 5 September Silchester International Investors LLP 39,372,052 8.60 Jon Little to 31 October Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 38,174,924 8.34 Bridget Macaskill Invesco Ltd 21,845,376 4.77 Maarten Slendebroek M&G Investment Management Ltd 20,893,916 4.56 Karl Sternberg from 22 July Lorraine Trainer BlackRock Inc 17,703,741 3.87 Polly Williams Marathon Asset Management LLP 16,592,737 3.63 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 16,059,597 3.51 directors and directors interests number of The Directors interests in the Companys shares are set out in the shares as at Remuneration report.
17 february Percentage name 2017 interest % Silchester International Investors LLP 45,724,221 9.99 statement of directors resPonsibilities Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 38,094,246 8.32 This statement, which is included later in this section, is deemed to Invesco Ltd 21,866,503 4.78 form part of this Directors report.
M&G Investment Management Ltd 21,158,916 4.62 BlackRock Inc 17,448,048 3.81 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 16,828,164 3.68 Marathon Asset Management LLP 16,650,122 3.64 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 DIRECTORS REPORT crest indePendent auditors and audit information The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system PwC were re-appointed as external auditors following a tender for stocks and shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the FRCs recommendations as set out in the Code, the Audit will be retendered within 10 years restrictions on transfer of shares of that appointment.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or the transfer of shares in going concern the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of shares that result in such restrictions.
The Strategic Report discusses the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, emPloyees performance and position.
In addition, it sets out the Groups financial position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for facilities.
The financial risk management note to the Financial employment from disabled persons, where a disabled person can Statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes adequately fulfil the jobs requirements.
Where existing employees for managing capital and its financial risk management objectives, become disabled, the Groups policy, wherever practicable, is to together with details of financial instruments and exposure to credit provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and liquidity risk.
and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees.
The Group has access to the financial resources required to run the business efficiently and has a strong gross cash position.
The Further details of the Companys employment procedures and Groups forecasts and projections, which are subject to rigorous practices are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of sensitivity analysis, show that the Group will be able to operate the Strategic report.
As a consequence, the Directors consider it appropriate to prepare the annual Financial Statements dividends on a going concern basis of accounting.
As set out in last years Annual Report, the Board changed its approach to dividends for 2015 onwards to enable prompt payment statement of viability alongside potential future special dividends, with the expectation In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors have that payment of dividends can be made in early April.
Accordingly, assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the the Directors have not recommended a final dividend but have 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
Details of the approved a full year dividend in respect of 2016 of 10.2p per assessment can be found in the Financial Review section of the ordinary share 2015: 10.6p per ordinary share.
Payment of this Strategic Report.
dividend is not subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM.
The Directors have also declared a special dividend of 12.5p per change of control ordinary share 2015: 10.9p per ordinary share.
Both dividends will be paid on 7 April 2017, to shareholders on the register at the close The Company does not have agreements with any Director or of business on 10 March 2017. employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control following a takeover Powers of the directors bid, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to vest in The Directors manage the Company under the powers set out in those circumstances.
the Companys Articles of Association.
These powers include the Directors ability to issue or buy back shares.
An ordinary resolution directors indemnities was passed at the AGM on 18 May 2016, authorising the Directors to allot new ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of The Companys Articles of Association permit the provision of 6,102,664, representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys indemnities to the Directors.
In accordance with the Articles of issued share capital.
The Directors intend to seek shareholders Association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in approval for the renewal of this authority at the AGM, to allot and favour of each Director which is a qualifying third-party indemnity grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares up to an aggregate provision under the Act pursuant to which the Director has been nominal amount of 3,051,332, representing approximately one-third granted the right to indemnification as permitted under the Act.
of the Companys issued share capital as at 23 February 2017.
These arrangements were in place throughout the year and up to If approved, this authority will expire on 30 June 2018 or, if earlier, the date of approval of this report and applied to the current and at the conclusion of the AGM in 2018. previous Directors.
In addition, during the year the Company has maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance cover for Directors.
At the AGM in 2016, shareholders approved a resolution authorising the Company to make purchases of its own shares.
As at 23 February 2017, the Directors have not used this authority.
A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the Companys limited authority to purchase its own ordinary shares.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 45,769,950 ordinary shares approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital as at 23 February 2017 and will set out the minimum and maximum prices which the Company may pay for any such purchase.
If approved, this authority will expire on 30 June 2018, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the AGM in 2018.
90 Jupiter Fund Management plc STRATEGIC REPORT governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION directors service agreements Each Executive Director has a written service agreement, which may be terminated by either party on not less than six months notice in writing.
non-executive directors letters of aPPointment The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are issued for an initial period of three years, which may be renewed for further terms as appropriate.
All appointments are subject to a review by the Nomination Committee upon the third anniversary and on extension a further review is undertaken at the sixth anniversary at which the Boards succession plans and the need to refresh the Boards skills and experiences are carefully considered.
The role and responsibilities of each Director are clearly set out and include the duties of a Director provided in the Act.
It is made clear that these duties do not include any management function but an indication that the Director is expected to support and challenge management and help in the development of the Groups strategy.
Three months notice in writing is required to be served by either party to terminate the appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Meeting.
comPensation for loss of office With reference to Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 paragraph 13 2 k, there are no agreements in place between the Company and any director or employee for loss of office in the event of a takeover.
Political donations The Group made no political donations or contributions during the year 2015: nil.
events after the rePorting Period On 23 February 2017, the Board reviewed and approved a plan to align the pricing of the Groups unit trust range with that of its SICAV range through the introduction of single pricing for buying and selling fund units.
On implementation of this plan, the Group will cease to earn box profits.
In addition, the Group intends to bear the costs of research for all products through its own income statement, with no change in the management fee.
These costs were previously borne directly by the funds.
An estimation of the financial impact of this decision, which is expected to come into force from the start of 2018, can be found in the Chief Executives review within the Strategic report.
annual general meeting The AGM will take place on 17 May 2017.
All shareholders are invited to attend and will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
The Notice of the AGM will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and the details of the resolutions to be proposed will be set out in that Notice.
This document will be available on the Companys website at www.
By order of the Board adrian creedy Company Secretary 23 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 directors resPonsibility and comPliance statements statements relating to the PreParation the directors resPonsibility for of the financial statements accounting records The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors have examined the accounting records kept in the Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance business and have determined that they are sufficient to show and with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and Company Financial Statements in accordance with International the Directors Remuneration report comply with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of Union EU, and related IFRS IC interpretations and with the the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act applicable to assets of the Company and Group and for taking reasonable steps companies reporting under IFRS.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the directors review of the financial the directors resPonsibility for the statements safekeePing of assets The Directors undertook a detailed review of the Financial Statements The Directors have examined the steps in place for ensuring the in January and February 2017.
Following this examination, the Board prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The was satisfied that the Financial Statements for 2016 give a true and procedure is examined and tested on a regular basis.
The Board is fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and satisfied it is understood and is operated well, and accordingly that of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Before approving the assets of the Company are safeguarded and protected from the Financial Statements, the Board satisfied itself that in preparing fraud and other irregularities.
the statements: the directors resPonsibility for information l suitable accounting policies had been selected and consistently applied: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom l the judgements and accounting estimates that have been made governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements were reasonable, necessary and prudent: and may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
l where applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been adopted they have been followed and that there were no statement of directors resPonsibilities material departures.
Each of the Directors whose names and functions are listed The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken in the Directors profiles set out in the Governance section confirms as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the that, to the best of his or her knowledge: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys l the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in position and performance, business model and strategy.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit the directors review of going concern of the Group: and The Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern l the Directors Report contained in the Annual Report and basis, the Directors having determined that the Company is likely to Accounts includes a fair review of the development and continue in business for at least 12 months from the date of this report.
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the directors review of current Position, that it faces.
ProsPects and PrinciPal risks In accordance with Section 418 of the Act, the Directors report Supported by the Audit and Risk Committee, the Directors have includes a statement, in the case of each Director in office at the completed a robust review and assessment of the principal risks in date the Directors report is approved, that: the business making use of the Enterprise Risk Framework which is now functioning in all areas of the Company.
The framework a s o far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit ensures that the relevant risks are identified and managed and that information as defined in section 418 3 of the Act of which the information is shared at an appropriate level.
Full details of these Companys auditors are unaware: and risks are provided in the Risks to our Strategy pages of the b h e she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as Strategic report.
The Board subjected the Enterprise Risk Framework a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant to a detailed review in May.
The Directors found it was an effective audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors mechanism through which the principal risks and the Companys risk are aware of that information.
appetite and tolerances could be tested and challenged.
On behalf of the Board charlotte Jones Chief Financial Officer 23 February 2017 92 Jupiter Fund Management plc
