Corporate governance Report of the Audit Committee Role and activities We met three times as a Committee during the year.
The Chief Financial Officer and senior representatives of the financial management team also attend meetings asdo representatives of the external auditor and the internal auditor.
The Committee also meets privately with the external auditor atleast once per year.
Keymatters covered within the Committees remit include reviewof: the independence, objectivity and effectiveness ofthe external auditor: the remuneration and proposed reappointment As the Audit Committee, ofthe external auditor: weassist the Board in its the plans for and outcome of the preparation and review of the Groups half year results andaudit oversight and monitoring of ofthe full year accounts including presentations financial reporting, internal from both management and theexternal auditor: control and risk management.
the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating Andrew Griffith to the Companys financial performance: Chairman, Audit Committee the Groups accounting policies, significant judgements and estimates: the Groups system of riskmanagement: We review those areas under our oversight of Group tax activities: remitwith management, internal the Groups material legal matters: andexternal auditors, as appropriate.
key internal policies including data protection, This report summarises our membership anti-bribery and related policies and whistleblowing arrangements: and activities during 2016. the continued development of the Groups internal Membership audit function, which reports directly tothe The Committee comprises three Independent Committee, and establishing control and risk Non-executive Directors, Gwyn Burr, DiegoOliva management procedures: andmyself Andrew Griffith as itsChairman.
All our the disclosures regarding risk, going concern members have relevant sector competence to fulfil andthe viability statement: and their roles.
Through my external position as CFO ofaFTSE 100 Company, I have both current and whether this Annual Report taken as awhole relevant financial experience.
provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects and whether it provides the necessary information to assess the Groups performance, business model and Further biographic details strategy, the ultimate decision on whichis taken are set out on by the Board.
pages 42 to 43 Prior to approval of the Annual Report, theCommittee, and all other Board members, receive apaper detailing those steps taken by management to ensure thereport meets the fair, balanced and understandable requirement.
com 51 Report of the Audit Committee continued Key matters considered at each main meetingof the AuditCommittee during the year included: 2016 February Analysis of 2015 full year results.
Review of 2015 full year results by the July external auditor.
Review of the Groups Annual Report for Analysis of 2016 half year results.
2015 and recommendation to the Board.
Review of half year results by the external Assessment of performance and effectiveness auditor.
of 2015 audit against the audit plan.
Review of 2016 half year results announcement and recommendation to the Board.
November Discussion and examination of 2016 audit Consideration of hedging and taxation matters.
plan with the external auditor.
Review and approval of 2017 internal audit plan.
Assessment of risk management including inrelation to Brexit.
Presentation and discussion on informationsecurity.
Interim update on the external audit including independence of the external auditor.
Plans for future external audit partner rotation.
At every main meeting,  reviews: Report of the CFO.
Report of the external auditor.
Minutes and actions from previous meetings.
Review of risk management and internal controls.
We also receive drafts of the Annual Report and financial Significant issues statements in sufficient time ahead of signing, to Prior to each meeting of the Audit Committee enable us to challenge the narrative and disclosures atwhich they are to be considered, management where required.
produces apaper providing details of any significant accounting, tax, compliance and legal matters.
The Committee also met privately with the external Members ofmanagement are also invited to attend auditor prior to its recommendation to the Board on these meetings where further guidance is required.
approval of this Annual Report.
TheGroups critical accounting judgements, are included within Note 40 to the financial statements.
Therisks the Audit Committee considers to be significant for the 2016 Annual Report are disclosed onthe following page.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 52 Corporate governance Significant issues the Committee has considered How the issue was addressed Business combinations Valuations of the acquired intangible assets of La Nevera Roja, PizzaBo There were a number of changes to the hellofood Italyand hellofood Mexico were performed by external valuation Group structure during the year, which experts.
Management determined this was appropriate due to the size included several acquisitions.
As detailed andcomplexity of these acquisitions.
in Note 31, the total cash consideration Due to the SkipTheDishes acquisition only completing in December 2016, the paid during the year was 159.7 million, valuation of the acquired intangible assets has been determined by management which resulted in an increase in the on a provisional basis.
External valuation experts will be engaged to provide Groups goodwill 181.2 million and finalised values in 2017. acquired intangible assets 26.3million.
Valuation and accounting papers prepared by management and external valuation experts were reviewed and considered appropriate by the Audit Committee.
To confirm that the valuations and accounting treatments adopted are appropriate, this included consideration of the following: cash flows and discount rates used in the business valuations: models and key inputs used in the intangible assets valuations including expected useful lives: fai r value adjustments made by management to arrive at the fair values ofthe assets and liabilities acquired: and the appr oach taken to identify acquired intangible assets.
Potential impairment of goodwill Impairment reviews have been performed by management on the Groups andintangible assets cash-generating units CGUs to which goodwill and other intangible assets At December 2016, the Group have been allocated.
The cash flow forecasts used were based on the budgets hadgoodwill balances totalling approved by the Board together with assumed growth rates thereafter.
The 725.2million and other intangible key assumptions around future growth rates and discount rates used were assets totalling 103.4 million.
reviewed and considered by the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Committee reviewed managements sensitivity analyses regarding these assumptions.
Please refer to Note 13 of the financial statements for further information.
Global tax environment The Committee reviewed the Groups approach to taxation.
Just Eat aims to responsibly manage all Management continually monitor the status of tax risks and relevant taxes and tax risks that arise across the legislative changes and update the Committee at the half and full year.
Group, in order to provide a competitive, responsible and sustainable outcome Taxation issues were discussed with senior management and a report prepared by Group Tax outlining key tax risks and relevant legislative changes in the interests of all stakeholders.
Just Eat aims to pay the right amount was reviewed.
of tax, in the right place at the right The tax positions and key judgements made within the Group were reviewed time by complying with all relevant and challenged by the Committee to ensure that the Groups effective tax taxlegislation in all Group entities.
rate, tax provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities However, given the geographical spread were appropriate.
of the Groups operations and the varied, The Committee considered the Groups enhanced disclosures recognising increasingly complex nature of local that the Financial Reporting Council has been undertaking a thematic review and global tax rules e. g. OECDs BEPS in this area.
Actions, EU Commission reforms, State The Committee were satisfied with the Groups approach to tax, the amounts Aid investigations, there is a greater reported and that Group tax issues were being efficiently monitored and uncertainty around the interpretation dealt with appropriately.
They note that changes in the global tax landscape of such tax law and we recognise mean that the Group must continue to work on its ability to respond quickly thereis an increased risk and level of to the enhanced global reporting requirements over the next few years.
uncertainty around judgements made by management in the reporting of tax in the ordinary course of business, which may be subject to final decisions taken by various tax authorities.
com 53 Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal controls and risk management environment The Board is ultimately responsible for the operation of an effective system of internal control and risk management appropriate to the business.
A review of the Groups principal risks and how it manages them is presented on pages 20 to 23.
The Company has complied with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, as applicable, throughout the period and up to the date on which these financial statements were approved.
Day-to-day operating and financial responsibility rests with senior management and performance is closely monitored on a monthly basis.
Internal control environment The following key elements comprise an appropriate organisational structure with clear lines ofresponsibility: the internal control environment which has been designed to identify, evaluate a comprehensive annual strategic and business planning process: and manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the Group in seeking to achieve its business objectives and systems of control procedures and delegated authorities which operate ensure accurate and timely reporting within defined guidelines and approval limits for capital and operating of financial data for the Company and expenditure and other key business transactions and decisions: the Group: a robust financial control, budgeting and rolling forecast system, which includes regular monitoring, variance analysis, key performance indicator reviews and risk and opportunity assessments at Board level: procedures by which the Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared, which are monitored and maintained through the use of internal control frameworks addressing key financial reporting risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards: an experienced and commercially focused legal function that supports the Groups operational and technical functions: established policies and procedures setting out expected standards of integrity and ethical standards which reinforce the need for all employees to adhere to all legal and regulatory requirements: and an experienced and qualified finance function which regularly assesses the possible financial impact of the risks facing the Group.
Internal audit plan The Head of Internal Audit provides updates to the The Committee agreed the internal audit plan to be Committee at each meeting summarising the internal undertaken prior to the commencement of the year.
audit findings and the progress made against agreed Ateach Committee meeting, the progress of the actions from previous audits.
Detailed updates on specific internal audit plan has been reviewed to ensure audits are provided at the request of the Committee.
thatitis in line with the Committees expectations.
Theplan was approved to ensure that there was How we manage risk appropriate coverage of the internal control environment, The Company has a robust risk management process that strategic priorities and key risks identified by the Board.
follows a sequence of risk identification, assessment of probability and impact, and assigns an owner to During the year, the audit plan was amended so that manage mitigation activities.
A register is kept of all additional areas were added to the plan based on the corporate risks and is monitored by senior management changes that gave rise to increased levels of risk.
and reported to the Audit Committee.
Throughout the These changes to the previously agreed audit plan period of review, the risk register and the methodology were approved by the Committee.
applied is the subject of continuous review by senior management and is updated to reflect new and developing areas which might impact business strategy.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54 Corporate governance Deloitte was appointed as the Groups auditor in 2009 The Audit Committee actively reviews the risk register and the most recent partner rotation took place in 2013. and assesses the actions being taken by senior The Committee confirms compliance with the provisions management to monitor and mitigate the risks.
of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Thoserisks which are considered to be the principal Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive risks of the Group are presented on pages 20 to 23.
"Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the UK Competition and Review of effectiveness Markets Authority ""CMA""."
The Group will put the The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews external audit out to tender to meet these requirements.
the effectiveness of the internal control systems and A tender is not currently proposed for the coming the risk management processes on an ongoing basis.
financial year as it continues to be a period of significant This process was in place throughout the year and growth inwhich the Company benefits from continuity.
post-year end to include the date of approval of the TheAudit Committee will keep this under review, in Annual Report.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee light of ongoing consultations by theCMA and the receives a paper from management detailing any Financial Reporting Council.
whistleblowing activity, any fraud identified and any other issue deemed to be significant.
An internal audit On behalf of the Audit Committee update is also presented, detailing the scope of work performed and findings, along with implementation ofany previous recommendations.
The Committee hasnot identified, nor been advised of, any failings orweaknesses that it has determined to be significant.
Andrew Griffith Independence and performance of the auditor Chairman, Audit Committee The Audit Committee has set a policy which is intended 6 March 2017 to maintain the independence and integrity of the Companys auditor when acting as auditor ofthe Groups accounts.
The policy governs the provision ofaudit, audit-related assurance and non-audit services provided by the auditor and, insummary, requires approval by the Committee forall projects Assessing the performance and effectiveness with an expected cost in excess of50,000.
oftheexternal audit The Audit Committee has assessed the performance During the year, the audit-related assurance services and effectiveness of the 2016 external audit process provided by the auditor to the Group mainly comprised in the past year.
the review of the half year results.
Other services performed by the auditor in 2016 related mainly totaxcompliance and advisory services.
Process The fees paid for the non-audit services during the Primarily through dialogue with the senior members yearrepresented 25 per cent of the fees paid for the of the finance and company secretarial teams.
statutory audit and audit-related assurance services Follow-up together.
Further details of these amounts are included in Note 8 of the financial statements.
A detailed follow-up was performed where additional feedback was sought from senior managers around the The Company complies with applicable rules in business not limited to the finance team through the relation to non-audit fees to the auditor.
The external auditor is not permitted to provide internal auditor services to the Group.
PwC has continued to Results and appointment be the co-sponsor for our internal audit work.
The initial results of the assessment were discussed with Before any former employee of the external or internal theGroup finance team, before being presented to the auditteam may be employed bythe Group, careful Committee, to inform our recommendation to the Board forthe annual reappointment of the external auditor.
consideration must be given as to whether the independence of the auditor willbe adversely affected, Objectivity and independence and approval of the AuditCommittee is required.
Thisparticular circumstance has not arisen in the The Committee believes that the Groups procedures pastyear.
Theauditor is required regularly to report as summarised above safeguard the objectivity and onandconfirm its independence in its role.
