Report of the Nomination Committee Appointments The appointment of our most recently recruited Independent Non-executive Director, Roisin Donnelly, and the appointment of our new Chief Financial Officer, Paul Harrison, to replace Mike Wroe when he stepped down from the Board, followed formal, rigorous and transparent recruitment processes.
They were undertaken with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership and Redgrave Partners, respectively, both leading external recruitment firms.
Neither of these firms have any other connection with the Company.
The process followed issummarised below: Selection process for theappointment The Nomination Committee ofnewBoardmembers ensures that the balance of skills Selection of recruitment consultants and experience of the Board is Appropriate external executive search consultants kept under review.
were selected suitable for the role.
Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc For the NED role this was The Zygos Partnership Chairman, Nomination Committee andfor the CFO role this was RedgravePartners.
Candidate specification We also assist the Board in determining the succession Specification for candidates determined and agreed after assessing the skills and character profile sought planning for the Board and to fit with the current balance, membership and Seniormanagement.
This report dynamic of the Board.
summarises our membership andactivities during 2016.
Potential candidates As in prior years, the Committee continued to seek Longlist of candidates meeting the specification diversity, including with regard to gender, as part isidentified from a specific search as well as the ofthe overall selection of the best candidates search firms own database.
This would include candidates from a variety ofbackgrounds and be gender neutral.
Membership The Nomination Committee comprises four Independent Non-executive Directors, Gwyn Burr, Roisin Donnelly, Andrew Griffith and Diego Oliva Interviews andselection andmyself, JohnHughes, as Chairman.
Shortlist of candidates is then selected by the Nomination Committee and interviewed.
Role and activities We met four times as a Committee during the year, which we considered sufficient to discharge our duties efficiently as a Committee.
The Committee is responsible Recommendations and confirmation ofappointment for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors.
Italsoreviews the One or two candidates recommended to the Board bythe Nomination Committee.
composition and structure oftheBoardand makes recommendations to theBoard on retirements and Candidates meet with other Directors on the Board appointments ofadditional and replacement Directors, as appropriate prior to Board approval for the including succession planning.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 56 Corporate governance Key matters considered at each main meetingof the NominationCommittee during the year included: 2016 April Board succession planning.
June Update on recruitment of Review of proposed nomination of Paul Harrison Non-executive Director.
as CFO after Mike Wroe stepped down.
Update on recruitment of Non-executive Director.
October December Agreement to recommend the appointment of Roisin Donnelly as an Independent Discussion of potential for appointment of an Non-executive Director.
additional Non-executive Director in the future.
Agreement to proceed with an internally Following review of their performance, facilitated Board evaluation in the recommendation to reappoint each Director comingyear.
At every main meeting,  reviews: Minutes and actions from previous meetings.
Diversity This review of the performance of the Non-executive One of the pivotal considerations on any appointment to Directors included an assessment of their: the Board relates to diversity.
TheBoards policy isto attendance at meetings: and continue to seek diversity, including with regardto gender, as part of the overall selection ofthebest candidates ability to devote sufficient time to the Company for Non-executive Director roles.
ofPaul Harrison was made within the Groups policies All the Directors being proposed for reappointment for the appointment of employees as will anyfuture attended all meetings they were scheduled to attend appointments of Executive Directors.
unless unavoidably prevented from doing so.
They alldevote ample time to their duties.
The evaluation Reappointment also confirmed that the roles of the Non-executive In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each Directors in other companies in no way impede their Director retires at the AGM of the Company and, if roles with the Company.
Indeed, each demonstrates decided appropriate by the Board, may be proposed for great enthusiasm as well as commitment to their roles.
In reaching its decision, the Board acts on the advice of the Nomination Committee.
Following evaluation of their performance I, as Chairman, confirm that the performance of each ofthe Non-executive Directors being proposed forreappointment continues to be effective anddemonstrates commitment to their duties.
TheBoard considers that they each provide distinct and valuable input to the overall operation and function of the Board.
com 57 Report of the Nomination Committee continued Board evaluation Performance reviews As reported in last years annual report, during 2016 an externally facilitated evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its three standing Committees was completed by Glowinkowski International organisational leadership performance consultancy, which does not have any other connection with the Company.
The process undertaken issummarised below along with the conclusions, actions taken and follow-up internally facilitated evaluation already underway this year.
Comprehensive questionnaire All Directors completed a detailed bespoke questionnaire, focused on the following areas: Strategy Decision making Performance Sustainability Communications Governance People Full Board discussion Steve Glowinkowski of Glowinkowski International met Having considered these results, the Board agreed to with the Board in a review and discussion of the results follow up with specific actions as part of the ongoing of the evaluation, both in terms of analysis of the development of its governance processes.
resulting metrics and the narrative answers.
Conclusions and actions Conclusions were within two main areas, summarised below with key actions taken: Strategic Key matters of long-term strategic focus presented at most Board meetings.
priorities Board input sought and taken into account by management.
People Board and Remuneration Committee oversaw development of both senior management agenda and employees across the Group more generally.
Senior team had Board-level exposure both within and outside meetings.
New hires able to develop their roles in taking the Company forward.
This year the Board is undertaking an internally facilitated evaluation, following up on areas from last year and ofparticular interest this year.
Governance meetings In line with the Code, during the past year separate meetings took place amongst: the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman the Non-executive Directors only although taking withoutthe Executive Directors present to assess account of the views of the Executive Directors to theperformance of the Executive Directors discuss the performance of the Chairman including onanongoingbasis: and reviewof: the time he dedicates to the Companys business: and his contributions, both atand outside formal meetings.
The Non-executive Directors concluded that the Chairman is well able to, and indeed does, devote ample time and attention to the Companys affairs and that his broad past and current experience provide considerable benefit to his role in the Group.
They also confirmed that his external roles had no negative impact on the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 58 Corporate governance Succession planning The Committee has already started discussions regarding the ongoing evolution of the Board, including consideration of the recruitment ofan additional Independent Non-executive Director.
The Committee also reviews matters in relation to thesenior management team, considering succession planning and new appointments as theyarise.
We have commenced the search for a new CEO following David Buttress notification that he would bestepping down from that role.
David will continuing on the Board as a Non-executive Director.
I will report to you again next year on the results of these and other activities we plan to carry out during 2017.
Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc Chairman 6 March 2017 Board induction case study Overall I have had an excellent induction which helps me to understand the business and organisation.
Roisin Donnelly Non-executive Director 4 Meetings with Attended company events Specific activities to help Future plans understand the business The Executive team.
The British Takeaway Meetings with various from a restaurant owner and Awards and met restaurant Group managers as they Consumer point of view The UK Managing Director owners from around the visit the UK.
Spent an evening listening Sales visits to restaurants.
to consumers calling into Creative and media A technology morning the contact centre.
where the CEO and CPTO presented to an audience Various advisers including of analysts and media.
