Corporate governance report Corporate governance introduction Corporate governance has always been important to us.
Our commitments to high standards ofcorporate governance and business It provides the structure within which theentrepreneurial drive in the Group can integrity enable us to continue to set thrive.
It enables the continued growth of the tone as well as the direction of the the Group to be achieved on an ongoing basis in an environment that is both management of the Group.
It ensures that shareholder value and stakeholder interests Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc can be maximised in the long term.
Chairman In my report last year, I noted that we would become fully compliant with all ofthe provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Non-executive Director appointment Paul and Roisins Code 2014 the Code during the year.
We were also delighted to welcome backgrounds are Thiswas achieved on 1 March 2016.
RoisinDonnelly as an additional included in their Independent Non-executive Director biographies on This is an example of the importance the page 43 inOctober.
Roisins invaluable skillset Group places onthis area.
Our commitment andexperience have already enhanced remains fundamental to how Just Eat operates.
Our ethos of market leadership is askey Paul and Roisins toour corporate governance as it is to our Acquisitions recruitment and business success.
We will continue to evolve induction processes We reviewed, considered and approved are included in the and develop our governance arrangements important acquisitions by the Group in Report of the toensure they remain appropriate for our Spain, Italy, Mexico, Brazil, the UK and Nomination ambitions for the business.
Most recently, on SkipTheDishes Committee embrace the ongoing changes to theCode commencing and the proposed acquisition of as these are introduced over thecoming onpage56 hungryhouse, thisincluded full years.
This will ensure that our governance presentations to the Board intheir early continues to be appropriate for the future stages, updates as they progressed, aswell as the present.
aswell as a specific Board meetings fortheir final approval.
In 2016, there were a number of key corporate governance considerations in Just Eat: Strategic consideration We received specific presentations from CFO appointment management throughout the year on other Paul Harrison was appointed CFO in important strategic matters including September following Mike Wroes decision technology, marketing, people and new to step down from the Board.
During his developments in the Group.
eight years with Just Eat, Mikemade an important contribution tothe Group.
Building on this, Paul has already made a substantial contribution to the continued development of JustEat, drawing on hisown wide experience in other high growth andtechnology companies.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 40 Corporate governance These developments are part of our ongoing When two of our then Directors who had The UK Corporate work to achieve best practice incorporate been nominated by significant shareholders Governance Code governance.
Weview this as ajourney rather stepped down, the Group became fully 2014 can be accessed than adestination.
In the same way as JustEat compliant with this one remaining provision at www.
uk continues to develop as a business, so we of the Code.
will continue to evolve as a Board and to The UK Corporate Governance Code can be develop our governance arrangements.
Our commitments to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and Future development business integrity enable us to continue I look forward to reporting to you next year toset a positive tone for the direction of on how we continue to develop and further themanagement of the Group.
I believe this strengthen our corporate governance in line will remain an important foundation of the with our plans for the future development of Group as it continues to build shareholder the Group.
We view continuous improvement value over the long term.
as being important for us asa Board, just as it is for our business.
UK Code compliance On behalf of the Board This Corporate Governance Report, including the sections that follow, sets out how the Group has applied the main principles of good governance contained in the Code.
TheBoard considers that the Group moved to and continued with full compliance with the Code provisions thatapplied during the Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc year from the Board changes on 1 March 2016.
Chairman 6 March 2017 Until that time, the only provision of the Code with which the Group did not comply was Code provision B.
1.2 which recommends thatat least half the members of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Later in this Corporate Governance Report: Non-executive Directors determined by the 1.
An introduction to our Board is given in the biographies Board to be independent.
of our Directors on the next pages.
More detail on the role and activities of the Board starts on page 44.
Andrew Griffith, the Chairman of our Audit Committee, reports on its work commencing on page 51.
John Hughes reports, in his role as Chairman of the Committee, on our Nomination Committees activities commencing onpage 56.
Gwyn Burr reports on the remuneration of our Directors in her capacity as Chairman of our Remuneration Committee, commencing on page 60. www.
