JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 18 Strategic Report Key resources and relationships Our progressive retail distribution strategyis underpinned by our strong brand, outstanding support and service anddepth of relationships with a diverse range of corporate partners and  Customers In 2016 we have continued to develop Our predecessor companies have always new corporate partnerships to broaden identified and responded to the needs our distribution reach and to support our of our customers and we are committed corporate partners develop improved to ensuring that our business remains outcomes for their atand in-retirement customer-focussed.
Through our HUB business programmes provide the Group with we have achieved success, winning vital insights into our performance and mandates to deliver services to other life the strength of our service delivery.
Our insurance companies to provide regulated cultural philosophy is that customers advice, and guidance services together are at the heart of our business and we with access to Justs products and those focus on ensuring we provide a service sourced from the external market.
to our customers that feels effortless and provides them with what they Reinsurers need, both in practical and emotional These include the Groups key terms.
This has been evidenced through relationships with Hannover Ruck SE, research conducted by ORC that showed RGA Global Reinsurance Company Ltd, 96% of our customers were satisfied Pacific Life Re Ltd, RGA International or very satisfied that we were easy to Reinsurance Company DAC and SCOR understand when they spoke with us, Life Global Life UK Branch.
and 93% said we treated them like a valued customer.
We also have a very In addition to these, the Group maintains low risk appetite for breaches of our strong working relationships with other Treating Customers Fairly TCF policy.
high quality partners, including Achmea Reinsurance Company N. V. General Distribution partners Reinsurance AG London branch, Our DB sales are made via EBCs who Hannover Life Reassurance Bermuda Ltd, advise the pension schemes trustees on Nomura Reinsurance 5IC Ltd, Pacific Life the structuring of defined benefit pension Re Ltd and Partner Reinsurance Company schemes, and we have developed strong Ltd. Post-merger, the relationship with relationships in this area.
We distribute SCOR has recently been further our individual retail products through strengthened in respect of new GIfL a number of channels, including general business and the relationship with RGA and specialist financial intermediaries has been further strengthened in respect and emerging channels accessed via of new DB business.
our HUB business such as life insurance companies, banks, building societies, This diverse group of counterparties pension schemes and affinity partners.
ensures we have strong risk mitigation Our consistent record in achieving the and facilitates competitive pricing.
highest accolades in industry service awards demonstrates the strength and quality of our relationships with those to whom we provide services.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Our Group works with a wide range of leading international reinsurance firms Government Development We believe that an important part of our Developing our colleagues is central to role in the retirement income market is our overall business strategy and this to engage positively with government commitment to our colleagues is set out and regulators to encourage effective in our Learning and Development Policy.
competition and consumer protection Our development activities focus on the that results in achieving better customer organisational initiatives that have the outcomes.
We engage with ministers, biggest impact for customers, colleagues government officials, regulators and and the business.
other policy makers directly and through trade bodies.
As a leader in the markets Diversity we serve, we are well placed to share our We are committed to valuing diversity customer and market insights.
and promoting equality of opportunity for our Group colleagues.
We ensure Suppliers that they are selected and promoted The Group generally manages its own on the basis of merit and ability, customer-facing systems and processes, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, and uses professional partners to provide sexual orientation or disability.
This continues to allow aim to create and promote a safe and us to flex and adapt our services to meet healthy environment where diversity evolving customer demands.
is valued and colleagues have a sense of well-being.
We will not tolerate However, the Group outsources certain discrimination on any grounds, whether operational and administrative functions it be age, disability, sex, gender rewhere appropriate.
This includes the assignment, pregnancy, maternity, administration of customers regular race, sexual orientation, religion or pension payments for our DB business, belief, or marital civil partnership.
some sections of our Guaranteed Income for Life business and some lifetime Benefits mortgage books acquired from our We value the contribution our colleagues heritage Partnership business.
The make to the business, so in return we relationships with the suppliers of offer a wide range of policies and benefits these services are managed through designed to attract, develop and retain dedicated teams.
the best and most talented individuals.
Our colleagues Our approach to colleagues focusses on staff engagement, well-being, personal development and commitment to the highest level of performance, with a particular focus on reviewing our corporate working policies to enhance our colleagues daily working lives.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 20 Strategic Report Individuals Individuals Providing Retirement Income People who have built up defined contribution pension savings throughout their career and want a guaranteed income, flexible income or a combination in retirement Market value of DC pension savings 1 TRILLION
