Leadership Board composition Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Board Investment Manager Board Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Board of Directors The Board directs and supervises the affairs of the business, overseeing implementation of our strategy Charlotte Valeur 53 William McMorrow 69 and investment policy by the Non-Executive Chair Non-Executive Director Investment Manager Simon Radford 60 Mark McNicholas 51 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Investment Manager Board of Directors Kennedy Wilson Europe Mary Ricks 52 Real Estate Plc has granted Non-Executive Director and authority to the Investment Investment Manager Director Manager for the day-to-day management of the assets held or acquired by the Group Peter Collins 55 Andrew McNulty 39 Mark Hodgson 47 Investment Manager Director Investment Manager Director Investment Manager Director Independent Biographies Charlotte Valeur Date of appointment: 23 December 2013 Charlotte has more than 30 years of experience in financial markets 2003 and of the Global Governance Group in 2009.
Prior to this, and is the Managing Director of GFG Ltd, a governance Charlotte worked in London as a Director in Capital Markets at consultancy.
Warburg, BNP Paribas, Socit Gnrale and Commerzbank, having begun her career in Copenhagen with Nordea A S. Charlotte currently serves as a non-executive Director on the boards of certain listed companies including Blackstone GSO Loan Charlotte has technical knowledge of capital markets with Financing Ltd, JPMorgan Convertibles Income Fund Ltd, NTR Plc significant experience in international corporate finance.
Her and DW Catalyst Ltd. She is a member of The Institute of Directors non-executive board roles at a number of companies have provided and is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
her with an excellent understanding and experience of boardroom Charlotte was the founding partner of Brook Street Partners in dynamics and corporate governance.
62 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information William McMorrow Mary Ricks 1 2 Date of appointment: 24 January 2014 Date of appointment: 24 January 2014 23 January 2014 Bill has more than 40 years of combined experience in real Mary has more than 25 years of experience in international real estate and banking, and has been the Chairman and CEO of estate investment.
Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. and its predecessor since 1988.
Bill was instrumental in KWs expansion into real estate Mary is the President and CEO of Kennedy Wilson Europe, brokerage, property management and investment services and which she helped establish in 2011, and before this she headed launching KWs business in Europe in 2011.
KWs commercial investment group from 2002, having joined Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. in 1990.
In addition to his real estate experience, Bill has more than 17 years banking experience serving as Chair of the Credit In 2014, Mary won the PERE award for Industry Figure of the Policy Committee of Imperial Bancorp and holding various senior Year.
She is also a founding board member of the Richard S. positions at Fidelity Bank.
Bill currently sits on the Executive Ziman Center for Real Estate at the University of California, Los Board of the USC Lusk Center for Real Estate, in California, US.
Simon Radford Peter Collins Date of appointment: 24 January 2014 Date of appointment: 4 August 2016 Simon has more than 25 years experience of audit, corporate Peter has over 30 years of experience in the financial services and finance and corporate investigation.
investment industry and is the Chief Operating Officer of Kennedy Wilson Europe.
Peter is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered He has worked with a wide variety of boards and audit Accountants, having qualified with Arthur Andersen in Dublin committees and currently serves as a non-executive Director on and he holds a Bachelor of Law from Trinity College, Dublin.
the boards of four other alternative investment strategy funds, covering real estate, hedge, private equity and infrastructure Peter joined Kennedy Wilson Europe in June 2011 to lead sectors.
operations in Ireland, following Kennedy Wilsons acquisition of Bank of Ireland Real Estate Investment Management where Simon retired as CFO of Aztec Group Ltd in Jersey in March Peter had previously been Managing Director.
Prior to this, Peter 2016, having held the position since 2005, and prior to that he served as a Director of Bank of Ireland Private Banking and of was a senior partner of Deloitte in Jersey.
Between 2006 and Bank of Ireland Asset Management, respectively.
Before joining 2008, Simon served as Chairman of the Institute of Directors Bank of Ireland, Peter spent nine years in the corporate finance in Jersey and President of the Jersey Society of Chartered and industry, primarily focused on mergers and acquisition activity Certified Accountants.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of for Irish corporates.
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Andrew McNulty Date of appointment: 3 January 2014 Simon has a deep knowledge of auditing and associated Andrew has more than 15 years of experience in real estate regulatory issues.
His experience from his time at Deloitte, across brokerage and fund management industries and is a coupled with his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
allows him to provide substantial insight and oversight in relation to the Groups financial reporting and risk management Andrew is a Senior Director of the Investment Manager, having processes.
formerly been an Associate Director at Crestbridge from 2009, where he was responsible for developing the real estate funds Mark McNicholas business.
Andrew previously worked for JLL and CBRE, in the Date of appointment: 23 December 2013 UK, across property investment and leasing before becoming Mark has more than 20 years of experience in real estate finance.
a property fund manager at Schroders.
Andrew has extensive experience as a director on real estate client boards and Since 2012, Mark has been the principal of JLA Real Estate regulated Jersey vehicles holding real estate assets.
Finance Ltd, a debt advisory practice based in Jersey, having previously worked on BNP Paribas Real Estates debt advisory Mark Hodgson desk since 2010.
He also sits on the board of two LuxembourgDate of appointment: 11 November 2015 registered funds providing senior and mezzanine debt to the UK Mark is a Channel Islands fund director with over 25 years real estate market.
Mark is regulated by the Jersey Financial financial services experience and an extensive banking background.
His expertise covers a wide range of differing asset classes, including real estate, infrastructure, hedge and private equity.
Mark joined RBSs corporate real estate finance team in London in 1993 and became head of real estate finance at RBS Mark has been Managing Director at Carne Global Financial International, based in Jersey, in 1999, where he also sat on the Services, based in Jersey, since April 2014.
He moved to Jersey real estate finance board of RBS Corporate Banking.
in 2006 to head up HBSCs Commercial Centre, responsible for credit and lending within the jurisdiction, having previously spent Mark has significant real estate and debt experience gained over 20 years in a variety of senior roles with HSBC where he through a number of senior positions at leading global financial gained in depth knowledge of credit, financial markets and institutions, and is therefore able to contribute to the development complex lending structures.
In 2008, Mark joined Capita Fiduciary of the Groups strategy.
Group as Managing Director Offshore Registration and Managing Director of Capita Financial Administrations Jersey Ltd. Key Audit Committee Chair Notes: Nominations Committee Independent 1 Date of appointment to Board Management Engagement Committee 2 Date of appointment to Investment Manager 63 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Leadership continued Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc governance framework Sets strategy and policies Oversees implementation and Board execution by Investment Manager Provides risk oversight Provides oversight of governance and monitors best practice Manages shareholders interests Management Audit Nominations Engagement Committee Committee Committee Oversees financial reporting and monitors Recommends Board appointments Oversees performance of key service integrity Oversees succession planning providers, including Investment Manager Monitors risk management and internal Oversees Board and Committee Reviews contractual arrangements with controls composition service providers Evaluates the auditors: independence and Monitors skill mix on Board Recommends retention of service remuneration Responsible for Board effectiveness providers evaluation See Committee report See Committee report See Committee report on pages 70 to 73 on pages 67 to 68 on page 75 Responsible for implementation and execution of Group strategy Undertakes asset management of the Groups investments on a Investment Key Service day-to-day basis Manager Providers Prepares annual business plans Responsible for risk management of the Group Manages shareholder communications on behalf of the Board For more information go to page 66 Provides external audit services to KPMG the Group Kennedy Wilson Europe Investment Kennedy Wilson UK Advisors Kennedy Wilson Espaa Provides day-to-day administration Crestbridge Fund services Acts as secretary to the Board and Administrators committees KWE See the composition of the Investment Others Committee on page 24 Committee 64 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The Board and its responsibilities Board activities in 2016 In addition, the individual Directors also The Board has five Directors, all of The Board meets for scheduled Board meet routinely outside the formal Board whom are non-executive.
Together, meetings at least four times a year, meetings as part of each Directors the Board has overall responsibility for although in practice the number of contribution to the delivery of the setting the Groups strategic aims and formally scheduled meetings is often Groups strategy and review of maximising its success.
Due to the timing of strategy operations.
All Directors have access to by directing and supervising the affairs review meetings in April and December the advice and services of: the legal and of the business, overseeing the 2016, and the number of capital compliance team in the Investment Investment Managers implementation transactions undertaken in 2016, there Manager group, the Administrator and of our strategy and investment policy, were 11 scheduled Board meetings, the Company secretary, who collectively and delivering on the appropriate 13 committee meetings, two transactionhave responsibility for corporate interests of our shareholders and other specific committee meetings and three governance and compliance matters stakeholders.
The Board is also strategy and risk working group sessions at KWE.
responsible for enhancing the value of during the year.
the Company and ensuring our investors are protected.
Attendance of Directors at meetings Management Audit Nominations Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee Charlotte Valeur 11 11 7 7 4 4 2 2 William McMorrow 10 11 Mark McNicholas 11 11 7 7 4 4 2 2 Simon Radford 11 11 7 7 2 2 Mary Ricks 11 11 4 4 Footnote: The table above does not include the two transaction-specific committee meetings and the three strategy and risk working group sessions held during the year Regular matters reserved for consideration by the Board at these meetings included: Strategy and its implementation Strategic review and overview of annual business plans targets and achievements Overview of investment policy and compliance Target markets overview and assessment of macro-economic conditions affecting the Groups business Investor and analyst feedback Investment and asset management Review of key investments, target markets, asset propositions, challenges on key oversight assets, and asset management strategies covering leasing, disposals and capital expenditure projects Valuations Board property tours Financial reporting Review of quarterly, half year and annual results, going concern, dividend policy Remuneration paid to the Investment Manager Risk management Formal review of risk management and internal controls Ongoing monitoring of risks Governance Reports from the Boards committees Corporate governance matters including Board evaluation and UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Compliance with regulatory obligations and rules around public disclosure Approval of the sustainability policy and setting the sustainability objectives and targets Board apprenticeship Review of assessment projects undertaken in the year Third party service provider review Evaluation Board and committee evaluation Other material transactions Capital management transactions including share buyback and bond issues Appointment of principal advisors on transactions 65 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Leadership continued Board strategy review The Investment Manager performs for the Group.
The Investment The Board held a strategy session in As an externally managed investment Manager has full discretionary authority April 2016 in London.
The session vehicle, KWE has no executive directors to enter into transactions for and on focused on the proposed goals and or internal senior management that are behalf of the Company, subject to targets for 2016, covering the significant employees.
KWE is externally managed matters involving a conflict of interest asset management and capital by Kennedy Wilson through a Jersey which require the formal consent of the expenditure projects which were to be incorporated wholly-owned subsidiary, independent Directors.
undertaken during the year, and the KW Investment Management Ltd the effective balance sheet management Investment Manager, that acts as For a summary of the principal initiatives available to the Group.
The investment manager to the Group.
terms of the investment potential implications of a vote for Brexit management agreement go on the UK property market and the The Investment Manager is licensed and to page 152. natural risk-mitigant in the Groups regulated by the JFSC to act as the investments outside of the UK, Companys investment manager under In December 2016, the Management particularly Ireland, also dominated much the Financial Services Jersey Law 1998 Engagement Committee, on behalf of of the discussion.
and complies with the JFSCs Code of the Board, formally reviewed the Practice for Fund Services Business.
Investment Managers performance in The Board held a further strategyThe Investment Manager is also the 2016. orientated session in December 2016, Companys Alternative Investment Fund which focused on the asset-level Manager AIFM for the purposes of For further details of the review business plans for 2017, the Groups AIFMD and related regulations, as go to page 75. debt offerings and the share buyback adopted and implemented by the JFSC undertaken during the year.
This was and complies with the JFSCs Codes of Following the advice of the coupled with site visits to the Groups Practice for Alternative Investment Funds Management Engagement Committee, Spanish portfolio and presentations on and AIF Services Business.
the Board is of the opinion that it is in the progress achieved during 2016. the best interests of our shareholders as The Investment Manager is supported in the a whole to continue the appointment of Given the nature of the property performance of its services to the Group the Investment Manager under the business, and the longer timeframes by various other Kennedy Wilson entities terms of the investment management involved in the  Europe that act as investment advisors.
return cycles, and taking into account the macro environment changes, the Board Under the terms of the investment Other key service providers remains supportive of the Groups management agreement, the Investment Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd investment strategy and vision: to Manager is responsible for the risk and Jersey provides administration remain focused on asset management, portfolio management of the Groups services to the Company in its capacity capital recycling and the targeted assets.
The Board has granted authority as Administrator and Company deployment of capital through its capex to the Investment Manager for the secretary.
and acquisition programmes, the day-to-day management of the Groups implementation of a conservative investments and there is a prescribed KPMG acts as external auditor to the financial policy, and effective liquidity schedule of investment and management Company.
services that the Investment Manager Viewing our key assets To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property tours conducted by the relevant asset management teams.
In 2016, the Board undertook tours of the newly refurbished property at 111 Buckingham Palace Road, London SW1, and the Spanish portfolio of assets in Madrid, including the Puerta del Sol building and the La Moreleja Green shopping centre.
Governance framework KWEs governance framework, including a description of the committees established by the Board, is summarised on the preceeding page.
66 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
