Resources and relationships KW Investment Management estate and financial markets.
This structure allows us Our relationship with Ltd is our Investment The IC provides the to benefit from Kennedy Kennedy Wilson Manager.
It is wholly-owned Investment Manager with Wilsons international and controlled by Kennedy valuable industry insight, as expertise, reputation, Wilson.
well as access to KWs global resources and relationships.
It The Kennedy Wilson Europe evaluates industry trends and Investment Committee IC augments the services of the comprises senior members of Investment Manager and its the KW team, with expertise advisors.
in European and global real The Kennedy Wilson Europe Investment Committee William McMorrow Mary Ricks Fiona DSilva Gautam Doshi Chairman & CEO President & CEO Head of Origination Senior Director Kennedy Wilson Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Europe Peter Collins Matt Windisch Peter Hewetson Chief Operating Officer Executive Vice President Head of UK Direct Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Real Estate Kennedy Wilson Europe Our three investment advisors KW Investment Management Ltd delegates some of its responsibilities and functions to its three investment advisors, that are also Kennedy Wilson group companies.
The investment advisors are: Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson UK Kennedy Wilson Espaa Provides investment-related Provides investment-related Provides investment-related services, including advisory services inthe UK and Italy.
and deal sourcing, in Ireland.
The investment advisors use a rigorous investment process when advising the Investment Manager.
They identify opportunities that fit KWEs investment policy and conduct appropriate due diligence.
The Investment Manager has sole discretion to make investment decisions.
24 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information KWs track record in Europe This has increased from KWs strong team culture Supported by and its reputation as a reliable around 50 people at the time ensures that the teams broad KWs team culture counterparty that closes deals of the IPO in February 2014 and complementary skill sets in equity, debt and real estate quickly strengthens the to over 90 at the year end, all work towards delivering Investment Managers with senior local managers total shareholder return sourcing ability and puts representing each part of the for KWE.
KWE in a strong position to business.
These professionals capitalise on opportunities further strengthen KWs local This enables the KW team as appropriate.
contacts with agents, brokers, to capitalise on numerous joint venture partners, private investment opportunities As KWEs portfolio has equity participants and across all facets of the real grown, we have benefited vendors.
from KW expanding its European management and advisory team.
Orion Business Park, Ipswich, UK Acquired November 2016 203,370 sq ft industrial park 25 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Theta House, Camberley, UK Artemis portfolio Acquired March 2014 50,700 sq ft suburban office New reception entrance Refurbished reception area New refurbished floor 2.
A ctive asset & portfolio Unlocking value management We undertook a full refurbishment at Theta House of vacant areas and common parts, 1.
We Bottom up Active asset 1.
B ottom up investment strategy investment &portfolio successfully let the entire ground We acquired Theta House in March strategy management floor to Surrey & Borders NHS Trust 2014, as part of the Artemis portfolio.
on a 14-year lease with a seven-year The property was fully occupied by break.
We also completed a re-gear two tenants but we knew at Unlocking with Amer Sport ahead of its lease acquisition that the main tenant, value expiry in October 2017.
We achieved occupying 66% of the area, would both a ten-year lease extension with vacate on lease expiry in February a five-year break, and an expansion 2016.
Having underwritten this lease into additional space on the event, we could price the acquisition 4.
Rigorous Asset to reflect the leasing risk and make capital repositioning plans to execute on what we saw as management Total refurbishment spend an attractive asset management opportunity.
1.9m Theta House is well located close to Junction 4 of the M3, in the heart of Stabilised yield on cost the Blackwater Valley office market.
10.5% 26 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
