Corporate governance overview Board of Directors Skills and experience: Other appointments: Simon has significant business operations and management Chairman of Gulf Marine experience gained through a diverse range of industries.
He Services PLC and Marex served as chief operating officer of Jardine Fleming Limited, Spectron Group Limited.
He deputy managing director of Cathay Pacific Airways and chief was also a trustee and treasurer executive of The London Metal Exchange.
Simon was also a of Macmillan Cancer Support non-executive director and chairman of Panmure Gordon & until 31 December 2016.
Co plc, and a non-executive director of PZ Cussons plc, Morgan N R H Advanced Materials PLC, Coats plc and Carlton Commodities Simon Heale Capital Corporate Member Limited.
In his role as Chairman he Non-executive Chairman encourages open andconstructive debate and promotes effective Appointed to the Board: 2007 decision making.
Skills and experience: Oleg joined the Group in 2001 and was appointed Chief Executivein 2007, having been Finance Director since 2005.
His business acumen and operational management provide a valuable contribution to the successful delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
He was formerly chairman of the board of directors of Kazprombank JSC.
Oleg Novachuk Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: 2005 Skills and experience: Andrew joined the Company in 2006 where he has held a number of senior positions, including Group Financial Controller and Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
He was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2013 and brings significant strategic and operational financial oversight.
Andrew is a chartered accountant who began his career at Deloitte in London, where he provided audit and transaction services to a number of UK listed companies.
Prior to joining the Company, Andrew worked in corporate development Andrew Southam atGlaxoSmithKline plc.
Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board: 2014 Skills and experience: Other appointments: Michael gained extensive experience working with companies Non-executive director of inthemining, oil and gas industries during his 38 year career Seven Energy International withErnst &Young.
He played a key role in establishing Limited, Lenta Ltd and Gem Ernst&Youngs practice in Kazakhstan and advised a number Diamonds Limited.
He is also a ofmajor CIS companies on transactions.
He retired as senior trustee and treasurer of Action partner of Ernst & Youngs transaction advisory practice for mining Aid International, a trustee of st and metals and as an elected member of its global advisory council 21 Century Legacy and The in 2012.
In his role as Senior Independent Director, Michael acts Children of Sri Lanka Trust, Michael Lynch-Bell as a point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders and and a member of the United Non-executive Director serves as anintermediary for the other non-executive Directors.
Nations Expert Group on Resources Classification.
and Senior Independent A R N Director Appointed to the Board: 2013 66 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Committee memberships: A Audit Committee H Health, Safety and Environment Committee R Remuneration Committee O Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee N Nomination Committee Chair Skills and experience: Other appointments: A geophysicist by training, Lynda had over 30 years natural Chair of the trustees of the resources experience with Shell.
During this time, she held a British Safety Council, a nonnumber of senior exploration and operational roles, including executive director of DONG director of UK Exploration and New Business Development, Energy A S and the Central exploration director of Petroleum Development Oman and Europe Oil Company Limited, technical vice president for Shell International.
Lyndas technical a director of Calyx Consulting and operational experience of the extractives industry and her Ltd and a member of the clear commitment to health and safety provide valuable insight supervisory board of SBM Lynda Armstrong OBE andguidance to the Group.
Offshore N. V. Non-executive Director R N H O Appointed to the Board: 2013 Skills and experience: Vladimir joined the Group in 1995.
He was appointed Chairman of the Company in 2005 prior to its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Vladimir stepped down as Chairman in 2013 but remains on the Board as a non-executive Director.
With extensive knowledge of the mining industry, a thorough working knowledge of the CIS and an exemplary understanding of the political and regulatory environment in Kazakhstan, Vladimir brings valuable Kazakh mining experience and continues to perform a vital role Vladimir Kim inassisting and supporting the Company in its dealings with the Non-executive Director Government and local authorities in Kazakhstan.
Appointed to the Board: 2005 Skills and experience: Other appointments: John is a senior mining executive with more than 23 years Executive chairman of Mantos experience in the metals and mining sector mostly acquired Copper and chief executive withthe Anglo American group where he was CEO of Zinc officer of mining at Audley from2006 to 2009 and CEO of Copper from 2009 to 2013.
Johnbrings extensive international operating experience and a A H O wealth of health and safety knowledge to the Group gained in Africa, SouthAmerica, North America and Europe.
John MacKenzie Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2015 Skills and experience: Other appointments: During his 29 years at Shell, Charles gained extensive experience in Non-executive director both operational management and major project delivery.
he held a number of senior global executive positions, culminating in H A R O his appointment as executive vice president responsible for Russia and the CIS, including oversight of Shells activities in Kazakhstan, chairman of Shell Russia and chairman of the board of directors for the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company.
He was previously a non-executive director of Taipan Resources Inc. Charles Charles Watson expertise in major project delivery and tenacity in the continued Non-executive Director improvement in health and safety performance are of significant Appointed to the Board: 2011 importance to the Group.
