Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Letter from the chair of the Nominations Committee Board evaluation I am pleased to report that the recent external evaluation concluded that the Nominations Committee operated well during 2016, and provided valuable input to the Board on the areas set out in its terms of reference.
Overall, the evaluation process concluded that the Board and all its committees operate to high performance standards, working well and effectively together.
For more information on the Board evaluation process and its outcomes go to page 69.
Board and committee composition The composition of the Board and its committees, in its broadest sense, was a topic referenced in the externally Mark McNicholas facilitated Board evaluation carried out for the year under review.
Nominations Committee Chair As part of the formal Board evaluation process, and more informally at other Board events, we have discussed the balance Committee members and attendance of skills, knowledge and experience that each Director brings to the Board, with reference to the likely profile of the Groups Attendance at business and strategy, as well as our ability to cope with Member meetings in 2016 unexpected events or opportunities.
The bespoke training and Mark McNicholas 4 4 information briefings tailored to the Groups asset classes and Charlotte Valeur 4 4 target markets were viewed as enhancing the existing skill-set of the Board members.
We concluded that the current mix of Mary Ricks 4 4 Directors on the Board, both on an individual and collective basis, brings a range of expertise from different business sectors to Board deliberations which helps to ensure Dear Shareholder constructive and challenging debate around the boardroom Welcome to the report on the key activities of the Nominations table.
Committee over the past year.
At one of our meetings in 2016, we specifically discussed the Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged composition of the Boards committees, and we continue to be The principal focus of the Nominations Committee in 2016 was: of the view that the composition of each of the committees is appropriate.
With regard to the Audit Committee, it was noted Board evaluation that Simon Radford has recent and relevant financial experience, Board and committee composition that the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant Succession planning to the sector in which the Company operates, and that Charlotte Tenure, annual re-election and independence Valeur is independent taking into account the guidance set out Apprenticeship to the Board in the AIC Guide and the Chapter 15 requirements of the UK Training and development needs of the Directors Listing Rules.
We have also periodically discussed the establishment of a remuneration committee for the Company Terms of reference and continue to be of the opinion that this is not necessary at The Nominations Committees written terms of reference, this stage but that this matter should be kept under review.
which are reviewed on a periodic basis, are available on the Companys website.
Succession planning No new Director has been appointed since the Companys IPO www.
eu about-us board-andin February 2014 and we are of the view that there is no gap on governance board-committees the Board that currently needs to be filled.
However, we are cognisant of the importance of the need to anticipate and prepare for the future and one of the Committees roles is to ensure that the skills, experience, knowledge and independence of the Directors on the Board reflect the changing demands of the business.
67 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Letter from the chair of the Nominations Committee continued We will continue to keep the leadership needs of the Company under review and to ensure the leadership of the Company is well-equipped to deal with any strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Company and the markets in which it operates.
In the event a new appointment needs to be made to the Board, the Committee intends to follow the formal policy for the appointment and selection of a non-executive Director which is set out in the terms of reference of the Nominations Committee, taking advantage, where appropriate, of its vast and strong network of relationships with highly qualified, skilled and experienced senior professionals, both within and outside of the Channel Islands, who may be suitable candidates.
Diversity policy The Board embraces diversity in its broadest sense, believing that a wider range of experience, background, perspective, skills and knowledge combine to contribute towards a high performing, effective Board, which is better able to support and direct the Company.
The Board has a formally documented diversity policy for the Company which can be viewed on the KWE website.
eu about-us board-andgovernance diversity Currently, the Committee does not consider that it is appropriate, or in the interest of the Company and its shareholders, to set a prescriptive diversity target for the Board.
As at the date of this report, women comprised 40% of the board of KWE.
Board apprenticeship We remain committed to improving opportunities for people from a diverse range of backgrounds to understand and prepare for membership and appointment to corporate boards.
In 2016, a second apprentice from Board Apprentice Ltd commenced a year of apprenticeship with the Company.
We continue to strongly believe in the potential for positive impact and influence the apprenticeship scheme can create and have again committed to take on an apprentice for the coming year.
Ongoing development and training During 2016, the Board was briefed by industry experts on the impact of Brexit on the UK property market, the commercial and retail property markets and demand in Spain, and relevant regulatory and corporate governance developments, in particular the recently implemented market abuse regulations and changes to the Irish finance bill introduced in October 2016.
These briefings were found to be extremely useful to the broader discussion at Board level.
Mark McNicholas Nominations Committee Chair 68 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
