e c n a C n u r l t e u v r o e G Governance framework The Board is primarily responsible for strategic direction and Code compliance leadership, evaluating and managing risk and ensuring internal This section has been prepared in accordance with the September controls are in place.
Its overriding duties are to run the Company 2014 edition of the Code, which applies to the Companys Annual as stewards for the Companys stakeholders, with good governance, Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 and strong values and a safety-driven and ethical culture.
is available to view at www.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for During the year, the Company complied fully with the provisions the Boards decision which is reviewed regularly.
the matters reserved for the Board is set out below.
These are Leadership matters that are significant to the Group as a whole because of The role of the Board their potential strategic, financial and reputational implications or The Board is accountable to shareholders for managing the consequences.
The Board has four principal committees to deal Company in a way which promotes its success.
It ensures that there with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The chairs of each is a complementary balance in its strategy between promoting committee provide detailed reports to the Board on the matters long-term growth and delivering short-term objectives.
discussed at each committee meeting to ensure that all Directors have visibility of and the opportunity to discuss the matters being considered by each committee.
Internal control Leadership Management Strategy MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD Key matters reserved for the annual production plan the annual performance The full schedule of the Board include the and financial budget: evaluation of the Board, matters reserved for approval of: its committees and the Board is available on the Companys dividend, the Groups strategy and individual Directors: the Companys website Health, Safety and business plans: www.
Environmental, Anti-Bribery annual and half-yearly material restructuring or and Corruption and Share reports, circulars and other reorganisation, including Dealing Policies: shareholder documents major acquisitions, and the principal the framework for the mergers and disposals and regulatory filings with stock management of the Groups changes to the Groups exchanges: and principal risks: capital structure: the appointment or removal the appointment and major Group financing, of the Companys external removal of Directors or the major capital expenditure auditors and main financial, Company Secretary: and projects: legal and technical advisers.
68 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 p i h s V d a r l a u e w s e t S STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Division of responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
A summary is set out below but for further information on the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Board members, please see the Companys website www.
Chairman The key roles and responsibilities include ensuring that: the Board and its committees operate effectively and in accordance with the highest standards Simon Heale ofcorporate governance: the interests of the Group are promoted to secure its future success, with special regard to Group planning and development: communication with shareholders is effective and the views of shareholders are heard and understood by the Board: and Board meetings are effective and open and constructive debate is promoted, the views of all Directors are taken into account and adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items.
Chief Executive The key roles and responsibilities include ensuring that: the Groups strategic direction is appropriate and the agreed strategy is implemented: Oleg Novachuk a strong senior management team is in place to lead the day-to-day running of the Groups business in an effective manner: a safety-focused culture is adopted throughout the Groups operations: activities are undertaken with special regard to environmental and social concerns in the communities in which the Group operates: staff recruitment and development is effectively planned and carried out: the Groups risk profile is managed in line with limits which are deemed acceptable by the Board and an effective framework of internal controls and risk management is maintained: appropriate annual budgets and medium-term financial and production plans are recommended tothe Board: the flow of information to the Board is relevant, accurate, timely and clear: and there is good communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Senior Independent Director The key roles and responsibilities include ensuring that he: acts as a point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders to discuss matters of concern Michael Lynch-Bell which would not be appropriate through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
No such matters of concern were raised byshareholders during 2016: acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: meets with the non-executive Directors without the Chairman being present at least annually and leads the Board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation of the Chairman: and is available to meet with a range of major shareholders when requested, to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns and report the outcome of such meetings at subsequent Board meetings.
Non-executive Directors The non-executive Directors have responsibility for: providing an independent external perspective to the deliberations of the Board, drawing on theirexperiences from their careers in other businesses: constructively challenging the strategies proposed by the executive Directors and scrutinising theperformance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives: monitoring the Groups risk profile: playing a key role in the functioning of the Board and its committees: and providing between them an appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independent judgement.
com 69 Governance framework CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Shareholders Approving formal matters and providing ongoing communication Board of Directors Managing the Company on behalf of its shareholders.
Setting the strategy and risk appetite and overseeing risk management, internal control and corporate governance processes Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Health, Safety and Audit Committee Environment Committee Reviewing the integrity of Reviewing the composition of Setting and implementing Developing and financial reporting, internal the Board and its committees, the remuneration overseeing a framework of controls and assurance including succession planning policy and determining HSE policies and standards processes and the work and leading the process the remuneration of to manage risk ofthe external auditors for appointments executive Directors Chief Executive Implementing the strategy determined by the Board Executive Committee Supporting the Chief Executive in the day-to-day running of the Group and operation of the risk management framework Board has concluded that each of Lynda Armstrong, Michael Effectiveness Lynch-Bell, John MacKenzie and Charles Watson provides objective Composition of the Board challenge to management and is willing to defend his or her own The Board is currently comprised of the Chairman, two executive beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the interests of the Directors and five non-executive Directors.
The balance of Company and its stakeholders.
None of them has any business or Directors on the Board ensures that no individual or small group other interests which are likely to, or could appear to, affect their of Directors can dominate the decision-making process and that judgement in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The the interests of minority shareholders are protected.
Biographies Board carries out a review of the independence of its Directors on of all Directors are set out on pages 66 and 67. an annual basis.
Vladimir Kim is not considered by the Board to be It is the Companys policy that at least half the Board, excluding independent due to his significant shareholding in the Company.
the Chairman, should be independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Vladimir Kim, the Board considers each of its current non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its determination of independence, the 70 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Commitment Development Directors are expected to attend every Board meeting and every On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive meeting of any committee of which they are a member, unless and structured induction, tailored to their individual requirements.
there are exceptional circumstances preventing their attendance.
The induction programme, which is arranged by the Company Scheduled Board and committee meetings are arranged at least a Secretary, includes visits to the Groups businesses and meetings year in advance to allow Directors to manage other commitments.
with senior managers and external advisers, as appropriate.
The programme is designed to facilitate their understanding Directors are provided with the relevant Board or committee of the Group, the key drivers of business performance, the role papers for consideration around seven days in advance of each of the Board and its committees, and the Companys corporate meeting via an electronic board portal.
Regular agenda items this governance practices and procedures.
It also provides them with year included: reports on health, safety and environmental matters: appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities cash forecasts: updates on Bozshakol and Aktogay and the East and liabilities as a director of a public limited company listed on the Region operations: requests for capital expenditure approval: London, Hong Kong and Kazakhstan Stock Exchanges.
reports on operational and financial performance, including cost optimisation measures: updates on the Groups principal risks and To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there risk management processes: updates on business development are procedures in place to provide them with appropriate and projects and strategic matters: corporate communications: changes timely information, including receiving information regarding in corporate governance: and reports received from Board Group business development and financial performance between committees.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting due to meetings.
This enables the Directors to discharge their duties exceptional circumstances, he or she still receives the papers in effectively on strategic, financial, operational, compliance and advance of the meeting and has the opportunity to discuss with governance issues.
the relevant chair or the Company Secretary any matters he or Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular she wishes to raise and to follow up on the decisions taken at the issues are provided.
During the year, the Board received briefings meeting.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary on Anti-Bribery and Corruption, the EU Market Abuse Regulation are always available to discuss issues relating to meetings or other and the Modern Slavery Act 2015. matters with the Directors.
Reasons for non-attendance are All Directors are provided with the opportunity for, and generally prior business or personal commitments that cannot be encouraged to attend, training to ensure they are kept up to date re-arranged or illness.
on relevant legal, financial and industry developments or changes The number of scheduled Board meetings which each Director was in best practice.
Typical training for Directors includes internal eligible to attend, and the number of meetings attended during 2016 briefings, attendance at seminars, forums, conferences and working is shown below: groups as well as the receipt of written and verbal updates from Attendance at relevant bodies or external advisers on legal, regulatory and scheduled meetings governance matters.
Directors during the year during 2016 The Board receives regular reports on shareholder sentiment Simon Heale 6 6 from the Head of Investor Relations to ensure that members Oleg Novachuk 6 6 of the Board remain apprised of the current views of shareholders.
Non-executive Directors can attend meetings with shareholders Andrew Southam 6 6 and analyst presentations and all shareholders have the Lynda Armstrong 6 6 opportunity to meet informally with the Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
Vladimir Kim 6 6 Michael Lynch-Bell 6 6 John MacKenzie 6 6 Charles Watson 6 6 In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board during the year, one further meeting was held which focused solely on a review of the Groups strategy and associated principal risks.
com 71 Governance framework Information and support Directors in evaluating the performance of the Chairman as part The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for of the Board evaluation process and, following the evaluation, the advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that Board remains satisfied that the Chairman continues to be able to Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations fulfil all of the commitments required of the role to its satisfaction.
are complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes Re-election of best practice.
The Company Secretary is also responsible Directors newly appointed by the Board are required to submit for ensuring communication flows between the Board and its themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual General committees, and between senior management and non-executive Meeting following their appointment.
In accordance with best Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code, all current Secretary and in appropriate circumstances, may also obtain Directors will be submitted for re-election at the forthcoming independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter Vladimir Kim non-executive Director and Eduard Ogay former reserved for the Board.
The Company Secretary is Susanna executive Director of the Company are deemed to be acting Freeman who joined the Group in 2014 and was appointed in in concert with each other by the Panel on Takeovers and April2016.
She is admitted as a solicitor in England and Wales and Mergers and to constitute a Concert Party for the purposes over the course of her career has been company secretary of of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Under the Listing threeother UK listed companies.
Rules, a Concert Party is classed as a controlling shareholder of Performance evaluation the Company.
This means that the independent non-executive An externally facilitated annual performance evaluation of Directors of the Company must be elected or re-elected by the Board and its committees is carried out every three years, a majority of votes cast by all shareholders.
Therefore, at the with internal annual performance evaluations carried out for forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the resolutions for the the intervening years.
The previous externally facilitated annual re-election of the independent non-executive Directors will performance evaluation of the Board and its committees was be taken on a poll and passed only if a majority of votes cast by conducted in 2015. independent shareholders which excludes Vladimir Kim and This year a full performance evaluation process of the Board and its Eduard Ogay, in addition to a majority of the votes cast by all committees, facilitated by the Chairman with the assistance of the shareholders, are in favour.
Company Secretary, was carried out.
An in depth questionnaire on Conflicts of interest the performance of the Board was circulated and completed by the Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they Directors and focused on: have or could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or strategy and risk evaluation: may conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors authority to approve composition and capability: such situations and there is no breach of duty by a Director if the organisational behaviour and culture: relevant situation has been authorised in advance.
In addition, a risk management and internal control: and Director has a duty to disclose to the Board any transaction or effectiveness of Board and committee meetings arrangement under consideration by the Company in which he and communication.
Based on the responses received to the questionnaires, the Directors are required to declare all directorships or other Company Secretary prepared a thorough report which was appointments outside the Group which could give rise to an circulated and presented to the Board at its meeting in December actual or potential conflict of interest.
The overall conclusion was that the Board and its committees Directors are able to authorise such conflict situations and, where were operating effectively.
A small number of potential improvement appropriate, this authorisation may be subject to certain conditions.
areas such as the addition of suggested agenda items, a review of Directors are also required to declare if there are any changes Board meeting materials, the timing of meetings and a continued in circumstances that may affect an existing authorisation.
The focus on succession planning were identified and are being Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any actual or incorporated into the Board and committee processes.
potential conflict of interest and any authorisation granted and maintains a register of this information.
During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings with non-executive Directors without executive Directors being present.
As the Chairmans first three year term came to an end in May 2016, his performance was evaluated by the Nomination Committee and, following a positive review, a recommendation was made to the Board that he be appointed for a second term of three years.
The Senior Independent Director also led the non-executive 72 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Companys Articles of Association also include provisions transactions, a review is undertaken to ensure that the proposed relating to the treatment of third-party confidential information transaction is on an arms length basis and on normal commercial received by a Director and the circumstances in which a Director terms.
Specific consideration is given to the requirements under the should absent himself or herself from a Board meeting and refrain Listing Rules.
from reviewing Board papers in relation to a matter in which he Competition policy or she has an actual or potential conflict.
These provisions will only A competition policy is in place to govern any dealings between apply where the circumstance giving rise to the potential conflict of the KAZ Minerals Group and the Kazakhmys group and their interest has previously been authorised by the Directors.
This policy recognises that the two groups are Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC competitors and its aim is to prevent anti-competitive behaviour.
The Group has in place an ABC Compliance Programme the Prior approval is required internally within the KAZ Minerals Group Programme to assist in the prevention of unlawful activities by before any Group company enters into any arrangement with a individuals or Group entities and to comply with the requirements Kazakhmys group company.
No competitively sensitive information of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
The Board has a firm stance on can be exchanged between the parties except in relation to a bribery and corruption and attaches the utmost importance to the specific business purpose and where suitable controls are in place.
Programme in clarifying the standards expected of all employees of Succession planning the Group wherever it conducts business.
The Group has conducted a review during the year of its personnel The foundation of the Programme is the ABC Code, below which requirements and has developed a programme to manage there is a subset of policies which provide a process for operating succession planning to ensure that the Group has the necessary in accordance with the Programme in specific situations.
These human resources to carry out its business successfully, especially policies include the process for dealing with public officials, gifts and in the area of production.
The Chief Executive has been closely hospitality, third-party due diligence, conflicts of interest, lobbying, involved in this process together with the Group Human Resources sponsorship and charitable contributions and Speak-Up.
Key positions have been identified and potential successors ABC and awareness campaigns are carried out across the Group assessed, following which they will be trained and developed.
It is and monitoring and assurance is carried out by the internal audit the Groups aim to develop its pipeline with regard to diversity, to team and by external advisers.
ensure that there would be minimal impact on its business in the event that key staff were to leave the Groups employment.
The During 2016, in conjunction with the new corporate values composition of the Board has also been reviewed during the year training, ABC training of staff deemed as being high or medium and a succession plan for the Board is being developed.
risk was conducted and online testing was carried out to ensure there was a good understanding of the Programme.
Awareness Accountability campaigns were undertaken, including by way of posters which The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken were displayed around operations sites and the publication of as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides articles in the corporate newsletter to promote awareness of ABC the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the matters such as facilitation payments and the confidential Speak-Up Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, facilities.
Detailed work was also undertaken in relation to supplier and that the business continues to operate as a going concern.
due diligence including the publication of a Suppliers Charter Risk management and internal control for distribution to suppliers as part of pre-contractual screening The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of which sets out the Groups zero tolerance approach to bribery the principal risks the Group is willing to take in order to achieve its and corruption.
strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and Related party transactions internal control systems.
The Board has established a Group-wide The Group has in place a policy for the identification of related system of risk management and internal control which identifies and parties and the process for the approval of any transactions with enables management and the Board to evaluate and manage the these parties.
Under this policy, all Kazakhmys group entities are Groups principal risks.
Due to the limitations inherent in any system deemed to be related parties due to Vladimir Kims substantial of internal control, this system provides robust, but not absolute, shareholdings in both the KAZ Minerals Group and the Kazakhmys assurance against material misstatement or loss and is designed to group.
The list of related parties is regularly reviewed and updated manage rather than eliminate risk.
The effectiveness of the Groups throughout the year and, prior to entering into any related party system of internal control is regularly reviewed by the Board.
com 73 Governance framework The Board confirms that throughout 2016 and up to the date of Findings are reported to relevant operational management who put approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, there have been in place processes for strengthening controls.
Internal audit follows rigorous processes in place to identify, evaluate and manage the up on the implementation of recommendations and reports on principal risks faced by the Group, including those that would progress to senior management and to the Audit Committee.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to the chair of liquidity in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, the Audit Committee and attends each Audit Committee Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting meeting to present the findings from internal audits.
The Audit published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Committee reviews and discusses the usefulness of and learnings To assist in the identification and management of the Groups achieved under these audits on an annual basis with the Head of principal risks, the Board has established a risk management Internal Audit.
framework, developed a system of regular reports from Modern Slavery Act 2015 management and reserved specific key matters for its decision.
The Board recognises the importance of the provisions of the The Board has authorised the Audit Committee to oversee the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Directors aim to ensure that risk management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups slavery and human trafficking have no part in the Groups supply financial reporting, internal control and assurance systems.
The Group has always been vigilant about employee welfare Board is regularly presented with an update on the Groups and aims to be transparent in its practices.
The Board has adopted principal risks together with a risk map, and any changes since the a Code of Fair Employment which sets out the Groups stance previous update are explained.
Each Board committee provides an in relation to forced labour, slavery, human trafficking and child update on any risks considered within its remit when providing a labour and its commitment to ensure that there is no modern regular update to the Board.
The Human Resources department has The Groups risk management framework is continually reviewed conducted a review to check internal compliance with the Code of by the Board, with specific consideration given to material financial, Fair Employment and no instances ofany breach were identified.
operational and compliance controls, and steps are taken to address The Group has also adopted a Suppliers Charter which sets out any issues.
During 2016, no significant internal control failings our expectations from our suppliers in relation to their treatment were identified.
of their workers to ensure they are committed to employment The Groups approach to risk management, the risks identified practices which are acceptable to the Group.
A number of and how it profiles these risks is set out in the Risk Management our customers have already agreed under the terms of their Overview and Principal Risks section on pages 56 to 62. contracts with us to comply with the principles of the Code of Fair Employment and to ensure there is no modern slavery within Internal audit their operations.
Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems of internal control are appropriate and effective to manage business The Company will publish its Modern Slavery Act statement later risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance this year.
with the Groups policies and legal and regulatory requirements.
Relations with shareholders It advises on ways in which areas of risk can be addressed and Dialogue with shareholders provides objective assurance on risk and controls to senior The Board endeavours to ensure good communication with its management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its key financial audits work is focused on the Groups principal risks: the Head audiences including institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts, of Internal Audit and the Group Risk Manager work together private individuals and potential new shareholders.
The Head of when considering the appropriate scope and focus of internal Investor Relations is in communication with shareholders on a audits.
The three year programme of work of the internal audit day-to-day basis and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer department is considered and approved by the Audit Committee are closely involved in planned investor relations activities at key on a rolling annual basis, subject to any additional suggestions from times throughout the year.
The Board is provided with shareholder the Committee.
Under the approved internal audit plan, a number and broader market feedback from the Head of Investor Relations of audits take place across the Groups operations and functions at each Board meeting.
to identify areas for improvement of the Groups internal controls.
74 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The executive Directors are available, through the Head of Investor cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies Relations, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time lodged prior to the meeting, were announced to the London and and the Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy Hong Kong Stock Exchanges and made available on the Companys with them.
Non-executive Directors make themselves available website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous toattend meetings with shareholders when requested, in order years, the Form of Proxy clearly advised that a vote withheld todevelop an understanding of their views.
The Company responds is nota vote in law and is not used in calculating the votes for asnecessary to requests it receives from individual shareholders on oragainst a resolution.
Board committees There is regular contact with key institutional shareholders, external The four principal committees of the Board are Audit, Health, financing providers and sell-side analysts to discuss the strategy, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration.
Board financial performance and investment activities of the Group.
committee members are appointed by the Board upon the Meetings with management are also supplemented by visits to recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which reviews the Groups operations.
During 2016, executive Directors and the composition of each committee regularly.
In accordance with senior management held meetings with institutional investors in their specific skills and experience, independent non-executive the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the United States Directors including the Chairman are appointed to different ofAmerica and attended conferences in these locations, providing Board committees.
acomprehensive dialoguewith shareholders and potential The Projects Assurance Committee which was set up in 2012 new investors.
reported into the Audit Committee.
Its remit was to procure During 2016, the Company issued quarterly production updates third-party, independent operational and financial assessments of in January, April, July and October and interim management the Groups major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay and statements in April and October.
These, together with copies to identify activities that were critical to the successful delivery of of analyst presentations each half year, the Groups preliminary the projects, and any issues and risks that were likely to preclude andhalf-yearly results and all announcements issued to the London their successful delivery.
As the focus is now on ramp up, the and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges in English and in Chinese, are Projects Assurance Committee ceased its activities at the end available on the Companys website www.
ofthe year and the Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee has been established.
Its role is the oversight of technical and Annual General Meetings operational matters at Bozshakol and Aktogay with the objective The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all of assuring that these operations implement systems and processes shareholders at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and it in line with good industry practice and achieve and maintain levels is Company policy not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders are of performance that compare favourably with other world class invited to attend the Annual General Meeting where there is an copper assets of similar scale.
This committee had its first meeting opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman in February 2017. and, through him, the chairs of the principal Board committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet Committee members are expected to attend each committee informally with the Directors.
meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
Only members of the committees are entitled At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provides a brief to attend committee meetings, but others may be invited to attend.
summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2016 Annual General Meeting The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed were voted on by way of a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll annually and are available to view on the Companys website follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes www.
They can be obtained on request from rather than just those of the shareholders attending the meeting.
the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Board committee membership resolutions proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting were The current membership of the Boards committees is shown voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes onpage 65. www.
com 75 Governance framework AUDIT COMMITTEE Composition The current members of the Committee are: Michael Lynch-Bell, Chair John MacKenzie Charles Watson Michael Lynch-Bell has recent and relevant financial experience, Dear shareholder, having spent 38 years with Ernst & Young developing and later This year John MacKenzie joined us as a member of the leading its global mining and energy practices.
John Mackenzie Committee and we have been fortunate to benefit from his has almost 25 years experience in the metals and mining sector significant experience in the copper mining industry.
I would andwas CEO of copper at Anglo American between 2009 like to thank both John and Charles Watson whose valuable and 2013 and Charles Watson has over 30 years experience contributions have enabled the Committee to perform its in the extractives industry.
Accordingly, the Board considers duties effectively.
that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the mining sector.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its assessment of effective governance in financial reporting, internal control The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, and assurance processes and on the procedures in place for Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and the lead partner the identification and management of risk.
During 2016 the and audit manager of the external auditors are usually invited Committee continued to focus on its core role of reviewing the to attend Committee meetings.
At the end of each meeting the Groups financial results, including significant financial reporting Committee meets separately with representatives of the external estimates and judgements, as well as the financial disclosures in auditors and the Head of Internal Audit, without management the interim management statements, monitoring the Groups being present, to discuss any matters arising from their audits systems of internal control and risk management and overseeing orinrelation to any other matter.
the relationship with the external auditors and with the internal Role and responsibilities audit function.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are set out on In this report there is a summary of the significant issues that the pages that follow.
Whilst the Committee has very specific the Committee considered over the course of the year and the duties which are set out in its terms of reference, its overarching activities that it undertook in the performance of its duties.
purpose is to reassure shareholders that their interests are properly protected in respect of the Companys financial management and Over the next 12 months, the Committee in addition to its reporting.
The Committee regularly updates the Board on matters usual duties, will continue to assess the implications of new discussed at its meetings.
The Board has delegated responsibility accounting standards with a focus on IFRS 15 Revenues from to the Committee for monitoring the Companys procedures and Contracts with Customers, IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 9 Financial system of internal control in relation to risk management and the Instruments.
The Committee will continue to monitor tax Committee oversees the internal and external audit processes developments arising from both Kazakhstan and the United which report into it.
Kingdom including updates on the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS project.
Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: I would like to acknowledge the role that the Projects Assurance monitoring and challenging, where necessary, the integrity of Committee has played in overseeing the development and thefinancial statements, the annual and half-yearly results, interim delivery of the Groups major growth projects at Bozshakol management statements and any other formal announcement and Aktogay.
The Projects Assurance Committee concluded its relating to financial performance, including a review of the work in October 2016, as the Group began to move into the financial reporting judgements which they contain: next stage, ramp up of production at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of management taking into account the views of Michael Lynch-Bell the external auditors in relation to the Companys financial statements, strategic report, financial review, governance Chair, Audit Committee statement insofar as it relates to audit and risk management, half-yearly reports, preliminary announcements and related formal statements, including the going concern assumption andthe viability statement: reviewing the Companys internal controls, including financial controls and risk management systems: 76 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS approving the annual and three year internal audit plans External auditors and monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal KPMG were appointed as external auditors of the Group in 2012 audit function: following a formal competitive tender process and continue to be overseeing the work of the Projects Assurance Committee until the Companys external auditors.
October 2016: The appointment of KPMG is reviewed annually and the overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, Committee undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of the including the monitoring of their independence and expertise, external audit process during the year.
Consideration was given the terms of their engagement and fees, and assessing the to performance, objectivity, independence, resource and relevant effectiveness of the audit process with due regard to relevant experience of the external auditors and following the identification UKprofessional and regulatory requirements: and discussion of improvements that could be implemented, the agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit plan and Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of reviewing the output: KPMG.
The Committee believes that the Group continues to reviewing and approving any changes to the policy on the benefit from the insight and knowledge that the external auditors provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: have of its business processes and controls and following the Committees recommendation, the Board has approved resolutions assessing annually the Committees own performance, to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, constitution and terms of reference: and to reappoint KPMG as the Companys external auditors and to reporting to the Board on how the Committee has discharged authorise the Directors to set KPMGs remuneration.
The 2016 financial year was the final year of Mr Daboos five year A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available to view rotation period as the lead audit engagement partner for KPMG on the Companys website www.
and a successor has been identified.
In accordance with regulations on tendering audit contracts at least AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES every 10 years, it continues to be the intention of the Committee that the external audit will be put out to tender by 2022 at the latest, subject to any further regulatory change.
Reviewing Overseeing Monitoring Policy on the provision of non-audit services The Committee reviews annually the Groups policy on the use ofthe external auditors for non-audit services.
The policy identifies those non-audit services which may, and those which may not, Reporting Analysing be provided and sets out the process through which non-audit services must be approved.
Under the policy, the external auditors can only be used for non-audit services where there are benefits to the Group and the provision of such services will not threaten Attendance at Audit Committee meetings theexternal auditors independence and objectivity.
During 2016, there were six scheduled meetings of the Audit Under the policy, any new engagement for non-audit services in Committee, including two meetings which were convened to excess of 100,000 must be approved by either the Chief Financial discuss one item of business only, the financial disclosures in the Officer and the Committee chair or a sub-committee of any two interim management statements, with each member attending Committee members and certain engagements must additionally asshown below: be subject to a competitive tender process.
Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings Full information on engagements and total annual fees paid for Members member since during 2016 non-audit services are reported to the Committee.
Details of all Michael Lynch-Bell 27 February 2013 6 6 fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2016 and information on the John MacKenzie 1 January 2016 6 6 nature of non-audit fees appear in note 10 to the consolidated 1 financial statements on page 129.
Charles Watson 24 August 2011 5 6 Activities in 2016 1 The meeting missed was to discuss one item of business only, the financial disclosures At its meetings in 2016, the Committee: in the interim management statements.
Financial reporting reviewed the annual and half-yearly results and interim management statements including the quality and acceptability of accounting policies, significant financial reporting estimates www.
com 77 Governance framework and judgements applied in preparing them and the transparency External auditors and clarity of the disclosures within them and compliance with approved the terms of engagement of the external auditors, financial reporting standards and governance: thefees paid and scope of work: considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as received reports on the findings of the external auditors a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the during the half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys recommendations made to management by the external auditors position and performance, business model and strategy: and managements responses: received reports from management and the external auditors reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external onaccounting, financial reporting, regulatory and taxation issues: auditors in respect of the previous financial year and recommended their reappointment: considered impairment reviews performed by management: performed an annual review of the policies on the independence reviewed the methodology for producing the disclosure of ore and objectivity of the external auditors, the use of the external reserves and mineral resources and other relevant disclosures in auditors for non-audit services, and the employment of former the Annual Report and Accounts: employees of the external auditors: reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going assessed the continued independence and objectivity of the concern basis: and external auditors: and considered the viability statement to be made by the Company.
reviewed the quality assurance processes of the external auditors Internal control and letters of representation to them.
reviewed the structure and effectiveness of the Groups system of Other matters internal control as set out on pages 73 and 74 and the disclosures reviewed reports on changes to UK and Kazakhstan made in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter: tax legislation: reviewed and recommended to the Board amendments to the reviewed the Speak-Up policy: Group Treasury Policy: received reports on matters raised via the Speak-Up facilities, the reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the process for the investigation of those matters raised, the outcome external auditors and the statement concerning such disclosure in of any investigation and any actions taken in relation thereto: the Annual Report and Accounts: and reviewed progress and suggested updates and received reports from the Projects Assurance Committee.
improvements to the Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Risk management Compliance Programme: received an overview of the Groups risk environment and risk received an update from management on the latest technical management activities together with analysis of the key risks to accounting, taxation and regulatory issues: achieving the Groups strategic priorities: received a presentation on the structure and composition reviewed and challenged the Groups top 20 risks identified by of theGroups finance function: management in the Group risk map and movements of those reviewed the terms of reference and the results of risks over the course of the year and received benchmarking the performance evaluation of the Committee: and of the Groups principal risks against industry peers: reviewed the training requirements of the Committee members.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group risk management framework as described on pages 56 and 57: Projects Assurance Committee reviewed reports from internal audit on issues identified The Projects Assurance Committee, comprising Charles Watson and checked that there was an appropriate response Chair, Oleg Novachuk, Lynda Armstrong and John MacKenzie, frommanagement: has overseen the development of the Groups major growth reviewed reports from external auditors on any issues identified projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay since 2012.
It met four times in the course of their work including the internal controls during 2016 to monitor construction progress, health, safety and report: and environmental performance and overall operational readiness at the major growth projects.
It regularly received reports and monitored the Groups catastrophic risk insurance arrangements.
presentations from management and from independent consultants Internal audit who conducted site visits in order to carry out operational and approved the annual and rolling three year operational plans: and financial assessments.
regularly reviewed reports from the internal audit department, As commercial production has been reached at both of the received presentations from the Head of Internal Audit on Bozshakol sulphide and Aktogay oxide plants, the operation of internal control and followed up on the manner in which theProjects Assurance Committee concluded in October 2016. recommendations made in these audits had been addressed.
78 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant judgements considered by the Audit Committee The Committee considered, amongst other matters, a number of significant judgements in relation to the financial reporting of the Group, including: Significant issue Committee action Going concern and viability statement It is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting The Committee considered and approved the underlying in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. assumptions used in the preparation of the viability In reaching this conclusion, management took into account the financial statement, together with the going concern assumption.
position of the Group and its forecast cash flows and made certain After reviewing papers prepared by management and assumptions and judgements as set out in the basis of preparation note 2 a taking into account the external auditors review of the to the financial statements on pages 116 and 117 and in the Strategic Report papers and their assumptions, the Committee concluded on page 41. that it was appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
The Committee considered the viability This Annual Report and Accounts also includes the viability statement statement and going concern statement and approved in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
considered the Groups viability statement, in addition to and together with the going concern statement, which is set out on page 58.
Impairments Group At 30 June 2016, a reduction in expectations for near-term copper prices The Committee considered papers setting out the was identified as an impairment indicator at the Groups Bozymchak results of the impairment review at 30 June 2016 and operation which has been previously impaired and whose recoverable value managements assessment as at 31 December 2016. is highly dependent on commodity prices in the near term.
An impairment Having received input from the external auditors and review was undertaken which found no impairment was required.
challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used by management in the discounted cash flow models at At 31 December 2016, an assessment of impairment indicators across 30 June 2016 for the Bozymchak cash generating unit, as the Groups cash generating units was performed and did not identify well as evaluating the assessment of impairment indicators indicators which would require an impairment review.
Accordingly, no at 31 December 2016, the Committee agreed with impairment reviews were performed on the cash generating units.
Impairments KAZ Minerals PLC In the second half of 2016 the near-term outlook for the Groups main The Committee considered papers setting out commodity, copper, materially improved, Bozshakol achieved commercial managements valuation of the Companys investments.
production and construction at Aktogay sulphide was substantially Having received input from the external auditors, completed.
Following these developments, the carrying value of the challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used Companys investments was re-assessed and an impairment provision by management in the discounted cash flow models and was partially reversed.
See page 160 of the Companys standalone also considered external market valuations of the Group, financial statements.
the Committee agreed with managements assessment and disclosures.
Consideration and assessment of tax matters of the Group Due to the evolving nature of tax legislation and its application in The Committee considered papers prepared by Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, management is required to make judgements management and, after receiving input from the external and estimates in relation to tax risks, the outcomes of which can be less auditor, concluded that the Groups tax position has been predictable than in other jurisdictions.
Management has determined its best appropriately accounted for and disclosed.
estimates for taxes payable and the likelihood and timing of taxes receivable, and accounted for them accordingly.
Commercial production at Aktogay and Bozshakol The Aktogay oxide plant and the Bozshakol sulphide concentrator The Committee considered papers prepared by commenced production in the first quarter of 2016 and were considered to management and, taking into account the external auditors be in the pre-commercial production stage, with revenues and operating review of the papers and their assumptions, concluded that costs capitalised to property, plant and equipment.
Management monitored managements assessments of commercial production on the performance of the respective plants during the year, in particular both assets were appropriate.
against their design capacities, and determined that the Aktogay oxide and Bozshakol sulphide plants achieved commercial production on 1 July 2016 and 27 October 2016, respectively, from which dates revenues and related operating costs are reflected in the Groups income statement.
com 79 Governance framework HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under review the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and standards which are used to assess, manage and where possible prevent, health, safety and environmental risks.
Reports on the Committees reviews are then provided to the Board.
Two of the three meetings of the Committee during the year were held in Kazakhstan and involved meeting with management Dear shareholder, responsible for health and safety at the mine sites, with each visit Over the course of the year, the Committee has continued lasting for two or three days.
to support the commitment of management to the control Key responsibilities of the Committee include: of health, safety and environmental HSE related risks, whilst providing essential challenge.
assessing the impact of health, safety and environmental issues on the Groups stakeholders and ensuring remedial action is taken in This year we conducted a thorough review of environmental respect of any such issues where appropriate: reports from an independent expert on tailings dams, reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant health, safety we received a report from the newly appointed Group and environmental legislation: Occupational Hygienist and we met with operational monitoring and assessing the commitment and behaviour management and the Group HSE team in Kazakhstan.
of management towards health, safety and environmental The Committee has spent time monitoring compliance with related risks: newly implemented safety standards and has encouraged reviewing significant safety incidents, considering the key causes improved reporting clarity across the Group.
thereof and ensuring actions are taken to prevent similar We made two trips to Kazakhstan in 2016, one in June and incidents occurring: one in October 2016, to visit three of our operations.
The facilitating the promotion by management of a culture of care Committee visited the two new mines, Bozshakol and Aktogay, and sensitivity towards the environment and the communities as well as Orlovsky, an established underground mine in the inwhich the Group operates: East Region.
During our visits to the operations we met with making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding locally based staff and managers to gain a first-hand view of appropriate health, safety and environmental performance the risks and challenges faced by them, to see the Groups HSE objectives for executive Directors and certain senior managers initiatives in practice and discuss areas where improvements and providing its assessment as to performance against such could be made and the ways in which these could be achieved.
objectives: and Our particular focus is helping the Group achieve its goal of reviewing the findings of any internal or external reports on zero fatalities.
theGroups health, safety and environmental systems.
The Committee has carried out a review of the three year HSE The Committees terms of reference are available to view on strategy and we look forward to seeing further progress made theCompanys website www.
by the Group in all HSE areas over the next few years.
Attendance at Health, Safety and Environment Charles Watson Committee meetings Chair, Health, Safety and Environment Committee There were three scheduled meetings of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee during 2016, with each member attending as shown below: Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings Members member since during 2016 Charles Watson 16 November 2011 3 3 Lynda Armstrong 21 October 2013 3 3 Simon Heale 13 March 2013 3 3 John MacKenzie 1 March 2015 3 3 80 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Senior Independent Director generally participates in site visits reviewed environmental reports prepared for the Group and Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
including the tailings dam report: met with management at Orlovsky and visited the Activities in 2016 underground mine: At its meetings in 2016, the Committee, amongst other matters: reviewed the Groups environmental strategy: reviewed an update on the three year health and safety strategy met with management at Bozshakol and visited the clay plant, the implementation plan focused on strengthening the long-term mine and the concentrator: and foundations for safe productive work: received an update on the EMEX health and safety reporting received a status update on corporate responsibility reporting, system across the Group.
including key performance indicators: Plans for 2017 reviewed and evaluated fatal and serious incident reports through In 2017 the Committee will seek assurance that health, safety the Fatal and Serious Incidents Review Panel and visited locations and environmental systems, procedures and behaviours are well of fatalities and serious incidents at the mines: established in Bozshakol and Aktogay during the operational phase.
evaluated the Committees effectiveness for 2016, including The Committee will continue to monitor and assess HSE standards identifying training needs and reviewed its terms of reference and in the East Region and Bozymchak.
Over the course of the year future role and direction: it plans to visit Artemyevsky mine in the East Region, as well as visited the mine and the primary crusher at Aktogay where Bozshakol and Aktogay.
the Committee met with local management and obtained an overview of the status of operational readiness: Q&A with Charles Watson Q: What is the role of the KAZ Minerals Health, Safety and was appointed during the year to work on this area and the Environment Committee?
Committee received valuable reports from him.
A: Operating safely and responsibly is central to KAZ Minerals Q: How important are Committee site visits and what is the corporate values.
The Committees role is to support priority for the Committee during these visits?
management in achieving the Groups goal of zero fatalities and A: The Committee places great importance on visiting the Groups minimising the impact of our operations on the environment.
The purpose is not only to see the mines in operation, The Committee provides an independent perspective and but most importantly to meet with local management to gain an challenge to operational management in these areas, drawing understanding of the risks and challenges faced by them and to upon our experience gained in the mining and wider extractives demonstrate to them that they have the Committees full support industries and upon the advice of external experts.
During the visits, the Committee reviews site visits the Committee ensures that the expectations of the reports on safety incidents which are presented by the relevant Board are clearly understood by local management, and that the members of mine management and our trips usually include visits Board is kept apprised of the challenges facing management as to incident sites.
The Committee encourages local management we work towards zero fatalities and a cleaner environment at to share experiences and learnings with each other.
discussions with management on challenging areas which bring Q: What have been the key areas of focus for the Committee valuable insights and provide the opportunity for the Committee this year?
to share its international experience with management.
A: There were three main areas of focus in 2016.
One was Q: What are the key health and safety challenges for copper reviewing and evaluating fatal and serious incident reports and mining companies operating in Kazakhstan?
visiting the locations of these incidents to see how they can A: The physical hazards in mines are no different in Kazakhstan be prevented in the future, the second was overseeing the from anywhere else in the world.
The Group has made establishment of global best practice standards right from the real progress over the last five years but we must improve start at our new operations, Bozshakol and Aktogay, and the third performance further with additional investment and training.
was reassessing the key risks associated with underground mining Culture and attitudes towards health and safety are vital.
in our operations in the East Region.
Management and the workforce in general are encouraged In the East Region operations we looked closely at the to apply the highest international standards.
We incentivise longer-term occupational health hazards which are inherent safe behaviour in the workplace and we do not tolerate in underground operations.
A Group Occupational Hygienist unsafe practices.
com 81 Governance framework NOMINATION COMMITTEE Composition The current members of the Committee are: Simon Heale, Chairman Lynda Armstrong Michael Lynch-Bell Role and responsibilities Dear shareholder, The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process There were no changes to the Board over the year.
The for Board and committee appointments and for keeping under Committee met three times and some of the work carried out review the balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge by the Committee is summarised below.
Its duties under the and general diversity on the Board to ensure the balance and Code are set out opposite.
composition of the Board and its committees remains appropriate.
During the year, after an in depth review of the Chairmans The Committee, which provides a rigorous, formal and transparent performance and contribution, it was recommended to the procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, Board that the Chairman be appointed for a second term of generally consults with external consultants and advisers on three years from May 2016.
In addition, three non-executive prospective Board appointments.
The Committee keeps under Directors were, following the Committees recommendation, review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and its issued with new letters of appointment.
It assesses the performance of current Directors and Lynch-Bell and Lynda Armstrong were all appointed for a second makes recommendations to the Board for their reappointment term of three years through to 2019. where appropriate as well as advising the Board on the terms In light of the impending expiry of Charles Watsons second of any reappointment.
It supervises and puts in place succession three year term on the Board in August 2017, a rigorous planning for non-executive Directors and certain senior managers review of his independence was carried out by the Committee.
and, where appropriate, makes recommendations to the Board on Following this review it was determined that Charles Watson Directors conflicts of interest for authorisation.
remained independent and, after considering the valuable role Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: that he plays as Chair of the Health, Safety and Environment regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including Committee, his leadership on the Projects Assurance skills, experience, independence, knowledge and general diversity Committee, as well as his overall contribution to the Board and of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with its committees, it was decided that his appointment be renewed regard to any changes: for a further one year term.
In 2018 he will be in his seventh year overseeing succession planning for Directors and certain senior as a Director of the Company, at which point his appointment managers, taking into account the challenges and opportunities will be considered again by the Committee.
facing the Company, and the skills and expertise that will be In February 2017, the Committee considered and discussed a needed on the Board in the future: paper setting out the regulations and guidelines regarding the responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the approval retirement of Directors at the Annual General Meeting and of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when having discussed the performance of all Directors, concluded they arise in light of the role and capabilities required for a that it was appropriate to recommend that all the Directors be particular appointment: proposed to retire and stand for re-election by shareholders keeping under review Directors existing and any new conflicts of at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in interest and making recommendations as to whether a conflict April 2017. should be authorised: Following the decision to establish the Operations Ramp reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation Up Assurance Committee ORAC to oversee the ramp process in relation to the composition of the Board and reviewing up of production at the Groups major growth projects, the annually the time commitment required from the non-executive Committee recommended to the Board as members of Directors to fulfil their duties: the ORAC, John MacKenzie, Lynda Armstrong and Charles reviewing annually the Committees own performance, Watson.
The Committee also unanimously agreed that John constitution and terms of reference: MacKenzie, with his significant operational mining experience, recommending to the Board suitable candidates for the was the appropriate person to chair the ORAC and this membership of Board committees: recommendation was approved by the Board.
recommending the reappointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office: and Simon Heale Chair, Nomination Committee 82 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS recommending the re-election by shareholders of any Director Activities in 2016 in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate At its meetings in 2016, the Committee amongst other matters: Governance Code.
recommended the reappointment of the Chairman and three The Committees terms of reference are available to view on the non-executive Directors each for a second term of three years Companys website www.
and recommended the appointment of Charles Watson for a further term of one year following the end of his six year period Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings of appointment to the Board: There were three scheduled meetings of the Nomination in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Committee during 2016, each member attending as shown below: recommended to the Board the re-election of all Directors Attendance at by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting having Committee scheduled meetings Members member since during 2016 due regard to the performance and ability of each Director tocontinue to contribute to the Board and its committees: Simon Heale 1 January 2007 3 3 recommended to the Board the composition and chairship Lynda Armstrong 7 May 2015 3 3 oftheOperations Ramp Up Assurance Committee: reviewed the time commitment required by non-executive Michael Lynch-Bell 1 September 2013 3 3 Directors to fulfil their duties: and amended its terms of reference and conducted a review of Governance theresults of the performance evaluation of the Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Company and, whilst he is not deemed to be independent, the majority of Recruitment process the members of the Committee are independent non-executive For the recruitment of new candidates to fill appointments to the Directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Board we use recruitment firms who specialise in the recruitment Governance Code.
If a matter concerns the Chairman, then he of high calibre executive and non-executive candidates and have leaves the meeting and Michael Lynch-Bell takes the chair.
no other connection with the Company, to ensure that we have access to a wide and high calibre pool of candidates from which to Diversity choose.
A formal, rigorous and transparent search process is put in The Board is comprised of Directors with a wide range of skills and place with a candidate profile and position specification prepared, business experience drawn from a number of industries, which including time commitment expected and experience required.
enables different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
Interviews are then conducted by the Chairman, the other Furthermore, the Board is made up of a variety of nationalities, members of the Committee and the Chief Executive.
which brings cultural diversity as well as different geographical experiences and viewpoints.
The combination of these factors means that the Board benefits from many different competencies, perspectives and thoughts, which provides a dynamic environment for decision making.
When recruiting, the Board seeks to maintain its diversity.
The Board recognises the need to create conditions which foster talent and encourage all employees to achieve their full career potential in the Group.
As part of the Groups overall approach tohuman resource management it encourages employee diversity andaims to ensure that KAZ Minerals future senior leadership team reflects the demographics of the countries in which it operates and the general employee base.
Despite mining being traditionally a male dominated industry, 26% of our employees are women and at senior management level the same percentage of Group employees are women.
