1 Peter Hill CBE His early career was spent with 5 Ruth Cairnie Corporate Non-executive Chairman natural resources companies Independent Non-executive Nationality: British Anglo American, Rio Tinto and Director governance A Mining Engineer by BP: he was an Executive Director Nationality: British report background, Peter was on the Board of Costain Group Appointed to the Board in 2010, appointed as Non-executive plc, and he has also held Ruth is a member of the Board of Directors Chairman and Chairman of management positions with Nomination, Audit and Health, the Nomination Committee BTR plc and Invensys plc.
Safety, Environment & Quality in July 2016.
Committees and is Chairman of 2 Alain Michaelis the Remuneration Committee.
Peter is also Non-executive Chief Executive Chairman of Volution Group plc Nationality: British A physicist by background, and of Imagination Technologies See page 46 for biography.
Ruths strategic and commercial plc, and is a Non-executive experience were gained within Director of the Royal Air Force.
3 James Hind Shell, where she held a number He was previously NonFinance Director of senior international roles, executive Chairman of Alent plc Nationality: British most recently as Executive Vice from 2012 to the end of 2015: See page 46 for biography.
President Strategy and Planning, Chief Executive of the before her retirement in 2014. electronics and technology 4 Venu Raju Ruth is a Non-executive group Laird PLC from 2002 to Engineering and Operations Director of Associated British late 2011: a Non-executive Director Foods plc and Rolls-Royce Director on the Boards of Nationality: Singaporean Holdings plc.
Ruth is the Cookson Group plc, Meggitt plc See page 46 for biography.
Industry chair of the POWERful and Oxford Instruments plc, Women Board.
and was a Non-executive Board member of UK Trade and Investment.
4 3 2 1 44 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 Paul Withers 7 Chris Girling 8 Nancy Tuor Moore Diversity % Senior Independent Director Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Female 25 Nationality: British Director Director Male 75 Appointed to the Board in 2012 Nationality: British Nationality: American and a member of the Audit, Chris was appointed to the Nancy was appointed to the Nomination, Remuneration and Board in 2011 and is a member Board in 2014 and is a member Health, Safety, Environment & of the Remuneration, of the Audit, Nomination and Quality Committees, Paul is Nomination and Health, Safety, Remuneration Committees and also the Senior Independent Environment & Quality Chairman of the Health, Safety, Director.
Committees and is Chairman Environment and Quality of the Audit Committee.
 Mechanical Engineer and was A Chartered Accountant by Nancys extensive international Group Managing Director at BPB training, Chris was formerly business experience, together plc, the international building Group Finance Director of with a proven record in winning materials business, where he Carillion plc and he brings to and safely delivering both global spent his executive career.
Keller his background in a range and local contracts, was gained of sectors, as well as recent and at CH2M Hill, Inc. where she Length of tenure % He is a Non-executive Director .
held the board position of Group 1 year 25 of Devro plc.
President and Corporate 1-3 years 25 He is a Non-executive Director Sponsor for Sustainability 4-6 years 37.5 of Workspace Group PLC and before retiring in 2013.
7-9 years 0 South East Water Limited and 10 years 12.5 the independent Chairman Nancy is a Non-executive Director Trustee for Slaughter and Mays of Global Food Exchange and pension fund.
Terracon, Inc. and a member of the Board of Governors for Colorado State University.
9 Kerry Porritt Company Secretary Nationality: British See page 47 for biography.
Number of Board members with relevant industry experience Oil and gas 3 Technology 3 Construction 4 Engineering 6 6 8 Number of Board members with relevant regional experience Americas 6 Europe 7 Middle East 4 Africa 2 Asia-Pacific 6 5 7 9 Keller Group plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1 Alain Michaelis He has 12 years experience 4 John Rubright Corporate Chief Executive in the engineering sector and President of North America Nationality: British  Nationality: American governance Alain was appointed Chief strategic management John was appointed as President report Executive of Keller in May 2015 experience.
Hequalifiedasa of North America in January 2013. and is a member of the Board Chartered Accountant with Executive Committee of Directors.
John joined the group in 1986 and was appointed as Senior He was previously Group James has an MA Hons in Vice-President, Southern Operations Director of History from Cambridge Region, of Hayward Baker in Rolls-Royce plc where he also University.
He became President of served as a major divisional Hayward Baker in 2011 and in head.
He has held senior Appointed to the Executive 2013, John was appointed leadership positions at Tenneco, Committee on its formation President of Keller North a Tier 1 automotive supplier in 2012.
John attended Penn and at Wolseley, the building  products distributor.
Alain 3 Venu Raju as a Civil Engineer.
Engineering and Operations Director John was appointed to the Alain has extensive operational Nationality: Singaporean Executive Committee in 2013. and strategic management Venu was appointed experience within international Engineering and Operations 5 Thorsten Holl businesses across America, Director on 1 January 2017 President of EMEA Asia-PacificandEMEA.
Alainhas and is a member of the Board Europe, Middle East and Africa a BEng Hons from Imperial of Directors.
Nationality: German College and an MBA from Thorsten was appointed President INSEAD.
He is a fellow of the Venu began his career with of EMEA in November 2015.
Keller in Germany in 1994 as a geotechnical engineer.
He has Thorsten was Chief Executive Alain is Chairman of the held the roles of Managing at the ARVOS-Group Alstoms Executive Committee.
Director Keller Singapore, Steam Auxiliary Components Malaysia and India: Business Unit division as independent 2 James Hind Manager, Keller Far East in 2009: spin-off whichhesuccessfully Finance Director and Managing Director, Asia.
developed as a stand-alone Nationality: British Venu has extensive operational business.
He has held a number James was appointed Finance and strategic management of leadership roles with ABB and Director in 2003 and is a member experience.
Born in India, he the Alstom Group, where he led of the Board of Directors.
studied civil engineering in India several of its international and the USA, has a PhD in businesses, including in China, He was previously Group structural engineering from where he built up a number of Financial Controller at DS Smith Duke University and a Doctorate joint ventures.
James worked in the New in geotechnical engineering YorkofficeofCoopers& from Karlsruhe University.
 Lybrand advising on mergers Engineer at the Technical and acquisitions.
Venu was appointed to the University of Karlsruhe and has a Executive Committee on its Masters of Commerce Finance formation in 2012.
& Accounting from the University of Wollongong.
Thorsten was appointed to the Executive Committee in 2015.
The role of the Committee is to assist the Chief Executive in: Developing and implementing strategy, operational plans, budgets, policies and procedures: Monitoring operating and financialperformance: 1 3 5 Assessing and controlling risks: Prioritising and allocating resource: and Monitoring competitive forces in each area in which we operate.
2 4 6 46 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 Mark Kliner  9 Joseph Hubback Strategy strong link President of APAC in a number of blue-chip Strategy Director with personal objectives Asia-Pacific region companies.
Graeme was Group Nationality: British From 2016, the personal Nationality: British Head of Talent and Leadership Joseph was appointed Strategy objectives of the Executive Mark was appointed President of for Legal & General, HR Director, Director in January 2016.
Committee members have APAC in January 2016, following Mediterranean Basin and Africa  the merger of Keller Australia region for BG Group, and spent He was previously a Partner at levers.
Below are a number of and Keller Asia.
most of his early career with McKinsey & Company in London successful projects undertaken Schlumberger in various HR where he worked with clients in by Committee members during Between 2009 and 2015, he .
the engineering and high-tech the year.
Prior to McKinsey he Keller Australia, prior to which, He received an MA Hons in held a variety of roles with ICI Expanding our APAC he was Managing Director of Accountancy & Economics from over a 10-year period.
Joseph product offering Piling Contractors.
the University of Dundee in 1991. started in project engineering, Moving our near-shore marine building factories, before capability from Australia to India Mark has an extensive career Graeme joined the Executive moving into operations and spanning over 30 years in piling, Committee in January 2017. supply chain management and Strategic lever diaphragm walling, ground managing global client accounts.
1 Growth improvement and marine 8 Kerry Porritt construction, commencing in Group Company Secretary Joseph has a MEng from Business Unit strategy the UK in 1985.
He has over Nationality: British Oxford University.
Developing local and global 20 years of international Kerry was appointed Group BU strategies experience including Company Secretary in 2013.
Joseph was appointed to the Directorships in the UK and Executive Committee in Strategic lever Middle East, MD CEO Australia Kerry has over 20 years January 2016.
2 Customers and New Zealand and experience of company President ASEAN.
secretarial roles within 10 Michael Sinclair-Williams Procurement function international listed companies.
HSEQ Director Establishing a strong  She has also provided strategic Nationality: British Procurement function Professional Engineer and has advice and business development Michael was appointed Health, a Postgraduate Diploma from consultancy services and acted Safety and Environment Strategic lever Oxford University.
as a specialist advisor for IPOs.
In 2016, he also 3 Scale In 2015 she was appointed became responsible for Quality Mark was appointed to the Group Ethics and Compliance and Continuous Improvement.
Data management systems Executive Committee on its Officer,  Optimising our data formation in 2012. the groups Ethics and Michael has worked on some of management systems Compliance programme.
She the worlds most interesting 7 Graeme Cook oversees the groups risk, projects in both an operational Strategic lever Human Resources Director compliance and governance.
He played 4 Engineering and Operations Nationality: British instrumental roles in the Graeme was appointed HR She is a Fellow of the Institute transport elements of the Project Manager Academy Director in January 2017. of Chartered Secretaries and London 2012 Olympic Games Development Programme Administrators and holds a and delivery of a new high speed Investing in our global skills He joins from EnQuest, a degree in Law from Birmingham line in Europe and has worked capabilities FTSE oil and gas production City University.
Kerry is an Aspire extensively abroad.
company where he was the Foundation mentor.
Strategic lever Group HR Director.
Michael holds a PhD in Risk 5 People Kerry was appointed to the Quality Management and is a Graemehassignificant Executive Committee in 2013. graduate of the Sad Business international experience having School Oxford senior been assigned to management leadership programme.
roles in the UK, Africa and the Middle East.
Graeme has over Michael joined the Executive 25 years experience in both Committee in 2012.
7 9 8 10 Keller Group plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Chairmans introduction a strong commitment to their role.
The resulting development themes that arose from the evaluation are discussed on page 54 and will help shape my priorities as Chairman for the 2017 year.
Further information on the Boards succession planning, the Board evaluation and the work of the Nomination Committee in 2016 can be found on pages 54 and 55 of this report.
The Board believes it is important that it collectively, and its Non-executive Directors individually, remain in touch with the Company and its people.
In April, the Board visited the Companys operations in Poland, and met with local and North-East European regional management.
Individual Non-executive Directors attended the annual Group Leadership conference, and made visits to operations in continental Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.
Additionally, executives below Board level made presentations at the Board.
 objectivity and have the correct balance of experience, diversity and skills.
It also needs a good understanding of the operations I a m pleased to be leading a Board with such of the business and I am pleased to be leading a Board with such independence, experience, diversity and knowledge.
independence, experience, diversity and knowledge.
We continuously review and seek to improve our governance Dear shareholder frameworks and systems.
The terms of reference for each of the I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report for Committees were reviewed and adjusted as necessary to improve , onbehalfoftheBoard.
Ibelievethatastrong,  During the second half of this year, the Board revised its delegated is essential in supporting management to deliver the Companys authoritiestoreflect, amongstothermatters, thegroupsgrowth, strategy and long-term business success.
Good governance has the increased levels of oversight of strategy and operational matters supported the Board and Executive team in progressing Kellers provided by the Executive team and the increase in the number of newly refreshed long-term strategy over the year and ensured that large jobs that are bid for on a regular basis across the organisation.
the business has remained resilient in delivering shorter-term The Board adopted a new Code of Business Conduct, designed to performance despite a number of challenging markets.
promote our culture of a global Keller just one element of our wider Ethics and Compliance programme to further promote honesty, Over the few months I have been in role as Chairman, I have been fairness and integrity in relations between the Company, employees impressed by the time and commitment given by all of my Board and their work colleagues, customers, suppliers, competitors and colleagues in supporting and challenging, where required, the the communities in which we work.
Executive team, whose job it is to manage the Company day to day, to drive performance and create value for our shareholders and In the Directors Remuneration Report, set out on pages 59 to 78, other stakeholders.
we describe the strategic review of executive remuneration that  I was delighted to be appointed Chairman of the Board, following the for purpose and aligned to both long-term shareholders interests retirement of Roy Franklin in July 2016.
The search and selection and to the achievement of the Companys refreshed strategy.
process was led by Paul Withers, the Senior Independent Director.
Consistent with good governance, an extensive consultation was conducted with our major shareholders before we arrived at our In December 2016, Dr Wolfgang Sondermann stepped down as policy changes.
We hope that you will support the new an Executive Director after thirteen years on the Board.
As our Remuneration Policy at the Annual General Meeting this year.
Engineering and Operations Director, and with 30 years service with Keller as an employee, Wolfgang provided valuable technical and We have complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate operational expertise to the Board discussions.
I would like to thank Governance Code 2016 throughout the year the full text of which him personally for his contribution to the Board and for working to can be found at www.
org and the remainder of this report provide a seamless transition for Dr Venu Raju, who was appointed contains the narrative reporting variously required by the Code, the  Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, setting Engineering and Operations Director.
out in greater detail the framework and processes that Keller has in place to ensure the highest levels of corporate governance.
Looking ahead, Ruth Cairnie, Non-executive Director, has indicated to me her intention to retire from the Board after this years Annual Yours faithfully, General Meeting.
After undertaking an external recruitment process,  1 June 2017 as a Non-executive Director.
Eva is a Swedish national, and brings a broad, very international management skillset in the industrial and service sectors to the Board.
Peter Hill CBE As a Board we take our governance responsibilities very seriously.
Chairman At the end of 2016, I carried out an externally facilitated Board evaluation which also involved feedback from the Executive team.
27 February 2017    48 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The role of the Board and its Committees The Board is appointed by shareholders, who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act in the best interests of shareholders as a whole, within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006 and taking into account the interests of all stakeholders.
Ultimate responsibility for the management and long-term success of Keller rests with the Board of Directors.
Board Strategy development, growing shareholder value, oversight and corporate governance Provide entrepreneurial Govern the group within a Approve the groups It delegates authority to The Board has formally leadership of the group, framework of prudent and strategic objectives manage the business to the adopted a schedule of driving it forward for the  Ensurethatsufficient  matters reserved to it for benefit, andhavingregardto, enable risk to be assessed resources are available to also delegates other matters its decision the views of its shareholders and managed to an enable it to meet those to Board Committees and and other stakeholders appropriate level objectives management as appropriate Audit Committee Health, Safety, Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Oversee the groups Environment & Quality Review the composition of Determine the framework, Assists the CEO to develop financialreporting, risk Committee  policy and levels of and implement strategy, management and internal Oversee the Boards progressive refreshing with remuneration of the CEO, operational plans, budgets, control procedures and the responsibilities in relation regard to balance and Executive Directors and policies and procedures, work of its internal and to health and safety, structure as well as senior executives monitor operating and external auditors sustainability and quality succession planning page 59 financialperformance, page 56 and continuous page 54 assess and control risks, improvement matters, prioritise and allocate arising out of the activities resource, monitor of the Company and its competitive forces in each subsidiaries area of operation page 53 page 46 The terms of reference for each of the Boards key Committees, which are reviewed on an annual basis, can be found on our website.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining to the leadership of the Board: Being the ultimate custodian of shareholders interests :and Ensuring appropriate Board composition and succession: Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and : Non-executive Directors.
Setting the Boards agenda: Ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee discussions: Chief Executive .
Officer The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: Formulating strategy proposals for the Board: Leadership of executive management to enable the groups businesses Formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this strategy to deliver the requirements of shareholders: ensuring adequate, will be delivered: well-motivated and incentivised management resources: ensuring  succession planning: and ensuring appropriate business processes.
anditsperformance,  business activities: and The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are quite distinct from each other .
Senior Independent Discusses any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication or through the Chairman.
Director The role of Senior Independent Director provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman.
The Board has agreed that the Senior Independent Director will act as Chairman of the Board in the event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board  Committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
Keller Group plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Leadership Board and Committee meetings and attendance Chairmans induction Peter has spent the past six months familiarising himself Audit HSEQ Nomination Remuneration with Keller and its people.
His tailored induction programme Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee has included: Ruth Cairnie 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 Roy Franklin 4 4 1 1 Spending time with our corporate lawyers, our auditors and Chris Girling 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 4 4 brokers both prior to joining, as part of his due diligence on 2 Keller, and after appointment, to further his understanding Peter Hill 4 4 1 1 of our key risks and opportunities.
James Hind 6 6 A formal induction pack on appointment which included key Alain information on Kellers corporate governance framework: its Michaelis 6 6 shareholders, customers and the general contractors we work Wolfgang with::and, our Sondermann 6 6 products and solutions.
First hand exposure to our markets, business units and senior Nancy Tuor management through visits to our Divisional headquarters in Moore 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 4 4 the US, EMEA and APAC and meetings with the Divisional Paul Withers 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 4 4 senior management teams.
Attending a number of sites 1 Peter Hill superseded Roy Franklin as Chairman on 26 July 2016. globally to see Keller in action on key projects and meet local 2 Peter Hill was appointed to the Board on 24 May 2016 and as Chairman from management.
 May 2016 where Peter had the opportunity to meet the groups Board diversity top 70 senior leaders and listen to management presentations Keller continues to be supportive of the need for diversity on its setting out the new group strategy, our new organisational Board to provide the necessary range of background, experience, model and the leadership priorities for the next 18 months.
values and perspectives to optimise the decision-making process.
We note the recent report by the Parker Review Committee on ethnic diversity on UK Boards and the Hampton Alexander Review, focused on senior women below the company board.
Ethnicity and gender are important aspects of diversity to which the Chairman and the Nomination Committee must pay due regard when deciding upon the most appropriate composition of the Board and in considering wider Executive succession planning.
The Board has established a range of backgrounds, capabilities and experiences that are critical for the overall Board composition and this forms the key objective and basis for the search and assessment of candidates for future positions.
Within this context, in the ongoing process of refreshing the Board, the Company continues to encourage and welcome interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Boards diversity.
Against this overriding objective, the Company does not currently propose to Marc Woods, Paralympian and motivational speaker right, at Kellers Global set targets for the percentage of women or other aspects of Leadership Conference 2016, with Alain Michaelis left and Peter Hill centre.
diversity on its Board in future years.
The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, Directors conflicts of interests comprises 25% women two women: six men 25% at 29 February Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation 2016 two women: six men.
Within the Keller group, our overall where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that senior management population comprises 11.4% women, our conflicts, , withKellersinterests.
TheAct engineering contract manager capability comprises 8% women and  women employees account for 9% of the organisation as a whole.
TheArticlesof Professional development Association give the Directors authority to approve such situations On appointment, Directors are provided with induction training and  information about the group, the role of the Board and the matters dealt with.
To address this issue, at the commencement of each reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of Board meeting, the Board considers its register of interests and  gives, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
This is supplemented by meetings with the Companys legal and other professional advisers, and, where appropriate, visits There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide to key locations and meetings with certain senior executives to .
First, only develop the Directors understanding of the business.
Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the ,  decision, the Directors must act in a way that they consider, in good continually updated on the groups business, its markets, social faith, will be most likely to promote Kellers success.
The Directors  are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if the industry in which it operates, including changes to the legal .
 and governance environment and the obligations on themselves been followed throughout the year and the Board considers the as Directors.
50 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Effectiveness Finance Directors and Directors independence Evaluated and approved: The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four other The three-year and annual business plan and budget Non-executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names The approach and process enabling it to make the viability of the Directors at the date of this report, together with their statement see page 41 of the Strategic report for the process biographical details, are set out on pages 44 and 45.
All of these and the statement Directors served throughout the year with the exception of Roy The approach and process allowing it to make the Going Franklin, who served as Non-executive Director and Chairman until Concern statement 26 July 2016 and Peter Hill who was appointed a Non-executive The Class 2 transaction which saw Keller acquire a warehouse Director and Chairman Designate on 24 May 2016. in Avonmouth see page 57 of the Audit Committee report for further details The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help Reviewed the Companys forecast net debt levels, facility to develop proposals on strategy and bring strong independent headroom and covenants judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
 Periodically, the Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Apart from formal contact at Operational performance Board meetings, there is regular informal contact between the Directors.
Attended an overseas Board visit in Warsaw, where they held meetings with the members of the Divisional and local Ruth Cairnie, Chris Girling, Nancy Tuor Moore and Paul Withers are management teams and took part in a site visit all considered to be independent Non-executive Directors.
Peter Hill Received and considered strategic and operational was independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on performance presentations from the Presidents of the US, 26July2016.
 APAC and EMEA Divisions detailed on page 45.
 following their appointment and to annual re-election thereafter, in accordance with the Code.
In 2016 an external Board evaluation was carried out by Lintstock, , andfacilitatedbythe Chairman and the Company Secretary.
In addition to members of the Board participating, input was also sought on the Boards performance and interaction with the Executives from the Executive management team.
Further details on the evaluation and the resulting themes for development can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 54.
  to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board participates in a site visit in Warsaw, Poland in April 2016, supervised by the local management team.
Information and support  sufficient,  Risk and are provided with all necessary resources and expertise to Considered the principal risks and uncertainties which could  impact the group inaneffectivemanner.
Reviewed the risk management framework with particular regard to its impact on making the viability statement For each Board and Committee meeting, Directors are provided with a tailored Board pack at least one week prior to the meeting.
Governance To improve the delivery and security of Board papers, the Company Agreed the terms of Roy Franklins retirement as Chairman from continues to use an electronic system allowing the Board to easily the Company access information, irrespective of geographic location.
Directors Agreed the appointment of Peter Hill as Non-executive Director regularly receive additional information from the Company between  forfurther Board meetings, including a monthly group performance update.
details on each of the arrangements please refer to the Directors Should a Director be unable to attend a meeting, they will be remuneration report on pages 59 to 78 provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting Reviewed the outcomes of an external Board evaluation and have the opportunity to discuss issues arising directly with the Approved revised Board delegated authorities Chairman and Chief Executive.
Approved a new Code of Business Conduct Approved a new Company Share Dealing Policy and procedures Board focus areas in 2016 Strategy 2016 Board meetings time spent Reviewed and approved: The groups strategy and strategic levers see page 21 for further details The acquisition and integration plan of Tecnogeo, a 10% 10% 25% Risk Governance Strategy 47% geotechnical engineering business in Brazil 5% Financial and Attended a one day Strategy session to review progress Procedural operational performance against Strategy and agree objectives for 2017-2020 3% People Keller Group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Accountability e Financial reporting Internal control Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of , balancesheets, cashflowsand .
However, such , andsignificant a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of variances are investigated.
failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement f Cash control or loss.
Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash forecasts are prepared to monitor the groups shortand , term cash positions and to control immediate borrowing evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the group, requirements.
which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is g Investments and capital expenditure regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance of , , the Financial Reporting Council.
are referred to the appropriate divisional or group authority level.
 h Internal audit the section headed Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 41 The group has a structured programme of independent, outsourced to 43. audit reviews, covering tendering, operational processes and .
 The principal elements of the internal control framework are as follows: audit of all material business units at least once every four years.
This programme has been carried out by  a Board delegated approvals since 2010.
The programme is approved and monitored by the Audit Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable trail Committee, .
These procedures are relevant across group operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at i Electronic Internal Control Questionnaire EICQ , finally, totheBoard.
Each year, every principal business unit is required to complete an electronic questionnaire responding to whether key internal In 2016, the Board delegated authorities were revised and rolled out .
questionnaires are summarised in a heat map, which is presented to and discussed by the Audit Committee.
The responses to the b Management of project risk questionnaires are also reviewed by  Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the during each internal audit.
j Annual compliance statement ,  Onceayear,  issues are performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority limits systems of internal controls for which they are responsible: and their  compliance with group policies, local laws and regulations: and to associated with the contract and to the total value being bid by Keller,  or any joint venture to which Keller is a party.
Any bids involving an in the past year.
unusually high degree of technical or commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory where we have not k Code of Business Conduct previously worked, must be approved at a senior level within the The groups Code of Business Conduct and ten group policies operating company.
set out the standards with regards to conducting business in all business units worldwide.
All business units are required to selfOn average, our contracts have a duration of around six weeks but certify that they are compliant with the groups Code of Business larger contracts may extend over several months.
The performance Conduct and with the Code is considered as part of the of contracts is monitored and reported by most business units on a independent reviews.
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete During 2016 a revised Code was launched to all employees and assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration online training rolled out.
l Whistleblowing procedures Further detail on the management of project risk is provided in the Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about section headed Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 41 to 43. malpractice at the earliest possible stage.
In 2016 we introduced a new externally facilitated whistleblowing hotline service for c Health and safety employees.
Any issues raised under our procedures are thoroughly Regular reporting, monitoring and reviews of health and safety investigated and reported back to the Audit Committee.
matters are made to the HSEQ Committee and the Board.
 d Budgeting and forecasting Directors review on pages 16 to 19.
There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approvedbytheBoard.
Inaddition, forecastsare prepared for the two subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are regularly updated during the year.
52 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Committee report Dear stakeholder It is my pleasure to present the Health, Safety, Environment & .
The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year.
 attendance at these meetings is shown on page 50.
The Committee was particularly exercised this year by a number of serious incidents across the group, and focused on managements understanding of Nancy Tuor Moore the root cause analysis reports, together with shared learning and Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Committee improvement actions from these events across the business.
M anagement has carried out an intensive review of the As I reported last year, in 2015 two employees died on a site in Malaysia.
Following a thorough internal investigation, validated by groups risk assessment processes.
an independent expert and overseen by the local regulator, the , resultinginafine.
Composition of the Committee Management has carried out an intensive review of the groups risk Nancy Tuor Moore Chris Girling assessment processes and subsequently rolled out improvements Ruth Cairnie Paul Withers to every business unit.
For full biographies see pages 44 and 45 Despite managements resolve to achieve its goal of zero injuries, this year the Committee received reports on the unfortunate Role of the Committee deaths of an employee on a site in Texas, USA, and of a sub-contractor  on a site in Slovakia.
Those fatalities continue to be investigated by responsibilities in relation to health, safety, environment, and local regulators.
We are committed to our zero harm policy and take other sustainability matters, arising out of the activities of the any loss of life seriously.
As we await the formal outcomes of the Company and its subsidiaries.
It is also responsible for monitoring regulatory investigations, management has conducted its own and reviewing the groups Health and Safety Framework in line review and implemented corrective actions in our businesses with applicable laws and regulations.
The Committee evaluates across the group.
and oversees the quality and integrity of the Companys reporting to external stakeholders concerning sustainability We did see overall improved performance in safety in 2016 across the matters.
group, and especially from the APAC Division, who have worked hard as a team, as they reorganise and consolidate the Division, to ensure that safety receives the appropriate focus in their business units.
Highlights of the Committees activities in 2016 2016 Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Further detail on the Companys HSEQ performance in 2016 can be Committee meetings time spent % found in our Sustainability report on pages 36 to 40.
Strategy HSEQ 54 Corporate governance Sustainability 16 The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during Governance 15 the year, are available on the groups website www.
com and Procedural 7 on request from the Company Secretary.
Quality 7 The membership of the Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee may invite members Approved the Companys Sustainability framework.
of the senior management to attend meetings where it is felt Approved the integration of quality and continuous appropriate and the Chairman, Chief Executive and the group improvement into the health and safety function and the Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Director regularly attend Committees remit.
Divisional Presidents are required to Monitored progress against the years Safety targets and attend to report to the Committee in the event of a major safety reviewed the root cause analyses for serious incidents over incident or near-miss occurrence and other members of the the year.
Executive Committee may be invited to attend on occasion.
Reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee.
 During the year, an external evaluation was carried out on the evaluation process which, for the year under review, was Committees performance, facilitated by the Chairman and the conducted externally.
Further to the review, it was concluded that, consistent with the Code and its own terms of reference, the HSEQ .
Nancy Tuor Moore Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Committee 27 February 2017 Keller Group plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee report Succession planning We have continued to develop and monitor succession plans at the Board level.
The length of tenure for Non-executive Directors is two terms of three years each, to be followed by annual renewal of up to threeyears,  planning and timing.
Board effectiveness and skills , theNomination Peter Hill CBE Committee activities included: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Consideration of the number of Executive and Non-executive T he Nomination Committee continues to work to Directors on the Board and whether the balance is appropriate balance the skills and experience of the Board members .
Reviewing the balance of industry knowledge, relevant to meet the changing needs of the business.
experience, skills and diversity on the Board.
 Composition of the Committee Directors remain independent.
Peter Hill Chairman from Chris Girling 26 July 2016 Nancy Tuor Moore This year, the Board conducted an external evaluation of its own Roy Franklin Chairman until Paul Withers performance.
It was conducted by Lintstock, the London-based 26 July 2016 ,  Ruth Cairnie Secretary.
In addition to members of the Board participating, input was also sought on the Boards performance and interaction with For full biographies see pages 44 and 45 the Executives from the Executive management team.
The outcomes from this review were discussed as part of the Board Role of the Committee meeting in December 2016.
The Board agreed that, overall, the Review and recommend the structure, size and composition Board and Committee structures were working well, and a number of the Board and its Committees.
It is also responsible for : succession planning of the Board and Executive management.
 Increased discussion on the new strategic levers, to be addressed Board and its Committees.
by the Strategy Directors facilitation of key discussion topics in the forward agenda: Highlights of the Committees activities in 2016 Increased access to the Executive management team by the Board, to be addressed through more regular attendance at Board 2016 Nomination Committee meetings time spent % meetings going forward: and Succession planning 57 Increased focus on talent development in the Executive Procedural 29 management population, to be addressed by the Chief Executive Governance 14 and Human Resources Director in 2017.
 Succession planning for the Chairman of the Board.
committed to their role: the Board continues to work well and has an Appointment and reappointment of Board members.
appropriate and diverse mix of skills and industry knowledge.
The Monitored the length of tenure of the Non-executive Directors.
Directors collectively bring a range of expertise and experience of Reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee.
, whichencourage constructive and challenging debate around the boardroom table.
The Nomination Committee continues to work to balance the skills and experience of the Board members to meet the changing needs Dear shareholder of the business.
The mix of skills keeps us relevant and up-to-date Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee for the year with the market and further details on the Boards breadth of skills ended31December2016.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
During the year, the Committee met twice and attendance at these meetings is shown on page 50.
This year, succession planning for the Chairman was a particular area of focus for the Nomination Committee.
Paul Withers, Senior Independent Director, led the process and his report is set out on page 55.
Ruth Cairnie completed her second three-year term as at May 2016.
Consequently, the Committee considered her independence prior to recommending to the Board that her reappointment should be extended for one year.
54 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Diversity The Committee continues to encourage and welcome interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Boards diversity.
The Boards overriding objective is to continue to provide , therefore,  recommend for appointment only the most appropriate candidates to the Board.
There are, therefore, no formal targets set for female or other aspects of diversity at Board level.
For further information on Boardroom diversity and diversity more generally at Keller, please Paul Withers refer to page 50.
Senior Independent Director Non-executive appointments and time commitments In making recommendations to the Board on Non-executive Our objective was to ensure an orderly Director appointments, the Nomination Committee will consider succession process.
the expected time commitment of the proposed Non-executive Director, and other commitments they already have to ensure that .
Dear Shareholder Roy Franklin announced his intention to retire as Chairman and Prior to accepting any additional commitments, Non-executive from the Board in 2016.
As the Senior Independent Director, Directorswill, inthefirstinstance,  I was asked to lead the search and selection process for a new of the Board, or in the case of the Chairman, with the Senior Chairman on behalf of the Nomination Committee and the Independent Director and the Chief Executive.
Agreement of the Board, assisted by the Group Company Secretary.
  Our objective was to ensure an orderly succession process.
Below I set out how that process was managed: Given Alains appointment as the new Chief Executive in 2015, Independence and re-election to the Board Roy was keen to achieve an orderly handover during 2016, The composition of the Board is reviewed annually by the   on the Board took place.
of skills, experience and knowledge.
Roy spoke individually to each of the Non-executive Directors, including me, to see if anybody wished to be a candidate and The Committee conducted a review of the independence of Ruth came to the conclusion that an external appointment Cairnie in the year as her three-year appointment was due to expire was required.
Ruth was not present during the Committees The Committee worked with the Group Company Secretary discussion.
Having conducted its review, the Committee was , seekinginput  from Roy and the Executive Directors to ensure alignment.
Ruths appointment should be extended for a further year.
Basedontheprofileand Corporate governance criteria selection, together with individual interviews with the The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during Board, Zygos determined a long list of candidates for review.
the year, are available on the groups website www.
com and After discussion in the Committee and with Roy, a shortlist was on request from the Group Company Secretary.
put forward to me for which detailed references were sought by Zygos and soundings taken from our advisers.
Only the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are members of Agreed candidates were invited to meet with the Committee the Committee.
No one other than a member of the Committee is and with the Chief Executive, and the preferred candidate was entitled to be present at its meetings.
members of the senior management to attend meetings where it is The timing for handover was agreed with Peter and Roy, with a felt appropriate and Alain Michaelis, Chief Executive, attended short but well-ordered transition period.
certain meetings during the year.
We were delighted to welcome Peter to the Board in May 2016 During the year, an external evaluation was carried out on the and as Chairman from July 2016.
Committees performance, facilitated by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Further to the review, it was concluded that, consistent with the Code and its own terms of reference, the Paul Withers Nomination Committee is discharging its obligations in an Senior Independent Director effectivemanner.
27 February 2017 In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Board will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2017, with the exception of myself, PeterHill, .
Peter Hill CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2017 Keller Group plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our .
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 50.
To ensure compliance with the Code, the Committees membership is limited to Independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Chris Girling Controller and the Companys external auditors KPMG LLP KPMG Chairman of the Audit Committee normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
, in their role as internal auditors, attend at I n the year ahead we will continue to ensure the groups least two meetings of the Committee each year.
On two occasions, the Committee met privately with KPMG without management risk management and internal controls remain robust.
being present and I also met with  without management present.
Composition of the Committee  Chris Girling Nancy Tuor Moore  Ruth Cairnie Paul Withers the Code, to perform the role of Chairman, having previously held For full biographies see pages 44 and 45 .
Iamalsoa Chartered Accountant and I continue to chair the Audit Committee for another public limited company.
Role of the Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing internal risk The Audit Committee collectively has the contracting and , financialreporting international skills and experience required to fully discharge its and appropriate external audit arrangements.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any , Highlights of the Committees activities in 2016 accounting or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, .
2016 Audit Committee meetings time spent % Financial Governance 82 Activities of the Committee Procedural 6 During the year under review, the Committee has continued to Administrative 11  reporting, internal control and risk management processes and the performance, .
report describes the Committees main activities since my last Reviewed the groups risk including Going Concern and report in 2015.
and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal  control and risk management system, details of which are described external auditors.
Reviewed the groups whistleblowing policy and procedures.
Reviewed and agreed the process for refresh of the Code of The table below summarises the key agenda items covered at the Business Conduct.
Committees meetings during this period: Reviewed and approved the groups tax strategy.
Theevaluation Review a report on the groups system of internal control and its process for the year under review was facilitated by an external  consultant.
Reviewed the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
Review a report from management on their process for assessing the groups going concern and viability over a three-year period and report the outcomes of the assessment to the Board.
Approve a rolling four-year programme of internal audit reviews  receive reports on all reviews carried out during the year.
Review the need for an internal audit function.
Review and approve KPMGs engagement letter and audit fee.
 and recommend them for approval to the Board.
,  and the independence and objectivity of KPMG.
Review the groups policy on employment of KPMG for non-audit services,  Governance Code and revised Auditing and Ethical Standards.
Review the groups policy on the employment of former employees of KPMG.
56 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements , suchasaccounting Valuation of non-current assets held for sale standards and their practical consequences for Keller.
During the year, following a contract dispute the group acquired Review and approve the groups tax strategy, approach to the .
management of tax risk and tax policy and procedures.
Review the groups whistleblowing policy and monitor the The value of the property has been determined using an external procedures in place for employees to be able to raise matters of professional valuation performed in accordance with RICS possible impropriety.
standards and the full Board received a presentation from the Agree the process for refreshing the groups Code of Business .
 Conduct and its programme for implementation.
underlying the valuation is the rental yield.
the results of this valuation and the implied rental yield in comparison to typical UK commercial property yields.
The Committee considers The Audit Committee also reviewed the Companys processes it a reasonable measure of fair value at the balance sheet date given for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts and the the history of the property.
outcomes of those processes to ensure that it was in a position to recommend to the Board that the 2016 Annual Report and The Committee also examined the disclosure of items which are Accounts satisfy the requirement of being fair, balanced and described as non-underlying and or exceptional in the consolidated understandable.
The following processes are in place to provide income statement.
After consideration of compliance with this assurance: emerging practice in the area of alternative performance measures in conjunction with KPMG, the Committee agreed that the revised Co-ordination and review of the Annual Report and Accounts presentation of exceptional and other non-underlying items in 2016 performed within an exacting time-frame which ran alongside is appropriate.
the formal audit process undertaken by KPMG.
Guidance issued to contributors at an operational level.
  Committee meetings that review the full-year and interim results.
factual content of the information within the Annual Report At these meetings, the Committee discusses with KPMG the and Accounts.
reasonableness of the assumptions made by management in Comprehensive review by senior management and external arriving at their estimates and judgements underpinning the advisers to ensure consistency and overall balance.
Inaddition, duringsuchmeetings, the Committee meets with KPMG without management being present.
,  correspondence received from the Financial Reporting Councils Internal audit Corporate Reporting Review team in relation to the Companys  PwC continues to provide a structured accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The correspondence programme of independent, outsourced reviews of all material  business units at least once every four years.
During 2016, the to the satisfaction of the Corporate Reporting Review team.
Audit Committee received and considered reports from PwC which detailed the progress against the agreed work programme.
Theyrelatedtothe which together represented approximately 25% of the groups  revenue for the year.
It included assessments of the Bencor and estimates and judgements in connection with: Austral businesses acquired in 2015: the McKinney and Suncoast businesses in the US: the Keller Foundations business in Australia: Accounting for construction contracts and Keller Poland.
Although there remains scope to improve the The main factors considered when making those estimates and formality of certain controls in certain businesses to ensure they judgements include the percentage of work completed at the ,  balance sheet date on longer-term contracts, the costs of the work .
InDecember, theCommittee required to complete the contract and the outcome of claims and  variations raised against customers and claims raised against the discussed them and any action plans arising with management, group by customers or third parties.
The Committee reviewed a concluding that the internal audit arrangements were appropriate report prepared by management on the key estimates and andeffective.
judgements relating to construction contracts having a material impact on the groups result for the year and agreed with the External audit conclusions of this report.
The Committee places great importance on ensuring there are high  Carrying value of goodwill and complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for  Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive  Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 .
 the CMA Audit Order throughout the year.
amount based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of assumptions, the most important being the KPMG, ,  forecast revenues, operating margins and the discount rate applied.
 The key assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations are set 1994.
As set out in our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, KPMG .
TheCommitteehas were reappointed as the Companys Auditor in 2014 subsequent to reviewed the key assumptions used for all impairment tests of a robust retendering of the external audit process.
Following the material goodwill balances.
In particular, this review has focused introduction of the UK and EU guidance on mandatory auditor on Keller Canada where there is the most uncertainty surrounding rotation, the Committee anticipates retendering the external audit the projections used in the value-in-use calculation.
again for the 2019 year-end, the year after the Companys existing .
Keller Group plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report continued The Committee has undertaken an assessment of the Corporate Governance  The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during statements.
This assessment focused on: the calibre of the audit the year, are available on the groups website www.
com and firm includingreputation, , size, resources on request from the Company Secretary.
and geographic spread : its quality control processes: the quality of the team assigned to the audit: the audit scope, fee and audit A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at communications: and the governance and independence of the the Annual General Meeting to be held in May 2017. auditfirm.
As a Committee we are continually looking at opportunities to There are a number of checks and controls in place for safeguarding  the objectivity and independence of KPMG.
These include open opportunities of the markets in which the group operates.
During lines of communication and reporting between KPMG and the the year, an external evaluation was carried out on the Committees Committee and, when presenting their independence letter, performance, facilitated by the Chairman and the Company KPMG LLP discuss with the Committee their internal process for Secretary.
Further to the review, it was concluded that, consistent ensuring independence.
with the Code and its own terms of reference, the Audit Committee .
A detailed assessment of the amounts and relationship of audit and non-audit fees and services is carried out each year and the Audit I meet regularly with both KPMG and the Finance Director to discuss Committee has developed and implemented a policy regulating the key issues relevant to the Committees work.
Ensuring these lines placing of non-audit services to KPMG, which should prevent any of communication are open and working well is vital to the success impairment of independence and ensure compliance with the of the Committee in carrying out its work.
updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code and revised Auditing and Ethical Standards with regards to non-audit fees.
Any work In the year ahead we will continue to ensure the groups risk awarded to KPMG, other than audit, with a value in excess of 20,000 management and internal controls remain robust.
In addition, once total approved non-audit services exceeds 50,000 in any year, every subsequent service, regardless of Chris Girling amount, requires pre-approval by the Audit Committee Chairman.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Over the last three years, the ratio of non-audit related fees paid 27 February 2017 to the Auditor averaged 37% of the total audit fee.
The ratio of non-audit related fees paid to the Auditor in 2016 is 31% of the total audit fee.
These relate predominantly to US tax compliance services.
Going forward, PwC has been engaged as the Companys tax advisers.
Also, as part of its annual review of KPMGs independence, the Committee reviews the level and nature of entertainment between KPMG and management.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee has a key role in ensuring appropriate governance and challenge around risk management.
It also sets the tone and culture within the organisation regarding risk management and internal control.
Key elements of the groups system of internal control include: .
An organisational and management Board structure with clearly .
The group aims to continuously strengthen its risk management processes, with the involvement of the Audit Committee to ensure these processes are embedded throughout the organisation.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the groups system of controls includingfinancial, operational,  .
However, any such system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
Further information on the groups risks is detailed on pages 41 to 43.
58 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
