Letter from the chair of the Audit Committee Overseeing continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations and reporting requirements, including all relevant regulations of the FCA, JFSC and EU legislation, such as the market abuse regulations, through regular reporting Reviewing and monitoring the Groups data and information governance project Considering whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable During the year, the Committee held seven meetings, which were also attended by the investment management team representatives including Mary Ricks, the Investment Manager Directors, the Head of Finance and the General Counsel, Europe and the Company secretary, as well as KPMG, the Companys external auditor, in certain instances.
Simon Radford Audit Committee Chair Terms of reference The Audit Committees written terms of reference, which are reviewed on a periodic basis, are available on the Companys Committee members and attendance website.
eu about-us board-andMember meetings in 2016 governance board-committees Simon Radford 7 7 Mark McNicholas 7 7 Committee effectiveness During the year, our externally facilitated Board evaluation Charlotte Valeur 7 7 concluded that the Audit Committee was effective in fulfilling its duties.
This confirms my personal view that the Committee Dear Shareholder plays an important role in ensuring that the appropriate I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report which governance environment, underpinned by the appropriate risk summarises our work over the past year.
management, control and assurance processes, is embedded throughout the business.
Committee responsibilities and how they were discharged The main matters with which we dealt, and on which we Financial reporting and significant accounting judgements reported to the Board, during 2016 were as follows: For the year under review, we monitored the integrity of the Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial financial information published in the interim and annual statements and reviewing significant financial reporting consolidated financial statements, as well as quarterly business judgements updates, and considered the extent to which suitable accounting Review and approval of the annual audit plan of the external policies have been adopted, presented and disclosed.
In making auditors, and discussion of reports from the external auditors our assessment, we received and considered reports from the following their review and audit of financial statements Investment Manager, the audit strategy and focus of the Review of the independence and objectivity of the external external auditors, and the methodology adopted by the Groups auditor, with particular regard to non-audit fees external valuers.
Taking into account information from these Assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in respect of activities, and with input from KPMG, the Committee carrying out a robust assessment of the principal risks considered whether the Investment Manager had made suitable affecting the Group and reviewing and reporting on the and appropriate estimates and judgements in the process of systems and key elements of risk management as they affect applying the Groups accounting policies.
the Group Reviewing internal controls and considering the need for an See KPMGs audit report on pages 82 to 84 for internal audit function specific to the Company further details.
The appointment of third party valuers, the valuation methodology adopted and approval of the valuations of the Groups investments The declaration and payment of quarterly dividends, and monitoring the regulatory solvency requirements Reviewing and monitoring the implementation of the Groups financial policy with particular focus on secured and unsecured debt, the impact of foreign exchange and cash management, and the continued ability of the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing financial statements Reviewing the Groups tax strategy 70 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The area of significant judgement considered by the Committee and how this was addressed in relation to the financial statements is set out below: Matter Action Property valuation Property valuation is central to the We reviewed the outcomes of the valuation process throughout the year and business and is a significant area of discussed the details of each bi-annual valuation with the Investment Manager at the judgement.
Although valued by an Board meetings.
independent firm of valuers, CBRE, the The chair of the Audit Committee held discussions with CBRE to discuss the process, valuation is inherently subjective.
Errors in assumptions, independence and communication with the Investment Manager.
valuation could have a material impact on As this is the main area of audit focus, the auditors contacted the valuers directly and the Companys net asset value.
independently of the Investment Manager and the Company.
We also received detailed quarterly reports on this matter from the Investment Manager, and reports from KPMG as part of their interim and year end reporting to the Audit Committee.
On the basis of the above, we concluded that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
External valuations and valuers Fair, balanced and understandable FBU The bi-annual external valuation of the Groups portfolio is a key In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate determinant of the Groups balance sheet, overall business Governance Code, we examined, on behalf of the Board, performance and year end results, as well as being pivotal to whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, determining certain aspects of the Investment Managers balanced and understandable, and provided the information remuneration.
Although property valuations are based on the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, consideration of third party, market and internal evidence, there performance, business model and strategy.
is a subjective element that requires valuers to make significant judgements and assumptions based on their experience.
Given In doing so, we applied the same approach adopted in previous the importance of external valuations to the assessment of the years and reviewed an advanced draft of the report for review Groups and Investment Managers performance, we take a and comment, and also gathered an understanding of the rigorous approach to monitoring and reviewing the valuation governance processes involved its compilation.
This included process and the effectiveness of the Groups valuers.
taking into account that: Individual sections of the annual report and financial For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Committee statements are drafted by appropriate members of the performed a half-yearly review of the effectiveness of the investment management team, with regular review meetings Groups external valuations, focusing on a qualitative analysis of to ensure consistency of the whole document capital values, in terms of market testing, yield benchmarking, Detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the annual availability of comparable market evidence and major outliers to report and financial statements are undertaken by the sub-sector movements.
The external valuers presented directly investment management team to the Committee at the half-year and annual results, including Advanced drafts are reviewed by the Audit Committee and confirmation of their valuation process, marketing conditions the auditors on a timely basis to allow sufficient consideration and significant judgements made.
The Companys external and are discussed with the investment management team auditor also reviewed the valuations and valuation process, prior to consideration by the Board having full access to the valuers to determine that due process Discussions are arranged with those in the investment has been followed using appropriate information, and reported management team who were responsible for preparing, its conclusions to the Committee.
compiling and verifying the content and, with input from advisors, the Administrator and auditors, ensuring that FRC Corporate Reporting Review team consistent reporting and appropriate links existed between In accordance with the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, we key messages and sections of the annual report are pleased to confirm that the Company received a letter from An independent review, challenge and assessment of the the FRC Corporate Reporting Review team FRC Review Team annual report is conducted by a governance specialist in July 2016, informing us that it had reviewed the Companys consulting firm, FutureValue, and by our external legal advisors 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The letter confirmed that the FRC Review Team did not have any questions or queries that it Following this review, we recommended to the Board that, wished to raise with us.
The FRC Review Team asked us to in our view, the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended make clear that its work is based solely on published reports and 31 December 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and accounts and so does not benefit from a detailed knowledge of understandable, and provides the information necessary for our our business or an understanding of the underlying transactions shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, entered into.
The Board subsequently considered the report as a whole and discussed the reports tone, balance and language for compliance with these standards.
The Boards statement on fair, balanced and understandable is made on page 61.
71 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Letter from the chair of the Audit Committee continued True and fair view Risk management and internal control We have reviewed the Groups consolidated financial Throughout the year, the Investment Manager effectively carried statements which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS out its risk management functions, monitored the broader and applicable company law.
The Groups financial model is market conditions and the risks and challenges relevant to the underpinned by the application of prudent, appropriate Group, and made periodic reports to the Committee.
In addition accounting policies chosen by the Directors to ensure that the to assessing the impact of the Brexit vote, with appropriate input financial statements present a true and fair view of the state of from the Investment Manager, the Committee considered other the Groups affairs.
The continued appropriateness of the threats such as cyber-security, volatility in foreign exchange accounting policies and the methods of applying those policies rates and hedging, new and potential changes in taxation in practice are reviewed at least annually.
legislation, as well as the broader market cycle and property trends that impact our business strategy and execution.
We The significant accounting policies, which are consistent ensured that the Investment Manager properly categorised with last years, are set out on pages 92 to 98. these risks in the risk register of the Company, that the potential impact to the Group was understood by the Board, and that In order to assist shareholders and other users of the Groups appropriate resources were allocated by the Investment financial statements, supplementary commentary has been Manager to provide assurance to us that agreed mitigating provided within the notes to the Groups consolidated financial actions were implemented.
The additional commentary addresses information regularly sought by investors, analysts and other stakeholders, Following the extensive external risk assessment exercise as well as providing further insight into the Groups key undertaken in 2015, with input from the Investment Manager, accounting policies, financial model and important movements we identified certain strategic assessment projects that could in income statement and balance sheet items during the year.
benefit the Groups risk management structure, two of which were initiated by the Investment Manager in 2016.
Viability statement On behalf of the Board, we have undertaken an assessment of We instructed the Investment Managers legal and compliance the Groups viability for the next three years, with reference to team to undertake an assessment of the Groups regulatory the Groups current position and prospects, principal risks and compliance controls, with the aim of addressing and mitigating changing competitive landscape.
This three-year period has the risk of non-compliance with multi-jurisdictional regulatory been chosen as it primarily aligns with the underlying individual requirements, including the newly implemented market abuse asset-level business plans and cash flow forecasts, which are regulations, anti-bribery laws, data protection, environmental prepared on a oneand three-year basis, and with the Groups and HSE legislation.
The project involved: a detailed review of strategic review covering, amongst others, net operating the existing compliance systems, including the procedures to income, cash flows, dividend cover and LTV metrics, which determine the applicability of current and upcoming law and also extends over a three-year period.
In addition, the three-year regulation in Group operations, and ensure ongoing compliance: period captures sufficient reversionary risk as the Groups monitoring the Groups regulated structures in Jersey, Ireland WAULT is close to seven years.
and Italy: a resource assessment of the compliance teams assisting the Group: evaluation of training needs: and delivery of Sensitivity analysis has been applied to reflect the potential bespoke training to meet development needs.
The assessment impact of one, or a combination of, the principal risks and report concluded that the Groups approach to compliance and uncertainties on the Groups profitability, liquidity and solvency, reporting was effective: the processes and training programmes business model and future performance.
In particular, the the Group has in place to ensure compliance with ongoing analysis considered: the impact of reducing occupational regulations are adequate and the procedures deployed to assist demand on revenue, costs, interest cover and dividend levels: with horizon-mapping are effective.
the impact of valuation falls on loan-to-value covenants: the impact of foreign exchange movements on net asset value and Separately, an initial review of the third-party property managers cash flows: the mitigants in the Groups business profile: and of the Groups assets was also undertaken this year.
This any consequential legal, regulatory and other changes in the involved the completion of detailed questionnaires and Groups key markets that might impact the Groups viability over interviews with the asset management and finance functions the three-year viability period.
of the Investment Manager group, as well as preparation of a SWOT analysis for each service provider.
Recommendations For further details on principal risks and uncertainties concerning better communication and further quality assurance go to pages 35 to 40. procedures will be implemented during 2017.
The Boards viability statement is made on page 61.
72 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information In addition, we authorised the Investment Manager to conduct On the basis of this assessment, we have recommended to the an assessment of the Groups data governance and information Board that KPMG be reappointed as the external auditor to the management processes.
The project was aimed at identifying Group for the year ending 31 December 2017 and that a and minimising errors, omissions and inaccuracies in data used resolution to this effect be proposed to shareholders at the for both internal and external reporting, which can undermine AGM to be held on 26 April 2017. the integrity of management information used for decisionmaking, and at reducing the risk of losing information considered We intend to review the performance of the Companys external highly sensitive to the Company.
The assessment results auditors annually and to follow the EU Directive and Regulation concluded that the Group has in place formal, effective on Audit Reform, even though this does not apply to a non-EU processes for ensuring accuracy and consistency of financial and Company.
The external audit contract has not been put out to non-financial operational reporting by the Company, and tender since the Companys IPO in 2014.
Although there is no recommended ongoing engagement with, and monitoring of, immediate intention to tender the audit contract, the Company third party service providers who release Company information.
will re-tender at the latest by the 2024 year-end, in line with the transitional arrangements regarding the competitive tender of Internal audit external audit contracts applicable to UK-listed companies.
At our meeting in December 2016, we discussed whether there Following professional guidelines, the audit partner rotates after was a need to establish a formal internal audit function for the five years and this is the third year for the current partner.
It was concluded that, due to the Companys size and externally-managed structure, it currently does not need an Non-audit services internal audit function, but this matter will continue to be kept In 2015, we established a policy regarding non-audit services under review by the Committee.
Although there is no formal that may be provided by KWEs external auditors, which internal audit function, the Group relies heavily on internal audit prohibits KPMG from providing certain categories of work in line and control support services provided by the Investment with the relevant guidance on independence, such as the ethical Manager group.
This is further supplemented by a rolling standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and EU rules.
programme of review of key controls, which is conducted Other categories of work, such as transaction advisory services, through a combination of the external audit process and reviews including tax structuring and financial and tax due diligence, by members of the investment management team and or may, if pre-approved by the Committee, be provided by the external advisors, as appropriate.
We will continue to consider auditors, where there is compelling commercial rationale for the engagement of external advisors to undertake individual appointing the auditor and the overall audit versus non-audit fee assessment projects on specific risk areas where it is felt that levels do not exceed specified levels.
this is necessary or where in our view the Investment Manager is conflicted.
As a Committee, we have reviewed the provision of non-audit services by KPMG in 2016.
For the year ended 31 December External audit and auditors 2016, KPMG was paid approximately 0.6 million in fees for As part of our review of the scope and results of the audit, audit and audit related services 2015: 0.6 million and during the year we considered and approved KPMGs plan for approximately 0.1 million in fees for non-audit services 2015: the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 0.7 million.
The fees for non-audit services related primarily to 31 December 2016.
We also held private meetings with the provision of tax advisory services 0.1 million involving the external auditors and the chair met privately with the ongoing tax structuring and implementation advice in connection external auditors before the Board meetings.
At the conclusion with our Luxembourg entities.
The non-audit services of the audit, KPMG did not highlight any issues to us which undertaken by KPMG in 2016 were a continuation of services would cause KPMG to qualify its audit report, nor did it highlight being provided by KPMG in 2015, prior to implementation of the any fundamental internal control weaknesses.
KPMG has issued non-audit services policy described above.
Full details of the fees paid to the auditor for audit services, audit See KPMGs audit report on pages 82 to 84. related services and non-audit services are set out in Note 39 to the consolidated financial statements.
As part of the review of auditor independence and effectiveness, KPMG have confirmed that they are independent Notwithstanding such services, the Committee considers of the Group and have complied with relevant auditing KPMG to be independent of the Group.
We do not consider that standards.
In evaluating KPMG, we have taken into the provision of such non-audit services is a threat to the consideration the standing, skills and experience of the firm and objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit the audit team.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of services by KPMG.
the audit process through the reporting it receives from KPMG in respect of the year-end annual report and financial Simon Radford statements.
We remain satisfied that KPMG continues to Audit Committee Chair provide effective independent challenge in carrying out its responsibilities.
73 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
