Corporate Governance Statement Nomination Committee report Nomination Committee allocation of time % Phil White Chair Non-Executive Director representation Senior management successionplanning Formally appointing Non-Executive Directors Dear shareholder, Review of Board composition I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report During the year, we reviewed the Boards composition to ensure for 2016. thatit has the correct balance of skills, experience and knowledge following recent significant acquisitions and in light of the Groups This report provides a summary of the Committees activities plans for future growth.
Members of the Board have many years during 2016.
I will be available to answer any questions of experience obtained through their senior management roles abouttheCommittee and how it operates at the AGM within various organisations.
The table on page 57 indicates on18November 2016. certain of the areas of particular expertise of the Non-Executive Directors, complementing the skills and experience of the Role Executive Directors.
The role of the Committee includes: We concluded that Bev Dew, Nigel Brook, Nigel Turner and Claudio Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Veritiero, each of whom was appointed to the Board during the 2015 Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard financial year, had settled in well to their respective roles.
toany changes: Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and The Committee previously identified a need to appoint a Nondiversity on the Board: and Executive Director who had recent or currentexecutive experience, Considering succession planning for the Board and other senior had worked in contracting or similar businesses and had executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities experience of managing a business with international operations.
facing the Group and the skills and expertise needed on the Justin Atkinson was identified by Russell Reynolds Associates Boardin the future.
Justin was considered to have the appropriate range of skills and was appointed to the Board with The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the effect from 1 October 2015.
The Committee was satisfied that, Companys website at http: www.
when providing its advice, Russell Reynolds did not have any Composition and meeting attendance other connections with theCompany.
The members of the Committee at 30 June 2016 were: We also concluded that the Board would benefit from the appointment Phil White Chair of another Non-Executive Director with recent or current executive Justin Atkinson experience.
All the Non-Executive Directors were asked to Kirsty Bashforth recommend potential candidates for the role.
Adam Walker was Amanda Mellor identified through this process.
As Chairman of the Board and of Adam Walker the Nomination Committee, I declared that Ihad previously Nick Winser worked together with Adam and, accordingly, Odgers Berndtson Odgers was appointed to evaluate his suitability for the role.
At the invitation of the Committee, any other Director may attend meetings of the Committee.
In addition, during the year, theGroup Following this evaluation, Adam was interviewed by members HR Director and the Group Head of Talent and Organisational of the Nomination Committee and a recommendation was Development attended to discuss succession planning.
The made to the Board that, as the Finance Director of GKN and secretaryof the Committee is the Company Secretary.
the Chief Executive of GKN Land Systems, Adams skills and experience would complement those of the other members of Details of attendance at Committee meetings during the 2016 the Board.
Adam was appointed to the Board with effect from financial year are set out on page 51.
Since his appointment to the Board, Adam has Principal activities 2016 financial year provided rigorous and constructive challenge in Board and A summary of the Committees principal activities in the 2016 committee meetings.
financial year is as follows: Upon Richard Baileys retirement from the Board in January 2016, Adam was appointed as the Chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee and, subsequently, Justin was appointed as the Senior Independent Director, reflecting his positive contribution to the Board since appointment.
56 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Area of particular expertise Phil Justin Constance Kirsty Amanda Adam Nick White Atkinson Baroudel Bashforth Mellor Walker Winser Culture, ethics and values Financial management HR issues International markets Mergers and acquisitions Operational performance delivery Risk management Strategic development We were delighted to announce the appointment of Constance The Committee notes the recommendation in the five-year Baroudel as a new Non-Executive Director with effect from reviewof Lord Davies Report published in October 2015 that 1July2016.
Constances previous experience as a non-executive there should be a minimum representation of women on boards director will make her a good addition to the Board.
The size of the Board in recent years, amongst also appointed to assist the Committee with respect to other factors, has made this challenging to achieve.
The Committee was satisfied that, diversity will, however, remain a consideration when reviewing when providing its advice with respect to the appointment of theBoards futurecomposition.
Constance, and Adam, Odgers did not have any other Committee performance evaluation connections with the Company.
As part of the 2016 Board performance evaluation, the Amanda Mellor has decided not to stand for re-election at the 2016 Committee assessed its own effectiveness.
While the Committee AGM and will, therefore, be leaving the Board with effect from the agreed that, in 2016, it had made good progress with respect to conclusion of the meeting.
Since her appointment in 2011, Amanda Executive Director succession, it also agreed that improvement has made a significant contribution to the Board and its committees, should be made to the search, selection and succession planning latterly as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
I would like to process for Non-Executive Directors.
This will remain an area of thank Amanda for her hard work and support during this time.
focus in the 2017 financial year.
New Director inductions During the 2016 financial year, the Chairman oversaw Justins, Adams and Constances inductions.
The Chairman agreed a full, formal and tailored induction programme with each of them, which included meetings with senior management, a number ofsite visits and briefings from the Company Secretary and the Companys advisers.
Both Justin and Adam completed their induction programmes promptly and reported that they had Phil White found them a useful way ofdeveloping their understanding about Chair of the Nomination Committee the Group.
Constance expects to conclude her induction shortly.
21 September 2016 Succession planning As a committee, we are keen to ensure that a strong pipeline of future senior management has been identified, from which future Board appointments can be made.
In particular, our focus is on ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience both to lead a business which has changed significantly since theacquisitions of May Gurney and Mouchel and also to oversee the delivery of the Groups strategy.
During the year, the Committee worked closely with the newlyappointed Group HR Director and the Group Head of Talent and Organisational Development to identify the pipeline ofpotential future Board members.
In particular, the Committee meeting inMay 2016 focused exclusively on Executive Director successionplanning.
Diversity As a board, we recognise the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, background, knowledge, experience and gender, amongst anumber of other factors, are and will continue to be taken into consideration when new appointments to the Board are made.
All Board appointments are and will continue to be made on merit.
57 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
