Corporate Governance Continued Directors Remuneration Report Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee meeting attendance From Attendance Current Members Daniel Bernard Chairman 24 05 2006 4 4 1 Andrew Bonfield 11 02 2010 3 4 Pascal Cagni 17 11 2010 4 4 Clare Chapman 2 12 2010 4 4 Anders Dahlvig 19 12 2009 4 4 Rakhi Goss-Custard 1 02 2016 - - Mark Seligman 1 01 2012 4 4 Former Directors who served during 2015 2 Janis Kong 8 12 2006 3 4 Daniel Bernard Daniel Bernard 1 Andrew Bonfield was unable to attend the January 2016 meeting due Chairman of the Nomination Committee to illness.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Clare Chapman 2 Janis Kong resigned as a director on 1 February 2016.
Janis was unable to attend the December 2015 meeting, called at short notice, due to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a prior commitment.
This will assist in ensuring that we Dear Shareholder remain well equipped for the delivery of our strategy.
During the year, I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for we also reviewed the independence, performance and contribution the year ended 31 January 2016 on behalf of the Board.
of Anders Dahlvig and Andrew Bonfield, as a result of their tenure reaching six years.
After review, it was agreed that it was in the best My fellow Nomination Committee members and I have an important Annual Statement from the Chairman interests of the Company to appoint both Anders and Andrew for up role to play in evaluating Board composition and ensuring that it of the Remuneration Committee to an additional three year term.
Neither Andrew nor Anders were remains appropriate for the delivery of the Companys strategy Contents present when the Committee considered their continued appointment.
51 Annual Statement from the Dear Shareholder The Committees terms of reference were also reviewed and were Following nine years of valuable service on the Board, it was agreed Chairman of the Remuneration subject to minor amendments to better align the Committees I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for that Janis Kong would step down.
Once agreed, we began our search Committee responsibilities with the Code.
the year ended 31 January 2016 on behalf of the Board.
for her replacement on the Board and engaged with JCA Group 56 At a glance Limited JCA, who have no other relationship to Kingfisher, to assist The Company has continued its commitment to diversity, retaining This remuneration report is split into two sections: in this search process.
In considering the criteria the new candidate 57 Directors Remuneration Policy strong Board-level diversity of experience, ethnicity and gender.
the new Directors Remuneration Policy: and needed to meet, we considered the skills and experience that the Our performance demonstrates the value of having a diverse Board, 64 Annual Report on Remuneration Board would benefit from when overseeing the implementation the Annual Report on Remuneration.
one which has strong gender diversity, which is replicated at Group of the long-term strategy.
Once agreed, this was provided to JCA, 72 Statement of Implementation of the Executive level 44% of Board members and 67% of Group Executive who identified and proposed a shortlist of three strong candidates.
Remuneration Policy for 2016 17 Strategic transformation members are female.
This exceeds the Companys target of achieving Our clear preference was Rakhi Goss-Custard who brings with her 25% female representation on the Board by 2015.
Over the year, the Board has developed Kingfishers new strategic a wealth of customer and digital retail experience, skills which align to direction which was announced at the Capital Markets Day on The Board is proud of the diversity that exists, not only at Board our new strategy under our five year plan.
Rakhis tailored induction 25 January 2016. and Group Executive level, but right across Kingfisher.
We remain programme is ongoing and has included meetings with Group committed to maximising the benefits of our diverse workforce Executive members and key functional leaders, in addition to Our updated strategy and five year plan will transform how to deliver real and sustainable benefits.
meetings with Operating Company management teams Kingfisher operates so that we can become the leading home to provide her with a better understanding of our businesses.
improvement provider in Europe and unlock the value in the We look forward to continuing our work into 2016 17 and ensuring business for our shareholders.
that Kingfisher retains and attracts the talent necessary to succeed As part of Rakhis appointment, we also considered the composition of in the delivery of our five year plan.
This resulted in Mark Seligmans appointment In the context of this major strategic transformation, we have to the Remuneration Committee, and Rakhis appointment to both the reviewed our remuneration arrangements to ensure that we have Daniel Bernard Audit and Nomination Committees.
the right incentives to support the delivery of the new strategy.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The appointment of Emily Lawson as Chief People Officer will support We determined that there was a requirement for the redesign of 23 March 2016 and enhance the Committees work during the coming year, with a reward to focus on value creation and long-term share ownership heightened focus on strengthening succession planning for key in order to align the executives with the business transformation and the delivery of outcomes committed to shareholders at the Capital Markets Day.
We have therefore designed a new remuneration structure that is based around: Key duties & responsibilities a simplified annual package for executives comprised of fixed pay, In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination Committee is required to: a reduced cash bonus, and a new element called Alignment Shares review the structure, size and composition of the Board and review the time commitment and independence of the which is based on balance sheet and business health metrics make recommendations to the Board, as appropriate: non-executive directors: and measured over three years: identify the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience review succession plans with a view to ensuring the continued on the Board and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies: ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
ensure that upon appointment all directors undergo an appropriate The Committees full terms of reference are available on and tailored induction, and that existing Board members receive the Companys website kingfisher.
the opportunity for training to support their development and contribution to the Board: 50 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 www.
