Corporate Governance Statement Accountability Financial reporting process Highlights The Group has clear policies and procedures to ensure the conformity, reliability and accuracy of financial reporting, including the process Effective systems of risk management and internal control for preparing the Groups interim and annual financial statements.
Robust assessment of principal risks and uncertainties Assessment of the Boards risk appetite conducted The Group recruits suitably qualified and experienced finance Viability statement produced for the first time professionals who have responsibility for the financial reporting process.
Duties are segregated, with clear lines of accountability and delegations of authority.
The Groups financial reporting Systems of risk management and internal control policies and procedures cover financial planning and reporting, General preparation of financial information and the monitoring and The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk control of capital expenditure.
The Groups financial statements management and internal control, including those established preparation process includes reviews at business unit, divisional toidentify, assess, manage and monitor risk.
These systems are and Group levels.
designed to mitigate, but cannot completely eliminate, the risks faced by the Group.
The Board has delegated responsibility for Effectiveness review overseeing the implementation of these systems to the RMAC.
The Code requires the Board, at least annually, to conduct areview of the Groups systems of risk management and internal The Head of Internal Audit reports to the RMAC onstrategic risk issues and has oversight of the Groups risk management control.
The steps taken by the RMAC, on behalf of the Board, framework.
Working with the Head of Internal Audit, management in reviewing these systems are described under Systems of risk is responsible for the identification and evaluation of the risks management and internal control Effectiveness review in the that apply to the Groups business and operations, together with Risk Management and Audit Committee report the design and implementation of controls which are designed to on page 60. manage those risks.
Assessment of principal risks The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out on Risk registers are prepared at business unit, divisional and Group pages27 to 31 inclusive.
The Boards statement relating to level.
Those registers identify internal and external factors and risks, itsassessment of the principal risks is set out on page 48. including those relating to contract delivery, tender pricing, the Groups IT systems and its funding requirements.
These risks, and Following the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit, the the controls designed to mitigate them, are continuously monitored.
Board has taken the opportunity to conduct a fresh review of its principal risks and uncertainties, together with its appetite with The principal aspects of the Groups systems of risk management respect to each such risk.
At its meeting in June 2016, theBoard and internal control also include: reviewed a report produced by management which identified The Risk Review Committee, which reviews risks arising during managements views of the Groups principal risks.
TheBoard tenders for new contracts: broadly supported managements assessment and then indicated The Investment Committee, which reviews risks relating to its desired position with respect to each such risk, using gradings investment decisions taken by the Group: of risk averse, risk neutral or risk tolerant.
This feedback The Groups standing orders that set out delegated authorities isbeing taken into account by the Internal Auditfunction within which the Group operates.
These are supplemented by whenreviewing the Groups systems of risk management standing orders which apply at divisional and business unit andinternal control.
levels: and A number of Group-wide committees which ensure that key risks Board statements are managed appropriately.
These include the Safety, Health and The Board delegated the responsibility for conducting the work Environment Committee and committees which focus on the required for it to provide the fair, balanced and understandable, management of IT risks relating to the Group.
going concern and viability statements to the RMAC.
Further details of the work carried out by the RMAC in support of these To support this structure, the Group has a whistleblowing statements is set out in the Risk Management and Audit arrangement which enables employees to raise concerns in Committee report on pages 60 and 61.
In conducting this work, confidence.
Further information about this arrangement is set the RMAC acts on behalf of the Board and its activities remain outunder Systems of risk management and internal control the responsibility of the Board.
Whistleblowing arrangements in the Risk Management and Audit Committee report on page 60.
A summary of how the Group identifies and manages risk is set out on page 26.
58 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
