Corporate Governance Statement Board statements Under the Code, the Board is required to make a number of statements.
These statements are set out in the following table: Requirement Board statement Where to find further information Compliance with theCode The Directors confirm that, throughout the Application of the main principles ofthe 2016 financial year, the Company complied Code on page 49. withthe provisions of the Code, except as Compliance with the provisions ofthe described below, and continued to applythe Code below.
Going concern basis The Directors are satisfied that the Group Financial review on pages 40 to 45 inclusive.
hassufficient financial resources to continue Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45 inclusive.
operating in the foreseeable future and, therefore, have adopted the going concern Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 27 basisin preparing the Groups 2016 to31 inclusive.
Going concern in the Risk Management and Audit Committee report on page 60.
Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability ofthe Principal risks and uncertainties onpages 27 Group over a three-year period ending 30 June to31 inclusive.
2019, taking intoaccount the Groups current Systems of risk management and internal position and the potential impact of the control in Accountability onpage 58. principal risks and uncertainties set out onpages 27 to 31 inclusive.
The Directors Board statements Viability statement in the have a reasonable expectation that the Group Risk Management and Audit Committee report will continue in operation and meet its liabilities on pages 60 and 61. asthey fall due over this period.
Robust assessment of The Directors confirm that they have carried Principal risks and uncertainties onpages 27 theprincipal risksfacing outarobust assessment of the principal to31 inclusive.
theGroup risksfacing the Group, including those that Assessment of principal risks in would threaten itsbusiness model, future Accountability on page 58. performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors alsoassessed, withrespect to eachsuch risk, its appetite andconsidered thesystems required to mitigate and managesuch risks.
Annual review of systems During the 2016 financial year, the Board Systems of risk management and internal ofriskmanagement and regularly monitored the Groups systems of control Effectiveness review in the Risk internal control riskmanagement andinternal control, via Management and Audit Committee report theRisk Management and Audit Committee onpage 60. the RMAC, and carried out a review of their effectiveness.
The conclusion was that, overall, these systems were effective.
Fair, balanced and The Directors consider that this Annual Report, Board statements Fair, balanced and understandable taken as awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable inthe RiskManagement understandable andprovides the information andAudit Committee reporton page 60. necessary forshareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model andstrategy.
Compliance with the provisions of the Code specified term.
However, each Non-Executive Directors letter of In our 2015 Annual Report, we identified four items of nonappointment contains a notice period of one month either way and compliance with the provisions of the Code during the 2015 financial his her appointment is subject to annual re-election and to statutory year.
During the 2016 financial year, this has reduced to one item.
provisions relating to the removal of directors.
2.3 requires all Non-Executive Directors to be current policy is that all Directors, including the Non-Executive appointed for specified terms: although Adam Walker and Constance Directors, will be subject to annual re-election atthe Companys Baroudel were each appointed for an initial term of three years, none AGM and that, in the future, all Non-Executive Directors will be of the other Non-Executive Directors has been appointed for a appointed for an initial three-year term.
48 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Application of the main principles of the Code During the 2016 financial year, the Company continued to apply the main principles of the Code, as follows: A.
Leadership C. Accountability A3 Role of the Chairman The Groups risk management A1 The Boards role The Board C1 Financial and business Chairman sets the agendas andinternal control systems.
met formally 10 times during reporting The Board has the year.
There is a clear for Board meetings, manages established arrangements to Theactivities of the RMAC, schedule of matters reserved the meetings in conjunction ensure that reports and other whichassists the Board with for the Board, together with with the Company Secretary information published by the itsresponsibilities in relation delegated authorities which and facilitates open and Group are fair, balanced and tothemanagement of risk, areused throughout the Group.
The Strategic are summarised on pages duringthem.
Report is set out on pages 59 to 62 inclusive.
A2 A clear division of 1 to 45 inclusive and this responsibilities The roles A4 Role of the Non-Executive C3 Role and responsibilities provides information about ofthe Chairman and Chief Directors The Chairman oftheRisk Management and the performance of the Group, Executive are clearly defined.
promotes an open and Audit Committee The Board the business model, the Phil White, the Chairman, is constructive environment in the has delegated a number of Groups strategy and the risks responsible for the leadership boardroom and actively invites responsibilities to the RMAC, and uncertainties relating to and effectiveness of the the Non-Executive Directors whichis responsible for the Groups future prospects.
The Non-Executive overseeing the Groups Chief Executive, is responsible Directors provide objective, C2 Risk management and financial reporting processes, for leading the day-to-day rigorous and constructive internal control systems The internal control and risk management of the Group challenge to management and Board sets the Groups risk management framework and within the strategy set by meet regularly in the absence appetite and annually reviews the work undertaken by the theBoard.
the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Effectiveness D. Remuneration E. Relations with B1 The Boards composition B4 Induction, training and D1 Levels and elements shareholders TheNomination Committee development All Directors ofremuneration The E1 Shareholder isresponsible for regularly receive an induction on joining Remuneration Committee engagement and dialogue reviewing the composition the Board.
Training is made sets levels of remuneration The Board takes an active ofthe Board.
Inmaking available to members of the which are designed to role in engaging with appointments to the Board, Board in accordance with promote the long-term shareholders.
The Board the Nomination Committee their requirements.
success of the Group and particularly values considers the range of skills, structures remuneration opportunities to meet B5 Provision of information knowledge and experience so as to link it to both withshareholders and andsupport The Chairman, in requiredin order to maintain corporate and individual theChairman ensures that conjunction with the Company aneffective board.
performance, thereby the Board is kept informed Secretary, ensures that all aligning managements about shareholders views.
B2 Board appointments The Board members receive interests with those appointment of new Directors accurate and timely information.
E2 Constructive use of the of shareholders.
is ledby the Nomination AGM The AGM provides the B6 Board and committee Committee.
Further details of D2 Development of Board with an important performance evaluation the activities of the Nomination remuneration policy opportunity to meet with During the2016 financial Committee can be found on andpackages Details shareholders, who are year, the Board undertook pages 56 and 57. ofthe activities of the invited to meet the Board an evaluation of its own Remuneration Committee following the formal B3 Time commitments performance.
Details of the can be found in the business ofthe meeting.
Onappointment, Directors evaluation can be found on Remuneration Report on are notified of the time page 55. pages 66to 85 inclusive.
commitment expected from B7 Re-election of Directors them which, in practice, goes AllDirectors were subject beyond that set out in their to shareholder election or letter of appointment.
re-election at the 2015 AGM, External directorships, which as will be the case at the may affect existing time 2016 AGM other than commitments, must be Amanda Mellor.
49 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
