Corporate Governance Statement Effectiveness A programme of courses is made available to the Directors, who Highlights are encouraged toattend courses which they consider to be of relevance to theirroles.
Successful induction of new  Launch of training programme for Board members Information and support Completion of all actions from 2015 Boardevaluation The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the Greater focus on executive and senior management Groups operational and financial performance, together with reports succession planning on trading, the markets, health and safety and other matters.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Board and each Time commitment ofits committees.
Prior to each Board or committee meeting, The Executive Directors may serve on other boards of directors, theCompany Secretary ensures that the relevant papers are provided that they can demonstrate that any such appointment made available, via a secure electronic portal, five working days will not interfere with their time commitment to the Company.
in advance of the meeting.
All Directors have access to the Themajor commitments oftheDirectors are outlined on pages services of the Company Secretary and may take independent 52and53.
professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Nomination Committee remains satisfied that all Re-election of Directors Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to meet their As it is the first AGM since their appointments, resolutions will commitments to the Company and that the Chairmans other beproposed to elect Adam Walker and Constance Baroudel commitments do not interfere with the performance of his asDirectors at the AGM on 18 November 2016.
All other day-to-day duties to the Company.
Directors, other than Amanda Mellor who will retire from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the meeting, will offer Induction and development themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Details of inductions of recently appointed Directors are set outinthe Nomination Committee report on page 67.
Following the 2016 evaluation of the Boards performance, the performance of each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered During the year, the Board also received briefings from the to be effective and they are each considered to demonstrate Companys external advisers on changes to legislation, regulation appropriate commitment to the role.
Nick Winser has served as a or market practice.
For example, during the year, the Board Director for over seven years.
Since there have been a number of received briefings on the latest developments in SHE regulation recent appointments to the Board, and taking into account Nicks and on cyber security from the Chief Information Officer.
experience in SHE matters as a former executive director of Directors are also encouraged to continue to update their skills National Grid, the Board considers it appropriate to propose and knowledge and to ensure that they are aware of developments Nickfor re-election.
Board tenure Board balance Board composition 02 years Male Executive Directors 24 years Female Non-Executive 46 years Directors 6 years Chairman 2015 Board performance evaluation We have made reasonable progress against the areas of focus identified in the 2015 evaluation, as demonstrated by the following table: Area of focus Progress made Set aside sufficient time for Quarterly updates provided tothe Board formal discussions about Comprehensive review of strategy at the October 2015 Board meeting strategy at Board meetings Ensuring that the Groups Significant progress made onthe implementation of the ERPsystem systems of risk management Implementation of all material recommendations from a review of the Groups key and internal control support financial controls itscontinued growth Increasing the focus on formal Appointment of a new Group HR Director and Head of Talent and  successionplanning Nomination Committee meeting in May 2015 to review the executive management talent pipeline Continued focus on Board and Continuous review of Board papers to ensure that high-quality information is provided  Debriefs held after Board meetings to ensure continuous improvement in administration 54 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 2016 Board performance evaluation The 2016 evaluation was led by the Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The evaluation focused on a number of key areas: The skills Meetings The effectiveness The Boards role and experience and Board of the Boards with respect to the of the Board administration decision-making Groupsstrategy The Boards The Boards engagement with The operation management key stakeholders, including of the Boards of risk shareholders and employees committees The process was divided into four stages: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Completion of Evaluation of Initial discussions Feedback to questionnaire responses reporting withthe Chairman individualDirectors andthen the Board A comprehensive The Company Secretary The Company Secretary The Senior Independent questionnaire was sent compiled a report based and the Chairman Director met the other to each Board member.
on the feedback provided discussed the draft Non-Executive Directors to Board members by Board members, conclusions.
Subsequently, discuss the Chairmans completed and returned addressing the these conclusions and a performance and then met thequestionnaire to the performance ofthe draft action plan were the Chairman toprovide Company Secretary.
Boardand each of discussed by the Board collective feedback.
atits meeting in August TheChairman provided 2016.
The Board feedback toindividual approved the action plan.
The 2016 evaluation confirmed that, overall, the Board and its committees are making reasonable progress.
However, certain improvements to the operation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees were highlighted, as referred to on page 46.
A summary of the Boards key strengths and its principal areas of focus for 2017, as identified by the evaluation, is as follows: Key strengths Principal areas of focus for 2017 The new Executive Directors appointed in 2015 have Improving the search, selection and succession planning process settled in well for Non-Executive Directors.
Continuing the good progress made with respect to executive and senior management successionplanning A healthy and robust debate is held at Board meetings Ensuring that the Groups management of risk remains appropriate in light of its growth The Board sets aside time for in-depth discussions Reviewing refreshing Vision 2020 aboutstrategy The Board has increased its focus on formal executive Continuous review of the information provided to the Board, so and senior management successionplanning as to ensure that decisions can continue to be made effectively 55 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
