Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report Audit Committee meeting attendance Current members From Attendance Andrew Bonfield Chairman 11 02 2010 6 6 1 Anders Dahlvig 16 12 2009 5 6 Rakhi Goss-Custard 1 02 2016 - - Mark Seligman 1 01 2012 6 6 Former Directors who served during 2015 16 2 Janis Kong 11 02 2011 6 6 1 Anders Dahlvig was unable to attend the March 2015 meeting due to a prior business commitment.
2 Janis Kong resigned as a director and as a member of the Committee on 1 February 2016.
Andrew Boneld Andrew Bonfield Chairman of the A Chairman of the Audit udit Committee Committee The members of the Committee have been chosen to provide the Dear Shareholder wide range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the year these duties and the Committee is well placed to continue its oversight ended 31 January 2016 on behalf of the Board.
and governance role in the year ahead, including oversight of the impact of the revised business model and the risks associated with Throughout the year, we continued to focus on the integrity of the management of a major change programme such as the delivery Companys financial reporting, the quality of the external and internal of ONE Kingfisher.
audit processes and the appropriateness of internal controls.
In order to further develop our understanding, the Committee also received In September 2014 changes applicable to the 2015 16 financial year in-depth presentations from the management of Kingfishers were made to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
These relate to Operating Companies, including the key strategic risks the identification and management of principal risks of the business, impacting these businesses.
within an agreed risk appetite, and the provision of a longer-term viability statement of the Company.
These are reflected in the We also considered and reviewed the Companys anti-bribery and enhanced disclosures throughout this report.
A fuller description of the operation of the Committee during the At the Committees request, the Chief Financial Officer and year is set out below which will provide you with a useful guide to senior members of the Finance Department attend meetings of the the activities of the Committee during the year.
I will be available at Committee.
Our effective working relationship with the wider business the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work has been maintained through the year with senior managers from the of the Committee.
business in attendance at certain meetings to provide insight into their own areas of business.
In addition, the external and internal auditors Andrew Bonfield are regular attendees.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The composition of the Audit Committee changed at the year-end 23 March 2016 when, as part of the Boards succession planning strategy, Rakhi Goss-Custard was appointed as a member of the Board and Audit Committee on Janis Kongs retirement from the Board.
Key duties & responsibilities In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required, amongst other things, to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: evaluate and approve the going concern assumption and longer-term viability statements: review, understand and evaluate the Companys control of internal financial risk, and other controls and their associated systems: agree the scope of both the external and internal auditors annual audit programme and review the output: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function on an annual basis: monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness and approve the policy on the engagement of the oversee the relationship with the external auditor, and make external auditor to supply non-audit services.
recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year oversee the process for determining whether the and, following minor amendment, are considered fit for purpose and Annual Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced reflect best practice.
The terms of reference are available on the and understandable assessment of the Groups performance, Companys website kingfisher.
business model and strategy: 46 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 46 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance During the year, among other matters, the Committee: Governance considered the going concern and longer-term viability statements, Andrew Bonfield is designated as the Committee member with recent reviewing the scenarios and risk mitigations which underpin the and relevant financial experience, and all other members of the Audit sensitivity analysis completed, and considered how these align Committee are deemed to have the necessary ability and experience to delivery of the strategic plan over the five-year period initially to understand financial statements.
The impact of both separate and cumulative scenarios All members of the Committee receive appropriate induction, occurring, and the potential mitigating actions, were considered in addition to the induction which all new directors receive upon in confirming the Kingfisher Groups expected resilience.
The induction programme includes an overview of the information is provided in the Strategic Report on page 35: business, its financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members received reports on the internal audit functions store audits in also obtain access to the Companys operations and staff, and all each of our Operating Companies.
Health and safety was reviewed members of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
as part of this work and action plans were put in place to address The Committee has a standing agenda linked to events in the instances of non-compliance with our health and safety procedures.
Companys financial calendar for consideration at each meeting, This is supported by the Group Health and Safety Committee.
The and within the annual audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with Committee was satisfied that the necessary steps were being taken the requirements of the Code.
At the invitation of the Committee, the to improve the standards of health and safety across Kingfisher: Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer regularly attend considered the internal audit functions regular reviews of the meetings, as do the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Company-wide Enterprise Resource Planning IT Programme Officer, the Group Audit and Risk Management Director, Group Chief to provide the Committee with assurance over the governance, Accountant and the external auditor.
Private meetings were also held performance and delivery of this programme.
This is a significant with the external and internal auditors at which management were project for the Company and the Committee is satisfied that the not present.
correct level of control is being maintained.
Further reviews will be carried out in 2016: and The effectiveness of the Committee was considered as part of the received presentations from the IT function, focusing on cyber risks Board evaluation detailed on page 42.
At its meeting in January 2016 the Company faces and the mitigations in place.
The Committee the Committee considered the contents of the review and concluded was satisfied that adequate steps were being taken to protect that the evaluation had found the Committee provided robust and Kingfisher against cyber threats and that Kingfishers IT security appropriate challenge to the business and continued to operate strategy and plans are subject to frequent re-assessment and efficiently and effectively.
It was agreed to review again how risk is benchmarking against market practice.
Cyber risk will continue monitored by the Committee, and the Company as a whole, during to be reviewed by the Committee at least bi-annually.
this time of transformational change and given the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirements.
This has been incorporated into In addition, the Committee continued to monitor the progress on the the Committees planned programme of work for the coming standardisation and improvement of the Companys internal control financial year.
processes in a number of key areas.
The key work undertaken by the Committee during the year under As part of the review of the operation of the Companys Anti-Bribery review and up to the date of this Annual Report is detailed below.
and Corruption controls and compliance an external law firm confirmed that an adequate framework of procedures designed Activities of the Audit Committee to prevent bribery is in place.
The Committee also considered the Companys resourcing for monitoring compliance with these during the year procedures and will further review progress in the year to come.
Internal controls and risk The Companys Code of Conduct was also refreshed and a new Gifts and Hospitality Policy was approved.
The Committee received and considered reports during the year from the internal audit function on the work they had undertaken in Financial reporting and significant financial issues reviewing and auditing the Company, in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Committees formal reviews of the Companys annual and interim financial statements and associated announcements The Committee also received and considered reports from the considered significant accounting principles, policies and practices Companys external auditor, Deloitte LLP, which included any and their appropriateness, financial reporting issues and significant control findings relevant to their audit.
The Committee also considered, having received The Committee considered reports on the output from the input and guidance from the Disclosure Committee, whether the Company-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks disclosures and reports made, including the 2015 16 Annual Report and reviewed the annual report on the Companys systems of internal and Accounts, meet the latest legal and regulatory requirements for control and their effectiveness, and reported the results of the review a listed company and are fair, balanced and understandable.
Further information on the Companys risk management resulted in a number of disclosure enhancements being incorporated and internal control procedures can be found on pages 31 to 35. into the Annual Accounts compared to the previous year.
As part of the Committees continuing programme to increase its awareness of the Companys operations and to understand the implementation of Operating Company control processes, the Committee met with, and received presentations from, the senior management of Castorama Poland, Russia and France, Brico Dpt France and Iberia, and received presentations from the senior management of Kingfishers Information Technology function.
com 47 Audit Committee Report continued In conducting these reviews, the Committee considered the work The committee confirms compliance with the provisions of the and recommendations of the Companys finance function and Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation received reports from the Companys external auditor on their Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit findings, including any control observations relevant to their audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the work.
The significant reporting matters the Committee considered UK Competition and Markets Authority.
in the year are detailed below: During the year, the Committee agreed the approach to and scope of The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
to determine whether any impairment had been suffered.
The Committee also reviewed and agreed the terms of engagement, The Committee reviewed the significant financial assumptions the fees, and areas of responsibility and the work to be undertaken used and corresponding disclosures, including the validity of by the external auditor, and agreed the fees payable in respect of the cash flow projections used in the strategic plans and the results 2015 16 audit work.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor of sensitivity analyses, as well as the selection of appropriate for their audit services are given in note 7 to the accounts.
In addition, discount and long-term growth rates.
This resulted in the the external auditor provided the Committee with a schedule of each impairment of goodwill in Brico Dpt Romania as set out matter on which there was an initial difference between them and in note 12 to the financial statements.
management in relation to the accounting treatment, and the final decisions on these issues.
The Committee considered the treatment of exceptional items, including the UK and continental Europe restructuring and disposal The Committee also considered the effectiveness and independence of Kingfishers controlling 70% stake in B&Q China, which are of the external auditor.
In consideration of its effectiveness, the presented as exceptional items in the consolidated income Committee reviewed the experience and expertise of the audit statement and note 5 to the financial statements, to help provide team, the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations to it, an indication of Kingfishers underlying business performance.
feedback from the Companys businesses and the contents of the The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to external audit report.
This included a review of the continuing appropriateness In considering the independence of the external auditor, the of the stock provisioning policy which takes into consideration Committee received a statement of independence from the auditor, such factors as stock turn, range or delisted status, damage and a report describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage obsolescence.
The Committee also considered the impact of any conflicts of interest, and reviewed the extent of non-audit services the transformation plan and UK restructuring, which resulted provided to the Company.
The Committee confirmed its satisfaction in higher stock provisions being recognised and a more with the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders as the Companys rebates and continues to be satisfied with the judgements taken external auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
As a result of its work during and the control environment in relation to the recognition of rebate the year, the Committee has concluded that it acted in accordance income and financial statement reporting.
with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Group internal audit The Committee considered and reviewed updates from the internal In addition to their statutory duties, the services of Deloitte LLP are audit programme at each of its meetings during the year.
Reports also engaged where, as a result of their position as external auditor, from the internal audit function to the Committee included updates they either must, or are best placed to, perform non-statutory audit on the Companys risk management systems, findings from reviews services.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as the of these systems, and reviews of the remit, organisation, annual plan interim review, additional assurance procedures, shareholder circulars, and resources of the internal audit function.
The Committee also Company borrowings, tax compliance, regulatory filings and certain considered how the internal audit function would tailor its audit plans business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the to support the business during the delivery of the transformation plan.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the The Committee reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit internal audit function.
The review was conducted using an internal services provided and proposed by the external auditor to ensure questionnaire with input from the functions key stakeholders within that there was no impairment of independence and objectivity, and the Company, the external auditors and the Committee.
No significant subsequently monitored the non-audit work performed to ensure issues were highlighted by the review.
it was within policy guidelines.
The Company has a policy on the use of its external auditor for External audit non-audit work and this is regularly reviewed.
The external auditor is The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor.
In doing so, their independence or violate any laws or regulations affecting their the Committee takes into account auditor independence and audit appointment as external auditor.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as external auditor in The approval of the Chairman of the Committee is required prior 2009 10 following a formal tender process.
Richard Muschamp was to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external auditor, appointed lead audit partner following the conclusion of the 2013 14 where in excess of specified amounts.
The Companys policy on the audit process, and will serve as lead partner until the external audit use of the external auditor for non-audit work can be found on the contract is put out to tender, which will be undertaken by 2019 20.
48 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 48 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Monitoring Accountability, risk management and There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the system internal control of internal control and reporting any significant control failings or Internal control weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
These include: The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control, an annual planning process and regular financial reporting, which is designed to safeguard the assets of the Company and ensure comparing results with plan and the previous year on a monthly the reliability of the financial information for both internal use and and cumulative basis: external publication, and to comply with the Turnbull guidance written reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial and the Code.
Officer submitted at each Board meeting: The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the regular formal reports from Operating Company management to internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance the Audit Committee on the control environment in their business controls and risk management in accordance with the Code, for the and actions taken to maintain or improve the environment as period from 1 February 2015 to the date of approval of this Annual appropriate: and Report and Accounts 2015 16. reports and presentations to the Board on certain areas of specialist If significant losses were to be incurred during the year as a result of risk.
These include treasury, insurance, tax and pensions.
a failure of controls, a detailed report would be provided to the Audit A formal bi-annual certification is provided by the Chief Executive Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms that no significant Officer and Finance Director of each Operating Company stating weaknesses were identified in relation to the review carried out that appropriate internal controls were in operation and confirming during the year and, therefore, no remedial action was required.
compliance with the Companys policies and procedures.
Any weaknesses are highlighted and the results are reviewed by The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks Operating Company management, the Group Audit and Risk for effective internal control.
The Company has procedures for the Management Director, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the delegation of authorities for significant matters, to ensure approval Audit Committee and the Board.
The internal audit function monitors is sought at the appropriate level.
These procedures are subject and selectively checks the results of this exercise, ensuring that to regular review and provide an ongoing process for identifying, representations made are consistent with the results of its work evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable The internal audit function follows a planned programme of reviews and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
that are aligned to the Companys risks.
The function: The responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring the works with the Operating Companies to develop, improve system and the maintenance of effective control is delegated to the and embed risk management tools and processes into their management of each of the Operating Companies.
The Companys business operations: risk management and reporting process helps management to reports directly to the Audit Committee and has the authority identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risks.
Management at each to review any relevant part of the Company and its businesses: Operating Company has responsibility for the identification and oversees the operation of the individual Operating Companies evaluation of the significant risks applicable to their business and audit committees: and any mitigating actions to be taken.
The Group Executive Committee provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks that are significant, as assurance on the control environment across Kingfisher.
well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board.
The types of risks identified included both Risk appetite strategic and material operational risks and are detailed on pages 31 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
During the year, the Board also considered the nature and level of risk that it was prepared to accept in order to deliver business strategies, Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks and reviewed and approved the Companys internal statement of risk facing the Company in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks appetite.
This statement of risk appetite describes both the current that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of and medium-term levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level those risks materialising, in identifying the Companys ability to reduce qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively the incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise, managed to the level desired by the Board.
and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit provided.
