Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Risk Management and Audit Committee report RMAC allocation of time % Adam Walker Chair External audit and financialstatements Internal audit Risk management andinternalcontrols Committee governance Dear shareholder, The Committee met formally five times during the 2016 financial I am pleased to present the Risk Management and Audit year.
In addition to the Committee members, the following were Committee report, which summarises the activities of the also in attendance: Committee during the 2016 financial year.
The Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the I will be available at the AGM on 18 November 2016 to answer Head of Internal Audit: any questions you may have about how the Board and the Other members of the Board, when considered appropriate Committee oversee the management of risk and the Groups forthem to do so for example, the Chairman and the Chief systems of risk management and internal control.
Executive attended the September 2015 and March 2016 meetings, at which the Groups full-yearand half-year results, Richard Bailey, the previous Chair of the Committee, retired from respectively, were considered: the Board and as the Chair of the Committee with effect from Representatives from PwC for external audit matters: and 31January 2016.
I would like to thank Richard for his significant Representatives from KPMG for internal audit matters.
contribution as theChair of the Committee over more than five years, during which he oversaw a number of changes to the way The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary.
inwhich the Group manages risk following the acquisitions of Details of attendance at Committee meetings during the 2016 MayGurney andMouchel.
financial year are set out on page 51.
Role Principal activities 2016 financial year The role of the Committee includes: The following matters were considered during the Committee meetings which took place during the year: Monitoring the Groups financial reporting procedures and the external audit: Examining the integrity of the Groups financial statements and Sept Feb Mar June challenging significant financial reporting and other judgements: Financial reporting Assisting the Board to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control: Full-year results and announcements Reviewing the adequacy of the Groups whistleblowing Half-year results and announcements arrangements: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit Going concern function, agreeing the list of audits to be conducted each Viability statement year andreviewing the results of those audits: and Fair, balanced and understandable Testing the independence and objectivity of the external requirement auditorand approving any non-audit services provided bytheexternal auditor.
Dividend External audit The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Companys website at http: www.
Management representation letter Composition and meeting attendance Evaluation of external auditors effectiveness The members of the Committee at 30 June 2016 were: Recommendation of re-appointment Adam Walker Chair Justin Atkinson Non-audit fees Kirsty Bashforth External audit plan Amanda Mellor Nick Winser Internal audit As a chartered accountant and the Finance Director of GKN plc, General update Iam considered by the Board to have recent and relevant Evaluation of internal auditors financial experience.
effectiveness Approval of internal audit plan 59 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued Effectiveness review.
The Committees work with respect to Principal activities 2016 financial year continued thefair, balanced and understandable, going concern and viability statements is described below.
Sept Feb Mar June Fair, balanced and understandable Risk management The principal aspects of the review process conducted by Systems of risk management and theCommittee and management to support the Boards internalcontrol statement were: Assessment of principal risks Setting up a committee of senior individuals within the Group Other todraft the Annual Report: Holding regular meetings of this committee to discuss and Whistleblowing agree significant disclosure items: Review of terms of reference The committee members retaining copies of supporting materials and confirming that, in their opinion, the sections Systems of risk management and internal control drafted by them were fair, balanced and understandable: General Requesting that certain key contributors to sections of this Information on how the Group identifies and manages risk is Annual Report for example, Managing Directors and Finance setout on page 26.
A description of the principal aspects of Directors of business units sign a declaration confirming the theGroups systems of risk management and internal control accuracy of the information provided: isset out on page 58.
Arranging for PwC and FutureValue a corporate reporting During the year, the Committee reviewed reports providing a consultancy to review the Annual Report and for Mercer, consolidated analysis of the divisional and business unit risk theCompanys remuneration consultants, to review the registers.
Having done so, it challenged management to ensure Remuneration Report: that the risks identified were being appropriately managed and Circulating drafts of the Annual Report to the Committee mitigated.
In addition, the Committee challenged management andthe Board for review: and toconsider potential future risks which may affect the Group, Discussing material disclosure items at a meeting of the in the light of its plans for future growth.
Effectiveness review Going concern The Code requires the Board, at least annually, to conduct a review The principal aspects of the review process conducted by of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal theCommittee and management to support the Boards control systems.
The Boards statement about this review is set statement were: out on page 48.
Reviewing the Groups available sources of funding and, in At its meeting in September 2016, the Committee reviewed particular, testing the covenants and assessing the available managements assessment of the key elements of the Groups headroom using a range of assumptions: systems of risk management and internal control.
The Committee Reviewing the short, medium and long-term cash flow noted, in particular, that: forecasts, noting the significant progress made during the year in relation to short-term cash management: During the year, management had made significant progress Taking into account the current and forecast activities of the with respect to implementing a number of actions following Group, including its long-term contracts and order books, and the review of the Groups key financial controls: those factors considered likely to affect its future performance Good progress had been made in relation to the Groups and financial position: and ERP system: Taking into account the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
Management had agreed to set up a single finance shared services centre, which would facilitate the introduction of The Committee discussed the going concern statement at its common systems and procedures across the Group: and meeting in September 2016 and, having done so, recommended During the year, KPMG had conducted a number of internal audit that the Board provided it in the form set out on page 48. reviews across the Groups operations and had worked with Viability statement management to ensure that actions were closed-out appropriately.
The Directors have chosen to consider the prospects of the Group Whistleblowing arrangements over a three-year period ending 30 June 2019, as they consider it The Company makes available an externally-hosted helpline, to be a period over which they are able to forecast the Groups which employees can call, in confidence, if they have any performance with reasonable certainty.
In particular: concerns about improprieties in financial reporting or other As part of its work to support this statement, the Committee matters.
Any such concerns raised are then investigated.
took into account the potential likelihood and impact of the Duringthe year, the Committee reviewed reports which provided Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These risks and details of any material issues referred to the helpline and how uncertainties are assessed on a rolling three-year basis: management had investigated them.
Access to the Kier helpline A number of the programmes relating to the Groups key was made available tothe Mouchel businesses during the year.
construction projects, which are important factors in an Board statements assessment of the Groups performance, support a review Under the Code, the Board is required to provide a number of over a three-year period: and statements, as set out on page 48.
The Committees work to The KPIs contained in Vision 2020 cover a three-year period support the Boards statement with respect to the Groups ending 30 June 2019. systems of riskmanagement and internal control is described above under Systems of risk management and internal control 60 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 The Committee has supported the Board in the delivery of this Developing and implementing a policy on the engagement ofthe statement by: external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Considering the current position and prospects of the Group, External auditor effectiveness asdescribed above under Going concern: A similar process to that used for the purposes of assessing the Reviewing progress against Vision 2020, which was also internal audit functions effectiveness was applied with respect formally discussed at Board meetings during the year: toPwCs performance as the external auditor.
Assessing the Groups principal risks and uncertainties: and A questionnaire was issued to a number of key stakeholders, Reviewing a scenario stress test conducted by management that including members of the Committee and those involved in the involved an assessment of the Groups ability to absorb varying 2015 audit, and the feedback received was discussed by the degrees ofplausible downside scenarios, including significant Committee at its meeting in February 2016. reductions in revenue, profitability and cash, the removal of finance facilities and a material adverse affect on the business The Committee concluded that, overall, it was satisfied with caused by Brexit.
PwCs performance during its first year as the external auditor.
Positive feedback was received in respect of PwCs collaborative, The Committee discussed and approved the viability statement at but challenging, approach, its technical expertise and the quality its meeting in September 2016 and, having done so, recommended of its reporting to the Committee.
The review also identified the that the Board provided it in the form set out on page 48. need to ensure that the audit team has an appropriate range Internal audit ofskills and experience, that the audit process is adequately Internal audits 2016 financial year communicated and that there is effective project management During the 2016 financial year, the Committee monitored the ofthe audit process.
implementation and progress of the 2016 internal audit plan, The Committee will formally assess PwCs performance in which was approved by the Committee at its June 2015 meeting.
relationto the 2016 audit process during the 2017 financial year.
Results from each completed audit were discussed by the However, the Committee discussed its preliminary views at its Committee, together with the actions taken by management meeting in September 2016 and concluded that, overall, it was withrespect to those audits.
Internal auditor effectiveness PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in office and the The Code and the Committees terms of reference require the Committee has recommended PwCs re-appointment to the Committee to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Board.
A resolution to this effect will therefore be proposed internal audit function.
During the 2016 financial year, the Head of Internal Auditissued External auditor independence and non-audit services a detailed questionnaire addressing various aspects of both the During the 2016 financial year, PwC provided non-audit services Internal Audit function and KPMGs performance as the co-sourced to the Group.
The Committee monitors the level and scope internal auditor to a number ofstakeholders, including members ofnon-audit work awarded to PwC to ensure that any services of the Committee and senior management.
The feedback from provided are within relevant ethical guidance and that the the completed questionnaires was then discussed by the associated fees are not of a level that would affect PwCs Committee at its meeting in February2016.
All fees relating to the provision The Committee concluded that, overall, the Groups Internal Audit of non-audit fees by PwC must be referred to and agreed by function was operating effectively, with positive feedback being the Committee.
provided in relation to the quality of KPMGs reports to the The fees paid to PwC during the 2016 financial year in respect Committee, the focused nature of KPMGs review methodology ofnon-audit services were: and the ability for material risk issues to be escalated effectively to senior management.
Areas of focus identified by the review Amount Type of services Specific services 000 included a need to ensure that topics for audit were carefully selected, that issues identified during audits were appropriately Project assurance in relation to Non-audit closed-out and that reports were produced in a timely manner.
ERP project 62 assurance Feedback was subsequently provided to KPMG.
Sustainability reporting assurance 45 KPMG has indicated its willingness to continue in office and the Interims review 2016 financial year 35 Committee has decided to appoint KPMG as the co-sourced internal auditor for the 2017 financial year.
Mouchel tax compliance services Tax advice and UK 46 compliance External audit Introduction Mouchel tax advice and compliance The Committee is responsible for: Middle East 31 Total 219 Approving the annual audit plan: Monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process: The total audit fees payable by the Group with respect to the Making recommendations to the Board in relation to 2016 financial year are 1,419,000.
The total non-audit fees theappointment, re-appointment and removal of the during the 2016 financial year therefore represented approximately externalauditor: 15% of the audit fees payable in respect of the year.
During the Approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 2015 financial year, 496,000 was paid to PwC in relation to external auditor: non-audit fees, representing approximately 39% of the audit fees Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence for that year.
and objectivity: and 61 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued PwC was first appointed to conduct the interims review and audit Significant issues and other accounting judgements for the 2015 financial year.
PwC has strict requirements on lead The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness partner rotation and the leadaudit partner is required to change of managements judgements, assumptions and estimates after five years.
As part of the 2016 audit, PwC confirmed that it inpreparing the financial statements.
After discussions with was independent within the meaning of applicable regulatory and management and PwC, the Committee determined that the professional requirements.
Taking this into account, and having significant issues and other accounting judgements relating to considered the steps taken by PwC to preserve its independence, the 2016 financial statements are as shown in the table below.
the Committee concluded that PwCs independence had not been Committee performance evaluation compromised notwithstanding the level of non-audit fees incurred As part of the 2016 Board performance evaluation, the during the year.
Committee assessed its own effectiveness.
Committee members Financial statements 2016 agreed that, overall, the Committees performance had been The audit process effective during the year.
The Committee agreed that areas of The scope of the 2016 audit was approved by the Committee focus for the 2017 financial year included continuing to review the atits meeting in June 2016.
The Committee reviewed and Groups approach to the evaluation of risk, ensuring appropriate challenged the proposed plan and considered the levels of interaction between the Board and the Committee on risk and materiality and resources proposed by PwC to ensure that they maximising the benefits of the Internal Audit programme.
The audit fee was also discussed with the Committee prior to its approval.
I met the lead audit partner from PwC to discuss the 2016 audit process.
At its September 2016 meeting, the Committee reviewed PwCs findings and discussed the significant issues that arose during the audit.
In particular, the Committee and PwC Adam Walker discussed the key accounting and audit judgements and reviewed Chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee any unadjusted audit differences which had been identified.
21 September 2016 Significant issue and How the Board RMAC addressed these issues judgements other accounting judgements Accounting for The Group has significant long-term contracts in the Construction and Services divisions, in particular.
Profit long-term isrecognised according to the stage of completion of the contract.
The assessment of profit requires the contracts exercise of judgement when preparing estimates of the forecast costs and revenues of a contract.
A number including profit offactors are relevant to this assessment, including, in particular, the expected recovery of costs.
recognition, During the year, the Board regularly reviewed and considered managements latest assessment of the forecast work-in-progress costs and revenues on certain significant long-term contracts for example, the Groups projects for MTR in and provisioning Hong Kong and its Environmental Services contracts.
In addition, the Committee identified accounting for long-term contracts as one of the principal matters for review by PwC in the 2016 audit.
TheCommittee also discussed managements assessment of the profit on such contracts with PwC and management when considering the interim and year-end financial statements at its meetings in March 2016 and September 2016, respectively.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report: please see page 90.
Accounting for Management has separately disclosed certain non-underlying items, in addition to presenting the underlying adjustments to results of the Group.
Details of those items are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
underlying profit The non-underlying items and their disclosure have been regularly discussed at Board meetings during the 2016 financial year.
The Board obtained advice from the Companys corporate brokers and PwC in relation tosuch items.
The Committee identified the accounting treatment of non-underlying items as one of the principal matters for review by PwC in the 2016 audit.
At its meeting in September 2016, theCommittee reviewed and considered these items with both PwC and management in the context of its review of the2016 financial statements.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report: please see page 91.
Valuation of land The Group holds inventory within the Residential division, primarily comprising land held for residential and properties development, for which construction has not started, and work-in-progress.
The carrying value of the inventory is based on the Groups current estimates of the sales prices and building costs.
One of the key elements of the systems of risk management and internal control within the Residential division is the development appraisals prepared by management, using a number of internal and external reference points.
At its meeting in June 2016, the Committee identified the valuation of land and properties as a key area of judgement and, therefore, instructed PwC to challenge the principal assumptions underlying managements appraisals during the 2016 audit, in particular those relating to building costs and sales rates.
Assessment of The majority of the Groups goodwill relates to the acquisitions of Mouchel and May Gurney.
Both the Board carrying value and the Committee have continued to oversee and monitor the performance of the Group during the 2016 ofgoodwill financial year.
This performance and, in particular, the Groups ability to generate cash is of particular relevance to the audit procedures conducted by PwC with respect to the carrying value of goodwill.
Throughout the year, the Board and the Committee have challenged management to ensure effective cash management by the Groups businesses.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report: please see page 92.
62 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
