Governance Corporate Governance Daniel Bernard Chairman principal committees continued to function well, and that their Dear Shareholder members were individually and collectively effective in discharging I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the their duties and responsibilities.
We continuously review and seek year ended 31 January 2016, on behalf of the Board.
to improve our governance frameworks and systems and the roles, structure and accountabilities of its mechanisms.
The terms of I firmly believe that a robust, efficient and effective governance reference for each of the Board and executive committees and framework is essential to support management in delivering the sub-committees were reviewed and adjusted as necessary to Companys long-term business success.
This is particularly true in improve their efficiency and reflect changes of legislation and best a period of transformational change, when so much focus during the practice.
A comprehensive Board management and information past year has been on Kingfishers evolution over the next five years.
review conducted during the year led to changes to the Boards Good governance has not only supported the work of the Board on forward agenda, and the type and frequency of information that it the development of the longer-term transformational plan, but has will receive.
This will be particularly valuable as the Board reviews also ensured delivery of shorter-term performance.
We have reviewed Kingfishers performance against the key performance indicators our governance framework with reference to the UK Corporate KPIs and strategic milestones of the five year plan.
Governance Code and a statement of compliance with the Code is set out on page 45.
As part of our wider governance review, the Board adopted a new Code of Conduct during the year.
The Code of Conduct sets out our During the year I have been impressed by the time and commitment values and ethical standards, which all employees and suppliers are given by all of my Board colleagues in helping shape a new long-term required to adhere to at all times, and supports our ONE Kingfisher strategy.
At the same time they have supported and, where required, culture.
The main change was to further increase the emphasis on challenged the executive team, whose job it is to manage the the importance of the safety of our customers and colleagues.
Company day to day, to drive performance and create value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Later, in the Directors Remuneration Report, you will learn about the strategic review of executive remuneration that was undertaken to In May 2015, Kevin OByrne stepped down as an executive director ensure that directors remuneration remains fit for purpose and aligned after almost seven years with the Company.
Janis Kong also retired to both long-term shareholders interests and to the achievement of as a non-executive director on 1 February 2016 having served on the our new strategy.
Consistent with good governance, an extensive Board for nine years.
I would like to thank Kevin and Janis personally consultation process was conducted with shareholders before we for their significant contributions during their time on the Board.
arrived at what we are confident are fair and balanced policy changes In January, we announced the appointment of Rakhi Parekh Gossthat align the interests of executives with those of shareholders and the Custard as a non-executive director.
Rakhis previous experience long-term success of the Company.
We hope that you will support the at Amazon brings digital retail expertise to the Board, which will new remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting later this year.
prove invaluable as we improve our digital offering.
Rakhi has been The following pages of this report set out in greater detail the appointed to both the Audit and Nomination Committees.
The Board framework and processes that Kingfisher has in place to ensure also appointed Mark Seligman to the Remuneration Committee the highest levels of corporate governance.
The report as a whole in January 2016. provides an insight into how, through its actions, the Board and its An effective Board must maintain a level of independence and committees have fulfilled their governance responsibilities and have objectivity and have the correct balance of experience, diversity worked to ensure that your investment and the assets of the business and skills.
It also needs a good understanding of the operations of remain protected.
I am delighted to lead a Board with such independence, Daniel Bernard experience, diversity and knowledge.
Chairman As a Board we take our governance responsibilities seriously.
A Board effectiveness evaluation exercise was conducted in early 23 March 2016 2016, the results of which confirmed that the Board and the Boards www.
com 39 Corporate Governance continued Composition of the Board and meeting attendance Board Leadership The following table shows the number of years each director had The role of the Board served on the Board as at the financial year end, and their attendance The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long-term at Board meetings during the year.
Committee meeting attendance success of the Company and deliver sustainable shareholder is shown in the report for each committee.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, Kingfisher plc Board direction and performance of the Company, and leads and controls the Companys business.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring Tenure in years Attendance appropriate resources are in place to achieve its strategy and deliver sustainable performance.
Through authorities delegated to its Current Directors committees, the Board directs and reviews Kingfishers operations Daniel Bernard 9 9 9 within an agreed framework of controls, allowing risk to be assessed 1 Andrew Bonfield 5 8 9 and managed within agreed parameters.
The Board is collectively Pascal Cagni 5 9 9 accountable to the Companys shareholders for the proper Clare Chapman 5 9 9 conduct and success of the business.
Anders Dahlvig 6 9 9 The Boards powers are set out in the Companys articles of 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard n a - - association, which are available to view on our website, and Vronique Laury 1 9 9 may be amended by a special resolution of its members.
Mark Seligman 4 9 9 The Board has established a formal schedule of matters reserved Karen Witts 3 9 9 for its approval, and has delegated other specific responsibilities to its principal committees: the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Former Directors who served during committees.
These are clearly defined within the matters reserved 2015 16 3 schedule and written terms of reference of the respective committees, Kevin OByrne 6 3 3 which are available on the Companys website, and are regularly 4 Janis Kong 9 8 9 reviewed.
The structure of the Board and executive committees 1 Andrew Bonfield was unable to attend the January 2016 meeting due and sub-committees are summarised in the graphic on page 44. to illness.
Information on the responsibilities and work of each of the 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard joined the Board on 1 February 2016.
Boards committees is set out on pages 46 to 75.
3 Kevin OByrne resigned as a director on 15 May 2015.
His tenure is as at During the year, as part of its annual review process, the matters his leaving date.
reserved for the Board were reviewed and where necessary amended 4 Janis Kong resigned as a director on 1 February 2016.
Janis was unable to reflect best practice.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board to attend the December 2015 meeting, called at short notice, due to a includes the consideration and approval of: prior commitment.
the Companys overall strategy, medium-term plans and During the year, the Board was made up of the Chairman, executive annual budgets: directors and a majority of non-executive directors.
The structure, financial statements and Company dividend policy, including size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure it recommendation of the final dividend: remains suitable for the needs of the business.
The current balance of major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure: the Boards skills, experience, independence and knowledge, together with regular briefings by executives below Board level, ensures that major changes to the capital structure including tax and views, perceptions and discussions are not dominated by any one treasury management: specific view.
major changes to accounting policies or practices: the Companys corporate governance and compliance arrangements: There is an established, formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of new directors to the Board, and this the system of internal control and risk management policy: is described in the Nomination Committee report on page 50.
At the the Companys risk appetite statements: Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 15 June 2016, review of management development strategy: and shareholders will be asked to approve the appointment of Rakhi Gossthe appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
Custard and the re-appointment of all other directors.
40 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 40 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Roles of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Board Effectiveness non-executive directors and Chief Executive Officer Board meetings The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board holds regular scheduled and supplementary meetings Officer are separate and clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible throughout the year, which are structured to allow open discussion.
for the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board, At each meeting the Board receives certain regular reports, which setting the tone and style of Board discussions, and creating the include an update from the Chief Executive Officer, current conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness.
trading finance including liquidity and capital expenditure reports The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for executive management from the Chief Financial Officer, and reports from the Group General of the Companys business, consistent with the strategy and Counsel & Company Secretary including governance, legal, insurance commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
Regular updates on people, sustainability and public Non-executive directors provide strong, independent and affairs are also provided at Board meetings during the year.
external insight to the Board and its committees, and have a All directors participate in discussions about strategy, trading wealth of experience and business knowledge from other sectors and financial performance, and risk management of the Company.
Mark Seligman, the Senior Independent Director SID, Comprehensive briefing papers are circulated to all directors is responsible for advising and providing additional support to the approximately one week before each meeting.
The SID is available to any significant shareholders who unable to attend a meeting may discuss any issues with the may feel they are unable to raise issues through the usual channels Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Each year the Board holds at least one meeting outside the UK, The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that good quality in a country in which the Company operates, in order to meet senior information flows from executive management to the Board and its management of the Operating Companies, experience the local committees.
The Company Secretary also advises the Board on legal, challenges they face and visit stores in the area.
In 2015 16 the Board compliance and corporate governance matters and facilitates the held meetings in Russia and France.
During their visit to Russia, they inductions and ongoing training of directors.
took the opportunity to review local market conditions and conduct The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, SID and store visits, which gave them an opportunity to obtain a customer Chief Executive Officer are available from the Companys perspective and engage with the workforce in these locations.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet regularly without the executive directors being present.
The Chairman maintains regular Independence of Non-Executive Directors contact with the SID.
At its meeting in March 2016, the Board considered the independence of each of the non-executive directors other than Activities during the year the Chairman, who was deemed independent by the Board at the During the year, as part of its regular business, the Board: date of his appointment against the criteria specified in the Code, and determined that all remain independent.
received regular strategic presentations from management and held deep dive discussions with management of the The appointment terms for each non-executive director are available Operating Companies, Digital management and Offer and for inspection at the Companys registered office.
These will also be Supply Chain management: available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
considered the Companys capital structure, cash position and capital return proposals and approved the buy-back of shares: Diversity on the Board considered regular updates on health and safety progress: The Company is proud of the level of diversity that exists on its Board.
reviewed the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policies The Board remains committed in its belief that a balanced Board, with and procedures to ensure continued compliance with the a broad range of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and UK Bribery Act: diversity, is an effective Board.
reviewed the Companys risk profile and reviewed the Companys Further information on Board diversity and how our policy on diversity risk appetite statement: influences our Board member selection process, can be found in reviewed and approved the Companys major IT programmes the Nomination Committee Report on page 50.
The Nomination and processes: and Committee considers each candidate on their individual merits, received a progress update on the Companys sustainability strategy.
regardless of gender, age, race, nationality, religion or disability.
As a Company, we encourage diversity and promote a culture of inclusion at all levels of our business.
We believe in and are committed to maximising the benefits that this approach provides.
Charts demonstrating the gender split at Board level, senior management level, and for all employees across the Company, can be found on page 21. www.
com 41 Corporate Governance continued In addition to its regular business, the Board also: The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board at its meeting in January 2016.
No significant issues were highlighted considered, discussed and approved the Companys updated and the review indicated that the Board, its committees, the Chairman strategy and five year plan, presented at the Capital Markets Day and each of the directors continued to work efficiently and effectively.
on 25 January 2016: The contribution and commitment of each director, and their reviewed and considered B&Qs transformation plans, which interaction with each other, remained good, and the challenge included proposals for store closures: offered by the non-executive directors was robust and appropriate.
considered the potential acquisition of Mr Bricolage, which in The non-executive directors, led by the SID, also conducted a the event did not proceed: performance review of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
considered and approved award levels under the 2014 15 annual bonus and the vesting of the 2012 KISS awards, as well as target The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of the directors metrics for 2015 16 annual bonuses and 2015 LTIP awards: continues to be effective and that shareholders should be supportive approved completion of the disposal of a majority stake in of their re-appointment to the Board.
Kingfishers business in China: Also during the evaluation, in considering composition and expertise, considered and supported a new renewable energy strategy: Board members noted the further enhancement of the Boards digital considered the initial People Report of the new Chief People Officer, retail experience through the appointment of Rakhi Goss-Custard as including a report on talent management processes and procedures a non-executive director.
and the results of the 2015 engagement survey: and During the year, the Board also participated in a separate Board considered and approved the appointment of Citibank N. A as Meeting Management and Information Review.
The review included the Companys new depositary bank for its Level I American one to one meetings between the Company Secretary and each Depositary Receipts Programme.
The aim of the review was to better understand the views of Board members and other stakeholders in respect of the type, Board evaluation quality, quantity and frequency of information the Board receives Each year the Board conducts a review of its performance and to carry out their duties, and to consider the time allocation and effectiveness, and that of its committees and individual directors.
The evaluation was conducted in December 2015 by way of an As a result of both the evaluation and the management and externally facilitated questionnaire followed by a series of one-to-one information review, the Board agreed to undertake the following interviews between each director and the Chairman.
The Board activities during the 2016 17 financial year: questionnaire was developed with reference to the topics discussed and recommendations made during the previous years evaluation, re-prioritise and keep the forward business agenda under review and drafted following discussions between the Chairman, the to ensure that there is sufficient time to focus on key programmes Company Secretary and the external facilitator, Lintstock.
Responses and initiatives, in particular the delivery of, and risks to, the to the questionnaire were collated and the output was used by transformation programme and the five year plan: the Chairman in his individual meetings with directors as part of keep under review the reporting of the key performance indicators the evaluation process.
The main areas considered during the of the transformation plan to ensure the Board has good visibility of evaluation were: data and information to oversee execution of the plan: and Board composition and expertise: renew focus on succession planning and talent management, with the support of the Chief People Officer.
Board dynamics: time management: The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and Board support: development in the year ahead, and the Chairman will use the output of the Board evaluation in his individual meetings with the directors development of recent strategy work: during the year.
risk management and internal control: succession planning and human resource management: and priorities for change.
Board Strategy Days In November 2015, the Board held a two-day off-site meeting in France to discuss Kingfishers future strategy and transformation programme.
The Board considered and deliberated upon Group Executive presentations on key themes: Our customers and our ambition.
The offer and supply chain.
The financial five year plan.
Transformation management, KPIs and milestones.
The Boards deliberations and challenges were integral to the development of the five year plan which was the subject of further review at a supplementary Board meeting in December 2015 and final approval in January 2016 prior to its presentation at the Capital Markets Day on 25 January 2016.
42 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 42 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Induction, information and professional development Conflicts of interest The Kingfisher directors induction programme is designed to The Company has robust procedures in place to identify, authorise develop a directors knowledge and understanding of the Companys and manage potential or actual conflicts of interest, and these operations and culture.
The comprehensive tailored programme to procedures have operated effectively during the year.
Following meet each directors specific requirements is phased to allow review of the register of directors situational and transactional feedback and further customisation of the meetings and conflicts, the Board confirmed that there were no situations of which development activities.
they were aware which would, or potentially could, give rise to conflicts with the interests of the Company, other than those that might arise The induction programme created for Rakhi Goss-Custard includes: from directors other appointments, which are set out in the directors individual one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, the Chief biographies on pages 36 and 37.
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and all other directors: Relations with shareholders meetings with management of the Operating Companies and other key senior managers across the Company: Kingfisher and the Board acknowledge the importance of having site visits to the Companys stores: effective and regular lines of communication with our shareholders.
These engagements take various forms and include presentations, briefing sessions on the activities of the committees to which she roadshows, store visits and face to face meetings and involve the has been appointed: and Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive Officer, an online resource site of key reference materials to support Chief Financial Officer and other members of the Board and the above.
If required, external training courses will be provided at the During the year we have engaged with shareholders on a range Companys expense.
of topics including: Subsequent training in specific aspects of the Companys businesses ONE Kingfisher strategy and the five year plan: is provided to directors when requested and regularly as part of financial and business performance: site visits.
Directors are briefed on issues at Board and committee meetings, for example receiving briefings on cyber risks, and relevant full and interim results, including trading updates: commercial, legal and regulatory developments.
All directors have full governance, including succession planning: and and timely access to relevant information ahead of each meeting.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman considers and Our shareholder engagement objectives extend beyond promoting addresses the development needs of the Board as a whole, if any, the investment case and matters relating to executive remuneration.
and ensures that each director updates their individual skills, Engagements also aim to develop shareholders understanding of knowledge and expertise.
For example, during the year shareholders were able to see for themselves the implementation of the Enterprise The Board also receives regular reports and feedback from Resource Planning programme with a store visit to Dublin.
Our discussions with the Companys institutional shareholders and is strategic vision and the five year plan were shared with shareholders informed of any issues or concerns raised by them.
This process and analysts at the Capital Markets Day in January 2016, which was allows directors to develop necessary understanding of the views well represented by shareholders.
of these shareholders and also enables the Board to judge whether investors have a sufficient understanding of the Companys objectives.
Annual General Meeting In addition to planned development and briefings, each director is expected to take responsibility for identifying their own individual The Board welcomes the opportunity to engage with our wider, needs and to take necessary steps to ensure that they are adequately retail shareholder base each year at the Annual General Meeting informed about the Company and their responsibilities as a director.
and the directors welcome the opportunity to meet shareholders The Board is confident that all its members have the requisite after the meeting.
knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required At the 2016 AGM, to be held on Wednesday 15 June 2016, all of the directors of a listed company.
There is also an agreed procedure resolutions will again be put to shareholders on a poll, and the whereby directors may take independent professional advice at results announced to the London Stock Exchange.
They will also be the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
published on our website, shortly after the meeting.
Further detail on the 2016 AGM can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is available at kingfisher.
com 43 Corporate Governance continued During the year, in addition to its standing agenda, the Committee Organisation and Governance Structure Group Executive Committee reviewed, amongst other matters: The Committee is comprised of the Companys Leadership Team the transformational plan, and related market announcements Kingsher Board and has the role of supporting the Chief Executive Officer, and also and disclosures, and internal communication: providing a forum for discussion of key business matters.
plans for the geographic expansion of Screwfix: The Committee has delegated authority from the Board to the Offer and Supply Chain organisation and development oversee the day to day management of the Companys operations of Unified and Unique Offer: Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Executive Committee and business performance.
Its primary focus is the development and More information on the Committees role in delivering the Unified IT platform roll out: Committee Committee Committee implementation of strategy.
The Committee reviews and reports to the Oversight of financial Oversight of the link Oversight of Board our strategy is included on page 45 Board on, amongst other things, Kingfisher performance against KPIs, HR proposals for reward and mobility practices across Kingfisher: reporting, audit and risk of reward to strategy composition and the development of talent across the management team and the wider Kingfishers principal risks and risk appetite: and succession planning Company, the principal risks impacting the Company and the steps the new ethical sourcing policy and the strategy on embedding taken to mitigate these.
Read more on page 46 Read more on page 51 Read more on page 50 sustainability in all we do.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board, amongst other things, on: strategic and business plans of individual businesses and the KPIs against which progress can be measured: Disclosure Sustainability Finance Group Health and Capital Expenditure developments in Kingfishers international retail operations: Committee Committee Committee Safety Committee Committee Supports the Audit Sets the direction of Reviews key proposals Helps the Board and Enables Company-wide strategic capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions or Committee in ensuring Kingshers sustainability from Finance, Treasury, Group Executive to drive oversight and approval disposals of businesses: disclosure and reporting approach and monitors Tax and Secretariat continuous improvement of capital expenditure financial performance, and key strategic and operational risk: and requirements are met progress against the functions, manages of health and safety projects to ensure management development and senior executive succession plans.
Companys net positive routine and administrative management for alignment with strategic targets.
Shares best business, including employees, customers, plans and required return practices across the oversight of policies and suppliers and contractors Group and supports the controls relating to Groups development of Finance the capacity and capability to deliver the Net Positive programme In addition to the Boards principal committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, the Board is supported by the work of the Group Executive Committee and its subcommittees, and the Audit Committee is supported by the work of the Disclosure Committee.
Together, these committees form a fundamental element of the Companys corporate governance framework, and their terms of reference are regularly reviewed.
Further details of each of the Boards principal committees, including membership, are set out in the reports from each of the Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code committee chairmen.
During the 2015 16 financial year, Kingfisher was subject to the September 2014 Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available from frc.
The Board is pleased to confirm that throughout the year, the Company has complied with all provisions set out in the Code.
In last years report, the Company advised that it was non-compliant with Code provision D. 1.1 in relation to grants under long-term incentive schemes.
Although the Company complied with this provision during the 2015 16 financial year, subject to shareholder approval of the new Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM, the Company will again become non-compliant with this provision of the Code.
Further information on the Remuneration Policy and information on how the Remuneration Committee considered and agreed the new Remuneration Policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 75.
com 45 44 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance During the year, in addition to its standing agenda, the Committee Group Executive Committee reviewed, amongst other matters: The Committee is comprised of the Companys Leadership Team the transformational plan, and related market announcements and has the role of supporting the Chief Executive Officer, and also and disclosures, and internal communication: providing a forum for discussion of key business matters.
plans for the geographic expansion of Screwfix: The Committee has delegated authority from the Board to the Offer and Supply Chain organisation and development oversee the day to day management of the Companys operations of Unified and Unique Offer: and business performance.
Its primary focus is the development and the Unified IT platform roll out: implementation of strategy.
The Committee reviews and reports to the Board on, amongst other things, Kingfisher performance against KPIs, HR proposals for reward and mobility practices across Kingfisher: the development of talent across the management team and the wider Kingfishers principal risks and risk appetite: and Company, the principal risks impacting the Company and the steps the new ethical sourcing policy and the strategy on embedding taken to mitigate these.
sustainability in all we do.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board, amongst other things, on: strategic and business plans of individual businesses and the KPIs against which progress can be measured: developments in Kingfishers international retail operations: strategic capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions or disposals of businesses: financial performance, and key strategic and operational risk: and management development and senior executive succession plans.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code During the 2015 16 financial year, Kingfisher was subject to the September 2014 Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available from frc.
Further information on the Remuneration Policy and information on how the Remuneration Committee considered and agreed the new Remuneration Policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 75. www.
