Governance Corporate governance appointed as Senior Independent Director and Independent Non-Executive Director respectively.
On completion of the merger on1 November 2016, Paul Bowtell was appointed asChief Financial Officer, Rob Templeman was appointed as Independent NonExecutive Director and Carl Leaver was appointed as Executive Deputy Chairman for a one-year term.
Annemarie Durbin was also appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director on24 January 2017.
At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, Christine Hodgson will be stepping down from the Board.
I would like to thank Sly, David and Christine for their contribution during their tenure on the Board.
Committee memberships Dear Shareholder Following changes to the Board, a number of changes were also I am pleased to present to you the corporate governance section made to the composition of the principal Committees.
Mark Clare ofthe first Annual Report and Accounts of the Company as was appointed as Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.
The coming together of the two and as a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration businesses presents an exciting opportunity for the merged Committee.
Stevie Spring was appointed as Chairman of the Groupto use a combined heritage of more than 230 years and Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Audit thebiggest high street presence in the industry.
This, together Committee, Nomination Committee and Social Responsibility withour digital capacity and an exciting multi-channel offer, Committee: MarkPain was appointed as a member of the givesus confidence that we can be the customers first choice.
Remuneration Committee: and Rob Templeman wasappointed Giventhe change, itisimportant that our corporate governance asamember of the Nomination Committee.
Annemarie Durbin arrangements are welldesigned and implemented.
Therefore, in hassubsequently been appointed as a member of the Audit preparation for the merger, the Companys governance structure Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and arrangements have been reviewed.
Changes were made to and Social Responsibility Committee effective on 1March 2017. thecomposition of the Committees: the Delegation of Authority Policy was reviewed andupdated to ensure it was appropriate Board evaluation forthe enlarged Group: and the Terms of Reference for all Board In late February 2017, we commenced an externally facilitated Committees have been reviewed to ensure best practice and, evaluation of the Board.
Given the relatively recent formation inthecase of the Social Responsibility Committee, to extend the ofthe current Board, itwas felt inappropriate to commence this remit of the Committee for the enlarged Group.
review at the normal time in November 2016.
We hope to be able to communicate any outcome from this review at the Annual The remuneration policy has also been revised following General Meeting.
The significant changes to the composition of the consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Details of Committees means that we will undertake the evaluation process therevised policy, which is being put to shareholders for approval for these during the second quarter of the year.
atthe Annual General Meeting, can be found on pages 66 to 77.
Board composition There were several changes to the composition of the Board in 2016 as a result of the merger.
In September 2016, Sly Bailey and David John M Kelly Martin retired from the Board and Mark Clare and Stevie Spring were Chairman Board focus during 2016 Board focus for 2017 Completed the merger of Ladbrokes plc and the Ensure the successful integration of Ladbrokes Gala Coral Group and Gala Coral Continued to implement and deliver against the Review the strategy for the new Group strategic plan Embed the culture for the new Group into the organisation Reviewed the governance structure in preparation Ensure management of the risks identifiedinthe for the merger mergerprospectus Regularly reviewed health and safety and responsible Continue to review operational health and safety, gamblingprogress securityand responsible gambling arrangements Received training on the Market Abuse Regulation Visit the Companys operations in Italy Held a deep dive on the Ladbrokes Trading department Reviewed the Groups risk tolerance and risk management systems For further details on the Boards activities during 2016, see page 47.
As previously advised, Christine Hodgson will not be seeking UK Corporate Governance Code re-appointment at the AGM.
The names and significant commitments The UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2016by the Financial of all directors are contained on pages 6 and 7.
There were no Reporting Council is available at www.
It will come into force significant changes tothose commitments during 2016. in 2017 for companies with reporting periods beginning after 17 June 2016.
This report is against the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the the Code.
This Governance section of the Annual Report, which ChiefExecutive has been clearly established, set out in writing includes the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 86 andthe andagreed by the Board.
disclosures contained in the Risks section on pages 37 to41, provides Diversity details of how the Company applied the principles and complied with The Company recognises the value that diversity brings to its the provisions of the Code during 2016.
Boardroom and believes that the Board performs better and The Board confirms that during 2016, the Company fully complied supports its overall objectives within the business strategy when with all of the provisions of the Code.
During 2017, Code provision itincludes the best people representing a range of capabilities, E. 2.4 which requires the Notice ofAnnual General Meeting AGM experience and perspectives.
In line with this, the Company aims to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the tofoster a diverse Board, including a mix of gender, ethnicity and meeting, will not be met.
This is due to the timing of completion of backgrounds.
The Nomination Committee Report on pages 55 to the merger which resulted in this Annual Report being approved by 57 contains further information on Board composition and the Board one month later than normal and therefore the Notice thecharts below illustrate the diversity of the Board.
ofAGM being sent to shareholders with less than 20 working days notice.
However, the notice period remains in compliance with Board Diversity thestatutory requirement of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has endorsed the aims of the Davis Report entitled Women on Boards and the percentage of women on the Board at the end of The Board 2016 was 22%.
The percentage decreased from 25% in 2015 following Role the merger with Gala Coral as a result of the total number of directors on the Board increasing from eight to nine.
The charts illustrate The Board provides strategic leadership and oversight.
It is the diversity of the Board in terms of gender, balance of executive responsible for the Companys culture, values and ethical directors to non-executive directors NEDs and length of tenure standardsand is committed to high standards of corporate of the NEDs as at 31 December 2016.
Following the appointment governance throughout the Groups operations.
Each director brings ofAnnemarie Durbin, the percentage of women on the Board has experience, independence of character and judgement to their role.
increased to the current level of 30%.
The independent non-executive directors bring a broad perspective to the deliberations of the Board.
They support the development ofthe Groups strategic direction, provide critical and constructive Chairman 11% Executive Male 78% challenge to the executive directors and exercise oversight through 13 years 80% Directors 33% Female 22% 36 years 20% their participation in the work of the Boards principal Committees Non-Executive Directors 56% on matters such as remuneration, risk management systems, financial controls, financial reporting, the appointment of further directors and social responsibility.
Composition Further information on diversity within the business can be found The Board is comprised of the Chairman, three executive directors, the in the Social and Corporate Responsibility report on page 62 and Senior Independent Director and five independent non-executive the Nomination Committee report on page 56.
The following sets out the division of responsibilities of the Board: Role Director Responsibility Chairman John Kelly Responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board and its effectiveness in all respects, and for relations with shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer Jim Mullen To manage the Groups operations, including the development of strategic plans and initiatives to be approved by the Board, and subsequent implementation.
Executive Deputy Carl Leaver To manage the integration of Ladbrokes and Gala Coral following the merger.
Chairman Chief Financial Officer Paul Bowtell To manage all aspects of the Groups financial affairs and to contribute to the management of the Groups operations.
Senior Independent Mark Clare To act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors Director where necessary.
Also to be available to shareholders if they have concerns, where contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve the concern, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Independent NonAnnemarie Durbin, Constructively challenge the executive directors: develop proposals on strategy: scrutinise the Executive Directors Christine Hodgson, performance of management: satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information, controls Mark Pain, Stevie Spring and systems of risk management: and to set the levels of remuneration for executive directors and and Rob Templeman senior management.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Governance Corporate governancecontinued Board and Committee support Matters reserved for the Board The Company has systems in place to ensure that the Board is The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved supplied with appropriate and timely information to enable it to for its decision and approval which includes: discharge its duties.
A fully encrypted electronic Board Portal is used to distribute Board and Committee papers and to provide Approval of the strategic and annual profit plans: efficient distribution of business updates and other resources Key announcements, e. g. financial statements: totheBoard.
Board members request additional information Dividend declarations: orvariations to regular reporting as required.
A procedure exists Board appointments: fordirectors to seek independent professional advice in the Major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
Material contracts: and Treasury policy and other Group policies.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Chairman for The section Financial reporting, internal control and risk advisingthe Board on all governance matters.
All directors have management systems on pages 48 and 49 contains further access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
information on how the Board operates.
The Committees are also provided with sufficient resources toundertake their duties.
They have access to the Company Operation of the Board Secretary who acts as secretary to all Board Committees and Board attendance allothercolleagues.
They are also able to take independent legal The Board and its Committees meet regularly according to a orprofessional advice when they believe it is necessary to do so.
schedule linked to key events in the Companys corporate calendar.
All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
Details Ad hoc meetings are also arranged to consider matters requiring oftheinduction process for Mark Clare and Stevie Spring can review and decision outside the scheduled meetings.
During the befoundin the Nomination Committee Report on page 57. year, 10 scheduled Board meetings were held.
Six additional Board meetings were held, principally to consider matters relating to A combination of tailored Board and Committee agenda items themerger with Gala Coral, such as considering and approving andother Board activities, including briefing sessions, assist the theProspectus relating to the relisting and admission of shares.
directors in continually updating their skills and the knowledge and Four Sub-Committee meetings of the Board were also held to familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their role, both on finalise certain matters relating to the merger with Gala Coral.
the Board and on Board Committees.
In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations are made available to In addition to the Board meetings, during the year, the Chairman directors.
TheCompany provides the necessary resources for met with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
developing andupdating directors knowledge and capabilities.
Attendance at Board meetings held during the year is shown below: Directors as at Number of meetings Number of 31 December 2016 eligible to attend meetings attended John Kelly 16 16 Jim Mullen 16 16 1 Carl Leaver 3 3 1 Paul Bowtell 3 3 2 Mark Clare 7 6 Christine Hodgson 16 16 Mark Pain 16 16 2 Stevie Spring 7 6 1 Rob Templeman 3 3 Former directors 3 Sly Bailey 9 7 4 David Martin 9 9 5 Richard Moross 4 3 6 Ian Bull 2 1 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016.
2 Appointed to the Board on 21 September 2016.
Mark Clare and Stevie Spring were each unable to attend one Board meeting due to business commitments organised prior to their appointment.
3 Sly Bailey ceased to be a director on 21 September 2016 and was unable to attend two Board meetings due to prior business commitments.
4 David Martin ceased to be a director on 21 September 2016.
5 Richard Moross ceased to be a director on 5 May 2016 and was unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
6 Ian Bull ceased to be a director on 26 February 2016 and was unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
com The evaluation is thematic and considers: Board activities Details of the Boards main areas of focus during the year are Board composition, expertise and dynamics: summarised below.
Board support and time management: Board Committees: Strategy, Regularly considered and assessed the strategic Strategic oversight: finance and operational performance of each business unit Risk management and internal control: and Received regular reports on the financial performance Succession planning and human resources management: and performance of the Group Held a deep-dive session with the Ladbrokes Priorities for change.
Tradingdepartment to discuss the operation of the In addition, a brief case study on the integration of the two function and see how the odds setting algorithm were offered for events covered by the business and reviewed businesses and the process followed is being undertaken.
the risk management processes As part of the Board evaluation, a separate evaluation of the Completed the merger with Gala Coral Received presentations regarding the Companys brands performance of the Chairman is being conducted.
The outcome ofthis will be reviewed by the Senior Independent Director.
Governance Following introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation and risk MAR, received formal training from the Companys The results of the evaluation will be considered by the Board during external legal advisers their meeting in March 2017.
It is intended that the Chairman will Reviewed and approved the Companys Dealing Code and the Procedures Manual relating to the systems and give a verbal update on the process at the Annual General Meeting.
controls to ensure compliance with MAR Aseparate evaluation of Board Committees will be undertaken in Reviewed and approved the revised Ethics Policy the second half of the year.
Introduced Terms of Reference for the Disclosure Committee and Finance Committee At the same time, the Chairman will conduct an appraisal of each Considered the results of the voluntary external review director.
The Senior Independent Director, in consultation with of the anti-money laundering policies andprocesses eachof the other directors, will conduct an appraisal interview Considered the re-assessment of the profile of all risks on the risk register withthe Chairman.
Reviewed risk tolerance for the Group and whether the An update on progress in these areas and subsequent reviews will processes for ensuring the necessary risk management systems and culture were embedded within the business be provided in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017.
Reviewed both the matters reserved for the Board and Delegation of Authority Policy In 2015, the annual evaluation highlighted a number of areas Reviewed the Terms of Reference for all offocus and progress against these areas is as follows: BoardCommittees 2015 area of focus Progress made during 2016 Leadership, Considered corporate culture and the results of the culture and colleague survey Enhancing the Boards Improved reporting from both the Retail colleagues Regularly reviewed health and safety engagement with and Digital businesses aided the Boards Received reports from the HR Director on issues relating the Retail and Digital understanding and engagement with these to colleagues businesses through a businesses.
As part of their induction, Mark Clare tailored programme and Stevie Spring were given inductions with the Shareholder Regularly reviewed reports on investor of operational visits operating businesses to ensure understanding.
engagement relationsactivity and management Management presentations and operational visits presentations are part of the Board and Committee agendas.
Board evaluation More effective use of The skills and talent of the non-executive the depth of talent and directors, both past and present, was a significant Following the significant changes in Board membership, with more experience that exists contribution in addressing issues arising from than 50% of the current Board having been recently appointed, it around the Board table the merger process, the time scale of which was agreed that an early evaluation of the Board was inappropriate was protracted by external issues.
It facilitated pragmatic solutions to complicated problems and would not provide value for the Board or the Company until ensuring the delivery of the transaction.
thestructural changes had started to bed in.
Following the merger with Gala Coral and the consequent appointments of three new Refreshing the Boards There has been a significant change in the membership to ensure composition of the Board with six new directors on 1 November 2016 and the subsequent appointment that the composition appointments and four departures.
These include ofAnnemarie Durbin in January 2017, it has been agreed that the is appropriate for the two new executive directors and four new nonannual formal Board evaluation, focusing on the performance of Groups next phase executives directors.
The executive directors, who the Board and individual directors, would be only undertaken during of development joined as a result of the merger with Gala Coral, bring significant industry experience whilst the the first quarter of 2017 and commenced at the end of February non-executives directors bring experience from 2017.
The evaluation is externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited.
successful careers in the private sector at the Other than the provision of a software solution to manage insider highest level.
lists, Lintstock has no other connection with the Company.
The evaluation exercise uses questionnaires tailored to the requirements and specific circumstances of the Company.
The questionnaires are completed by each director in relation to their own performance and on the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Governance Corporate governancecontinued The Finance Committee meets as required to deal with all routine Board Committees business excluding matters that are specifically reserved to the The Board has four principal Committees and two standing Board or to another Committee and specific matters delegated to it Committees: by the Board requiring attention between scheduled Board meetings.
The Group Executive Committee, Group Executive Governance Committee, Risk Committee and Investment Committee referred Board to elsewhere in this Annual Report are not formal Board Committees.
Financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control and risk management systems operating throughout the Group and Social Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility forreviewing their effectiveness.
No such systems can provide Committee Committee Committee Committee absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate therisk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide Disclosure Finance Committee Committee theBoard with reasonable assurance that potential problems willnormally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriateaction.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that the Annual Principal Committees Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Drafts of this document The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, have been reviewed by relevant Committee chairmen and other Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Social Board members.
The Board has reviewed the Annual Report Responsibility Committee.
The membership of each of the 2016and, taken as a whole, considers it to be fair, balanced and Committees is comprised of only independent non-executive understandable and provides shareholders with information directors and the Chairman, who acts as Chairman of the necessary to assess the Companys position and performance, Nomination Committee and is a member of the Remuneration business model and strategy.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Committee.
Terms of Reference for the principal Committees are Boards review draws on its collective knowledge ofthe business, available on the Companys website at www.
com which is regularly updated by management reports and investors.
Details of the responsibilities and activities of the presentations at scheduled Board and Committee meetings principal Committees are outlined in each of the respective andother business updates provided between meetings.
The Company had procedures in place throughout the year and Standing Committees upto 27 March 2017, the date of approval of this Annual Report, In addition to the principal Committees, the Board has established which accord with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal two standing Committees which review and approve routine Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by operating and regulatory matters in accordance with their respective the FRC in September 2014.
The Board has delegated the detailed Terms of Reference.
These standing Committees generally comprise design of the systems of internal control and risk management to any two of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial the executive directors.
Richard Snow, who acted as Chief Financial Officer until completion of the merger on 1 November 2016, was appointed as a member of the Disclosure Committee and the Finance Committee with effect from 26 February 2016 to 31 October 2016.
The Disclosure Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to consider and make decisions relating to the handling of inside information concerning the Company and the Group.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the timely and accurate disclosure of such inside information to the market in accordance with the Companys obligations under the Market Abuse Regulation and formonitoring compliance with the Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
com Control framework Investment The control framework and key procedures during 2016 in relation There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval to the financial reporting process were as follows: ofinvestment expenditure and asset disposals.
An Investment Committee, reporting to the Group Executive Committee and The Group operates through two primary Business Channels and comprising of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer anumber of Business Support Units: and the Chief Operating Officer, consider all significant financial commitments, including past investment appraisals within their Operations delegated authority and review all significant financial commitments in excess of their level of authority prior to submission to the Board.
Major projects are reported on at each scheduled Board meeting.
Digital Retail Post-investment appraisals are undertaken on a systematic basis andare formally reviewed by both the Board and the InvestmentCommittee.
Corporate Communications Corporate Development Finance Risk Human Resources Information Technology An ongoing process is in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
Principal including specific Legal Marketing Trading, Pricing and Liability Management material risks and their financial implications are appraised by the Group Executive Committee which is assisted by a committee of Business Support Business Support Unit executives the Risk Committee.
This is an integral part of the strategic planning process.
The appropriateness of controls is considered, having regard to cost benefit, materiality There is an Executive Head responsible for each of these Business and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Principal including specific Channels and Business Support Units.
material risks and actions to mitigate those risks are considered Business planning atBoard meetings and are formally reviewed and approved by the Corporate strategy and Group-wide business objectives are reviewed Board twice yearly.
Each significant risk is assigned executive annually by the Board and the Group profit plan is approved by the director Executive Head ownership.
During the year, the Groups Board.
The Business Support Unit management integrate Grouprisk management systems were enhanced which included the wide objectives into business strategies for presentation to the establishment of a dedicated Internal Controls function.
A new Board with supporting financial objectives.
Operating plans for each Enterprise Risk Management Framework has been established, Business Support Unit comprise financial and operating targets, which includes an assessment of risk appetite and tolerance capital expenditure proposals and performance indicators and are withinthe Group as a whole.
The Board has conducted a robust reviewed by the Group Executive Committee.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the Group.
Details of the principal risks and how they are managed Reporting and oversight areshown on pages 37 to 40.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Heads comprise theGroup Executive Committee and meet bi-monthly to consider Policies and controls Group strategy, financial performance, business development and Key policies and control procedures including treasury, compliance management issues.
On alternate months, the Group Executive and information system controls are documented and have Committee also meet as a Governance Committee for the Group-wide application.
There are also operating procedure operational business to review risk, compliance, corporate manuals that are integrated with Group-wide controls.
High responsibility and health and safety from an operational standards of business ethics and compliance with laws, regulations perspective.
Other senior executives participate as appropriate.
and internal policies are demanded from colleagues at all levels.
Inaddition, there are weekly and monthly financial and operational Tounderpin the effectiveness of controls, it is Group policy to review meetings together with an annual programme of recruit and develop management and other colleagues of high reforecasting and strategy reviews attended by the Chief Executive calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
A system of Officer and Chief Financial Officer together with, as appropriate, bi-annual self-certification of compliance with key controls and other Executive Heads and executives.
The Board regularly receives procedures is operated throughout the Group.
reports from Executive Heads covering areas such as operations, The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of forecasts, business development, strategic planning, human the systems of internal control and risk management is explained in resources, legal and corporate matters, compliance, health and the Audit Committee Report on page 51.
The Group has an internal safety and corporate responsibility.
audit function, which is outsourced to Deloitte LLP, and reports to management and the Audit Committee on Group operations.
The Board also conducts a continual assessment of the effectiveness of the control and risk management systems.
The assessment takes account of all significant aspects including risk assessment, the control environment and control activities, information and communication, and monitoring.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Governance Corporate governancecontinued Anti-bribery and whistleblowing The Board recognises that, as a global betting and gaming business, 2016 there is potential for exposure to bribery and corruption.
Failure by During the year, the Company has reported to colleagues, suppliers or agents to comply with anti-bribery and and engaged with investors as follows: corruption legislation including the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or any failure in policies and procedures to monitor and prevent non-compliance, anywhere in Reporting event Investor engagement the world, could result in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution 2015 Preliminary Investor conference Q1 and significant damage to the reputation of the Company.
Results announced call on the 2015 Circular and Notice Preliminary Results The Board ensures that there are a number of policies, procedures, of Annual General Analyst briefing on management systems and internal controls in place across the Meeting made the 2015 Preliminary business to prevent bribery and corruption occurring.
This includes available Results policies on whistleblowing, anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship.
Supplementary audit, monitoring and review processes are designed to identify breaches of Group controls.
The Whistleblowing Policy enables and Q1 Trading Statement Investor conference Q2 encourages colleagues to report in confidence any possible announced call on the Q1 Trading malpractice, impropriety or other matters of concern which may Statement arise in the business.
Any matters raised in accordance with the 2016 Annual Whistleblowing Policy are investigated thoroughly and reports General Meeting areprovided at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Relations with shareholders 2016 Interim Investor conference Q3 Resultsannounced call on the 2016 There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional Interim Results shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects.
Analyst briefing on the In addition, presentations are made twice yearly after the 2016 Interim Results announcement of results, the details of which, together with the Groups financial reports and announcements, can be accessed atwww.
During 2016, in addition to results presentations and the Annual General Meeting, the Q3 Trading Statement Investor conference Q4 Chairman met with several institutional investors and their announced call on the Q3 representative bodies.
The Senior Independent Director and other Prospectus in relation TradingStatement directors are available to meet the Companys major shareholders to the relisting and Consultation with ifrequested.
A report on investor relations, which includes updates admission of shares major shareholders on meetings with major institutional shareholders, is given at each made available onproposed changes Board meeting.
The Companys brokers also met with the Board Prospectus in relation to the remuneration asrequired during the year.
to the issue of policy guaranteed notes Principles of ownership, corporate governance and voting guidelines made available issued by the Companys major institutional shareholders, their representative bodies and advisory organisations are circulated to, and considered by, the Board.
The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects with its individual shareholders who have an opportunity to question the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
com Audit Committee Report Composition and constitution The Audit Committee oversees the Groups financial reporting and internal controls and provides a formal reporting link with the external auditors.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which arereviewed annually, are available on the Companys website, www.
The Audit Committee currently comprises four members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board at the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which consults with the Chairman ofthe Audit Committee.
The Board has satisfied itself that the Committees membership includes at least one director with recent Dear Shareholder and relevant financial experience and have competence in I am pleased to present the activities of the Audit Committee accounting and or auditing and that all members are financially during the year.
literate and have experience of corporate financial matters.
During the year, there were a number of changes to the Alldirectors on joining the Board are given specific sector training membership of the Committee.
On 21 September 2016, toensure competence relevant to the business, in addition to the DavidMartin retired from the Board and therefore ceased to be other skills they bring to the Board and Committees.
amember of the Committee and Stevie Spring was appointed The members of the Committee that served during the year were: asamember of the Committee.
Annemarie Durbin was also appointed as a member on 1 March 2017.
Appointment date Committee role Mark Pain 3 December 2015 Chairman I would like to thank David for his contribution to the work of the Christine Hodgson 1 May 2012 Member Committee during his time as a Committee member.
Stevie Spring 21 September 2016 Member In addition to the Committees usual matters, including the Former member financial results for the full year and half year and the quarterly 1 David Martin 25 September 2015 Member trading statements, internal audit, applicable accounting policies 1 David Martin ceased to be a member of the Committee on 21 September 2016. and going concern assumptions: two additional Committee meetings were held in relation to the Prospectus relating to the Main responsibilities of the Committee relisting of the enlarged Group and other matters associated with The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: the relisting, such as the financial prospects and procedures for both Ladbrokes and Gala Coral and the combined proposals for the Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Group, and internal controls reviews for both entities.
and significant financial reporting issues and judgements: Review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and An internal review of the Committees effectiveness was carried risk management systems: out at the beginning of 2016 and, as explained in the Corporate Review the Companys arrangements for its colleagues to raise governance report, the effect of the merger and the significant concerns in confidence and procedures for detecting fraud and change in Board membership, has meant that the annual the Companys procedure for the prevention of bribery: Committee effectiveness review has been deferred until the Consider and approve the remit of work of the Companys internal secondhalf of 2017.
The 2016 review concluded that the audit function, as well as monitor and review their effectiveness: Committee continued to operate effectively.
A number of areas Oversee the relationship with the external auditor: ofimprovement were also identified, for which I will lead the Review and approve the external annual audit plan and reviewing implementation process.
the finding of the audit: Implement a policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor: and Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Mark Pain Chairman of the Audit Committee Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Governance Corporate governancecontinued embedded fully across the Groups enlarged operations: Meeting attendance Review of the external auditor: its terms of engagement: the The Committee meets as required, but not less than three times findings of its work: and, at the end of the audit process, ayear.
Other directors, including the Chief Executive Officer and reviewing its effectiveness: theChief Financial Officer, attend Audit Committee meetings.
Review of the independence and objectivity of the external TheCommittee met for private discussions with the external auditor, auditor: whose representatives attend all of its meetings, together with the Review of the Delegation of Authority Policy prior to being internal auditor, Deloitte LLP.
submitted to the Board for review and approval: Approval of updates to the Terms of Reference of the Committee Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year to reflect a wider role in respect of the oversight of the Groups and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: approach to risk management, risk management systems, Members as at Number of meetings Number of principal risks and risk appetite: and 31 December 2016 eligible to attend meetings attended Held additional meetings to consider the financial information Mark Pain 7 7 tobe contained in the Prospectus relating to the relisting of 1 Christine Hodgson 7 6 theCompany and the admission of shares, and the financial 1 Stevie Spring 2 1 prospects and procedures reports.
Former member David Martin 5 5 External auditor 1 Christine Hodgson and Stevie Spring were each unable to attend one Committee meeting due The Companys external auditor,  LLP to prior business commitments.
PwC, was appointed at the Annual General Meeting held on Post the period end, to address the complexities of reporting 7May 2014 following a competitive tender process.
The Company following the merger, the Committee has met three times in the confirms that it has complied with the Statutory Audit Services for first quarter of 2017.
Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities Committee activities Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
Following the The main activities of the Committee during 2016 included merger with Gala Coral, it is intended that the provision of thefollowing: statutory audit services to the Company and its subsidiary The critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in undertakings will be subject to a review and possible tender process connection with the preparation of the Companys financial and during 2017, with any new appointment being proposed at the related formal statements, with the assistance of reports 2018 Annual General Meeting.
received from management and the external auditor, including For the audit of the financial statements for the year ended the process for assessing whether the going concern basis of 31December 2016, the audit was led by PwC and KPMG LLP accounting remains appropriate: KPMG reported to PwC as component auditor in their capacity The review of the long-term viability statement to be included asstatutory auditor of Gala Coral.
inthe 2016 Annual Report prior to being submitted to the Board for approval: The external auditor reports to the Committee on the actions An assessment of the scope and effectiveness of the systems taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and and with best practice designed to ensure its independence.
non-financial risks: In addition, the Committee has considered and adopted a revised Monitoring the integrity and effectiveness of the Companys and updated policy on the engagement of external auditors internal financial controls by reference to: for the provision of non-audit services which can be viewed at a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls www.
The revised policy sets out b r egular reports and presentations from the heads of key risk more rigorous controls intended to ensure that the independence functions, internal audit and external audit of the external auditor is not impaired and takes into account c t he results of the system of annual self-certification of thechanges required by the EU Audit Regulation and Directive compliance with key controls and procedures: theAudit Regulation.
Thepolicy stipulates: Monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of The nature of non-audit services that the external auditor is the internal audit function, including any actions taken following notpermitted to perform: any significant failures in internal controls.
During the year, the Levels of authority for management to engage the external Committee focused on the control improvements required and auditor for approved non-audit services: and progress made.
While progress has been steady, there remain That any non-audit services to be provided by the external improvements to be made so that the necessary controls are auditor must be approved in advance by the Committee.
For a single permitted project where the fee is no more than 25,000 with a cumulative limit of 75,000, the non-audit service are considered trivial for the purposes of the Audit Regulation and can instead be approved by the Chief FinancialOfficer.
com Details of non-audit services are presented to the Committee for also enabled the Board to attest in the Prospectus issued in itsreview at each meeting.
Fees for non-audit services provided October2016 that responsibility exists for the merged entity, byPwC in the year amounted to 1.2 million 2015: 2.0 million Ladbrokes Coral Group plc, to establish procedures that provide a ofwhich 0.9 million related to one-off services provided in relation reasonable basis for making proper judgements on an on-going to the merger.
The Committee considered that PwC was best basis as to the Financial Prospects and Procedures of the Company placed to perform this work because of its knowledge of the and its Group.
Groupwhich would enable the service to be provided efficiently.
In February 2016, the Committee decided to supplement the The Committee is satisfied that the provision of approved workprogramme of our Internal Audit outsource partner, Deloitte, non-audit services has not compromised the independence with an Internal Controls team.
The remit for that team was to andobjectivity of the external auditor.
create, manage and communicate an enhanced set of Internal The performance of the external auditor is reviewed by the Controls across the Ladbrokes business and to work hand-in-hand Committee on an annual basis through a qualitative assessment with Deloitte.
ofthe services provided against the agreed audit plan and taking Deloitte LLP conducted reviews of 11 core parts of the business account of feedback received from management.
The results of this activity were reported to senior review, the Committee is satisfied that the external audit process management and the Committee with frequent follow-up testing operates effectively.
In addition, in the current year, the being performed following the initial reviews.
The remedial activity effectiveness review for the Committee will include a review by performed by the businesses has been monitored and retested by Committee members in respect of external auditor effectiveness.
the Internal Controls team and again the results reported to the Committee and senior management.
The Internal Audit Plan for Internal control 2016 was timetabled to be largely completed in the first half of the During the year, there have been a number of internal and external year to provide early visibility to the business of areas requiring activities that have focused on the control environment in the improvement: give time to implement remedial actions: and inform former Ladbrokes business, the Coral Group and the merged entity the work that PwC were doing as part of the Financial Prospects itself.
These have included: and Procedures exercise.
The full year audit of the 12 months ended 31 December 2016 In addition, the new Internal Controls team has carried out a ofLadbrokes performed by PwC for the purposes of this Annual significant number of control tests across the business.
This activity Report and Accounts: has highlighted a number of audit points of which a high proportion The half year audit of the six months ended 30 June 2016 of have now been closed by the business and subsequently retested Ladbrokes performed by PwC for the purposes of external satisfactorily.
However, certain areas were identified that could be reporting and the Prospectus: improved and, where action points remain outstanding, these have An audit of the two months ended 31 December 2016 of the been incorporated into the 2017 Audit Plan.
Coral Group performed by KPMG for the purposes of this Annual Report and Accounts: The focus for 2017 will be on the improving controls in the An audit of the 10 four-week periods ended 2 July 2016 of followingareas: theCoral Group performed by KPMG for the purposes of Reconciliation of affiliate payments in the Digital business: theProspectus: Reconciliation of bank and cash balances particularly relating A Financial Prospects and Procedures report produced by PwC to the businesses in Ireland: onthe Ladbrokes Coral Group plc business for the purposes of System access controls: and theProspectus which incorporated a Financial Prospects and Harmonisation and standardisation of the control environment Procedures report produced by PwC on the Ladbrokes plc in the combined business.
standalone business and a Financial Prospects and Procedures report produced by KPMG on the Coral Group business: and The combined business is facing several additional risks as a direct An annual Internal Audit Plan, approved by the Committee, has result of the integration.
This means that in 2017 there will be also been carried by our outsource partners, Deloitte, and a new morefocus on areas of the business affected by integration Internal Controls review team established.
wherechanges in systems, personnel or processes could lead to weaknesses in internal controls during the transitional period.
The statutory audits have not resulted in any significant control issues being brought to the attention of the Committee that wouldrequire material adjustment to the accounts.
The Financial Prospects and Procedures work concluded that both businesses have well established and robust procedures, systems, controls and people to enable them to comply with their obligations, including compliance with the listing rules and disclosure guidance and transparency rules.
The Financial Prospects and Procedures work Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Governance Corporate governancecontinued Accounting and key areas of judgement The main areas considered by the Committee in relation to 2016 are set out below: Matter considered Action Carrying value of long-lived assets and depreciable lives The Group has significant value in enduring and indefinite life The carrying value of all enduring and indefinite lived assets are assets such as licenses in the Retail estate, customer lists and tested for impairment annually.
In reaching their conclusion that goodwill which need to be reviewed for impairment.
In 2016, the treatment adopted is appropriate, the Committee have the Group has recognised an impairment charge against reviewed the forecasts, key assumptions and methodology these assets, including software rendered obsolete by the adopted by management.
The Committee have also reviewed the merger, of 190.2 million.
changes to the 2015 approach in light of the long-term outlook forthe UK Retail business, including the decision to reassess the useful economic life of Retail licences.
PwCs findings have also been considered by the Committee in reaching their conclusions over the appropriateness of the treatment within the financial statements.
Non-trading items and proforma information The Group classifies certain items as non-trading to allow a As part of their assessment that the treatment of non-trading clearer understanding of the underlying trading performance items in the financial statements is appropriate, the Committee of the business.
In 2016, the Group has recorded a nonhave considered each of the items treated as non-trading and trading charge of 284.9 million in the Income Statement.
challenged, where necessary, the treatment adopted by Inaddition, given the financial statements only include two management.
The Committee has also considered the conclusions months of trading for the Coral business, proforma financial reached by PwC as part of its audit in this area and is satisfied.
information has been provided within the Annual Report and Managements use of proforma information in explaining the Accounts to assist in the articulation of the underlying underlying business performance has also been considered by businessperformance.
theCommittee, as have PwCs views on the use of proforma information and non-GAAP measures.
The Committee has also considered the prominence given to non-GAAP measures compared to statutory measures and is satisfied with the disclosure.
IFRS 3 fair value of the Coral business Following the merger with the Coral Group, an IFRS 3 The Committee has reviewed the working papers provided by fairvalue exercise was undertaken on the Coral opening management and its advisers in relation to the fair value exercise BalanceSheet.
This resulted in a fair value adjustment andhas assessed the assumptions used and conclusions reached.
of355.8 million and goodwill arising on acquisition of The Committee has also considered the conclusions reached by 912.6million.
PwC on their work in this area and has concluded that the treatment within the financial statements is appropriate.
Taxation Accounting for uncertain tax positions and the level of the The Committee has reviewed the main judgements exercised by deferred tax recognised is based on a series of judgements, management in the recognition of deferred tax assets relating to particularly in the asset recognised in respect of losses.
The Committee has discussed and challenged the key Thenet deferred tax liability of 175.8 million contains assumptions with both management and PwC prior to forming adeferred tax asset in respect of losses of 56.5 million.
their own conclusion that the position taken is appropriate.
Inaddition the Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 57.4 million in relation to losses.
com Nomination Committee Report Composition and constitution The Nomination Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board and leads the process for the appointment of directors to the Board.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on theCompanys website, www.
TheNomination Committee comprises the Chairman and all of the independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The members of the Committee that served during the year were: Appointment date Committee role Dear Shareholder John Kelly 15 February 2011 Chairman I am pleased to present the Report of the NominationCommittee.
Mark Clare 21 September 2016 Member Christine Hodgson 31 March 2015 Member Mark Clare, Mark Pain, Stevie Spring and Rob Templeman were Mark Pain 25 January 2016 Member appointed as members of the Committee during the year joining Stevie Spring 21 September 2016 Member Christine Hodgson and myself.
Annemarie Durbin was also Rob Templeman 1 November 2016 Member appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 March 2017.
Former members These appointments further strengthened the composition 1 Sly Bailey 1 May 2013 Member of the Committee.
1 David Martin 7 May 2014 Member 2 During the year, the Committee focused on the appointment of Richard Moross 31 March 2015 Member twonew non-executive directors.
As we previously disclosed in the 1 Ceased to be a member of the Committee on 21 September 2016.
Circular to shareholders in 2015, the Merger Agreement with Gala 2 Ceased to be a member of the Committee on 5 May 2016.
Coral identified the need to change our non-executive board and we initiated a search for two new independent non-executive directors Main responsibilities of the Committee to replace Sly Bailey and David Martin who would stand down ahead The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: of completion of the merger.
Using external recruitment agents, Review the structure, size and composition of the Board, taking weidentified a short list of prospective candidates to meet the into account the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and requirements of both parties to the merger.
diversity, and to make recommendations to the Board with In September 2016, with the major hurdles to completion of the regard to any changes: merger having been overcome, the Committee proposed the Consider succession planning for directors and other senior appointment of Mark Clare and Stevie Spring to the Board and Sly and executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities David stepped down.
I have already thanked Sly and David for their facing the Company: contribution to the Board in my Chairmans statement, but would like Identify and nominate for approval by the Board, candidates to to thank them for their contribution to the Nomination Committee as fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: well.
Details of the appointment process and induction programme Prepare a job specification for the appointment of the Chairman: for Mark Clare and Stevie Spring are contained on page 57.
Identify candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director and for membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Social In January 2017, the Committee recommended the appointment Responsibility Committees, in consultation with the Chairmen ofAnnemarie Durbin as an additional independent non-executive of those Committees: and director which has improved the gender balance of the Board to Make recommendations to the Board concerning the directors 30%however, it will change during 2017 when Christine Hodgson standing for appointment and re-appointment by shareholders.
stepsdown from the Board following the Annual General Meeting and Carl Leavers one-year term is completed in October 2017.
Additionally, in 2017, the Committee will focus on: the balance ofskills and experience on the Board to ensure they remain appropriate for the enlarged Group: succession planning: and reviewthecorporate cultureto ensure it is embedded fully in the combined Group.
John M Kelly Chairman of the Nomination Committee Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Governance Corporate governancecontinued As a consequence of the changes to the Board, the Committee Meetings attendance considered the membership of the Boards Committees and The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
recommended to the Board that the following changes be made: Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year Mark Clare be appointed as Chairman of the Social Responsibility and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee: Mark Pain be appointed as member Members as at Number of meetings Number of 31 December 2016 eligible to attend meetings attended of the Remuneration Committee: Stevie Spring be appointed John Kelly 3 3 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of Mark Clare 0 0 the Audit, Nomination and Social Responsibility Committees: and Christine Hodgson 3 3 Rob Templeman be appointed as a member of the Nomination Mark Pain 3 3 Committee on completion of the merger.
Stevie Spring 0 0 Rob Templeman 0 0 Diversity Former members The Company has a well established and published equal 1 Sly Bailey 3 2 opportunities policy that guides all colleagues in how they fairly David Martin 3 3 deal with all colleagues and customers irrespective of age, gender, Richard Moross 1 1 sexual orientation, religion, disability or ethnic origin.
That policy 1 Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
applies on how people are selected to work at the Company and applies at all levels.
The Company has a succession policy that Committee activities ensures all key roles including director positions are considered The main activities of the Committee during 2016 included andthe Company considers candidates for roles from the widest thefollowing: possible field.
The Board regularly reviews succession arrangements for all key roles and the Nomination Committee reviews succession Led the processes for the review of the Board structure ahead arrangements for directors.
The Social and Corporate Responsibility ofand as part of the merger in order to create a Board with the report includes details ofwider workforce gender diversity which appropriate experience and expertise to lead the merged are shown on page 62.
In the Merger Agreement, which was The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled Women approved by shareholders at a general meeting held on 24 on Boards and when considering future appointments, with the November 2015 and as noted in the Circular to shareholders, support of the Committee, will aim to build on its current position.
itwas agreed the proposed Board of the merged Group would The Company currently has three women on the Board Annemarie consist of John Kelly as Non-Executive Chairman, Jim Mullen as Durbin, Christine Hodgson and Stevie Spring and therefore 30% of Chief Executive Officer, Paul Bowtell as Chief Financial Officer and the current Board is made up of women.
TheBoard will continue to Carl Leaver as Executive Deputy Chairman for a fixed period of ensure appropriate representation bywomen, both on the Board 12 months following completion.
Rob Templeman from Gala and throughout the business, whilstat all times ensuring the Coral and Christine Hodgson from Ladbrokes would continue as Company selects on merit.
Non-Executive Directors and three new independent nonexecutive directors would be appointed.
Following the The charts on page 45 illustrate the diversity of the Board as at appointment of Mark Pain in December 2015, a search was 31December 2016. conducted during the year for two new independent nonexecutive directors to replace Sly Bailey and David Martin who Time commitments would step down ahead of completion of the merger when it was The Committee considered the output of the 2015 Board evaluation believed that the hurdles of the competition and mergers process and attendance at Board meetings during 2016, following which the would be overcome.
Acting jointly with the Non-Executive Committee concluded that each of the current directors is devoting Chairman of Gala Coral, a widespread search was conducted for sufficient time to their duties and responsibilities and brings relevant candidates byJohn Kelly and the shortlisted candidates were skills and judgement to the work of the Board.
Each of the current considered by the Committee.
directors, with the exception of Christine Hodgson, will therefore stand Following the search for the additional non-executive directors for re-appointment at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
asoutlined above, recommended that Mark Clare be appointed to the Board as Senior Independent Director and Stevie Spring as Independent Non-Executive Director.
com Appointment of Mark Clare and Stevie Spring Appointment process Induction programme As part of the Committees role in refreshing the Board in Following the appointment of Mark Clare and Stevie Spring, ordertoachieve the talent and skills suitable for the enlarged their induction programme involved, inter alia, the following: Group, during the year, the Committee began the search for A tailored induction pack was created for each director aSenior Independent Director and a non-executive director andmade available to them on the Board Portal.
The whocould takeon the role of Chairman of the Remuneration  which was relevant to their Committee.
TheCommittee engaged independent global : searchfirms, LygonGroup and Heidrick & Struggles, who A number of induction meetings were arranged with the haveno connection withthe Company, toidentify suitable ChiefExecutive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company candidates for the two roles.
Secretary andother key senior management: A shortlist of candidates was identified and produced to the Meetings were organised with key external advisers, such as Committee for consideration.
A number of potential candidates Kepler, the Companys remuneration consultants, who met were selected and interviewed by Board members of both withStevie Spring: Ladbrokesand Gala Coral.
Training was provided by the Companys external legal advisers on matterssuch as the Market Abuse Regulation: Following a number of interviews, it was determined that Site visits were organised of the Companys main offices: MarkClare be appointed as the Senior Independent Director Site visits were arranged to some of the Companys shops: andStevie Spring be appointed as Independent Non-Executive A meeting with the UK Gambling Commission was organised: Director andwouldact as Chairman of the Remuneration and Committee.
The Committee recommended these appointments Attending the Companys bookmaking course.
to the Board, which subsequently approved theappointments with effect from 21September 2016.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Governance Corporate governancecontinued Social Responsibility Committee Report Composition and constitution The Social Responsibility Committee reviews and advises the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups strategy and policies for ensuring that it operates a socially responsible and sustainable business that protects the young and the vulnerable, ensures the business is not associated with crime and disorder and that the Groups reputational standing is maintained.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website, www.
The Social Responsibility Committee is comprised of two or more independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board on the recommendation of the Dear Shareholder Nomination Committee, which consults with the Chairman of the I am pleased to present this report on the activities of the Social Social Responsibility Committee.
Responsibility Committee during the year.
The members of the Committee that served during the year were: The membership of the Committee has changed significantly Appointment date Committee role overthe past 12 months, reflecting the wider changes across themerged Group.
In addition to my appointment as Chairman Mark Clare 21 September 2016 Chairman Christine Hodgson 3 July 2014 Member oftheCommittee in September 2016, I was joined by Stevie Stevie Spring 21 September 2016 Member Springwho was also appointed to the Board at the same time.
Subsequently Annemarie Durbin who was appointed as an Former member 1 additional member ofthe Committee on 1 March 2017.
I am Sly Bailey 25 September 2015 Chairman pleased to say that Christine Hodgson has provided the Committee 1 Ceased to be Chairman of the Committee on 21 September 2016. with continuity throughout the period.
Main responsibilities of the Committee In addition to the regular business of the Committee, it also: The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Reviewed and adopted a formal Ethics Policy for the business: Receive and review reports from management and be able to Reviewed the Groups approach to human rights and the advise the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups strategy interlocking legal requirements for compliance under the and policies for ensuring that it operates a socially responsible ModernSlavery Act.
The Groups statement on Modern Slavery and sustainable business: isnow published, as required, on the Groups website: and Receive reports, monitor performance and review Group policies Visited the Ladbrokes Responsible Gambling Team in early 2017. on regulatory compliance, including, inter alia, responsible Further details of this visit are contained on page 59. gambling, underage gambling, anti-money laundering, bribery, During 2017, the Committee will focus on the integration of health and safety, security, data protection, environmental responsible gambling processes for the two brands to create a management, human rights and ethics: oneapproach to responsible gambling.
It will also review colleague Monitor progress on the implementation of key social training and engagement, data protection and the Companys responsibility programmes and measure performance against environmental policies and procedures.
The Committee will also established key performance indicators: look in detail at anumber of the critical processes and has already Receive reports on corporate responsibility best practice: reviewed the methodology and results of individual retail outlet risk Review and approve the Groups published statements on assessments that have been carried out.
allaspects of social responsibility: Work with the Remuneration Committee to set and assess the The Corporate and Social Responsibility Report sets out in more social responsibility targets for performance based awards: and detail the areas which are within the Committees remit and the Review principal statements provided to the UK Gambling work that has been done in the year.
Commission and other industry-related regulatory bodies on matters within the Committees remit.
Mark Clare Chairman of the Social Responsibility Committee 58 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Meetings attendance The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Mark Clare and Stevie Springs Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year visitto Gateshead and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: Following the changes to the Committees membership Members as at Number of meetings Number of in2016 with Mark Clare and Stevie Spring joining in 31 December 2016 eligible to attend meetings attended September, it was agreed that they should visit the Mark Clare 1 1 Ladbrokes Responsible Gambling operations in Gateshead Christine Hodgson 4 4 aspart of their induction.
This followed the Committees visit Stevie Spring 1 1 to the operations in November 2015, which was attended by Former member Sly Bailey and Christine Hodgson.
Sly Bailey 3 3 Along with Chief Executive Officer, Jim Mullen, they met withthe Ladbrokes teams and representatives of the Coral Committee activities responsible gambling and compliance unit.
The main activities of the Committee during 2016 included The aim of the trip was to learn more about how both brands thefollowing: track potential problematic play and what measures are in Reviewed and approved the Ladbrokes Annual Assurance place to communicate with customers who are on a potential Statement that was required to be submitted to the UK trajectory to harm and how anonymous play is monitored.
Gambling Commission: Mark and Stevie spent a full day with the teams and particular Reviewed the metrics in relation to responsible gambling, attention was given to understanding the thresholds used to whichincluded challenge on entry, self-exclusions, time-outs monitor anonymous play and the information available to and reality checks: operational teams to help identify players.
Received reports on the Companys approach to customer data: Reviewed the Ethics Policy and recommended it to the Board for Mark and Stevie were given practical demonstrations of formal approval: thework of the responsible gambling team, how they piece Reviewed responsible gambling in the international businesses: together the trading habits of players and how decisions are Considered the Groups approach to supply chain management: made as to whether there is a need for direct interaction with Reviewed the Groups approach to human rights and other a customer.
This naturally led to a discussion on the training associated inter-locking legal requirements, such as the of shop colleagues and a comparison of how the two brands ModernSlavery Act: approach it.
Considered the responsible gambling targets for awards There was a discussion about why some players preferred madetodirectors and senior executives under the toremain anonymous and what could be done to help the PerformanceShare Plan: business identify problematical play in such circumstances, Considered the Companys interactions with regulatory bodies: together with an understanding of what actions could be Approved updates to the Terms of Reference of taken to contact and help those at risk.
theCommitteeto: increase the Committees remit to include data protection, While it was encouraging that both the Ladbrokes and the advertising standards and community engagement: Coral brands were on a similar journey, when it came to the review the effectiveness of policies established under areas tools they used and interaction from shop colleagues, there within the Committees remit, both in the United Kingdom were differences in approach which was noted.
The day andthe international operations of the business, including helped firm up the importance of the need to unify the jointventures: and operational procedures of both brands and move as rapidly reviewing statements and responses to enquiries provided aspossible to the adoption of one set of tools and systems.
tothe UK Gambling Commission and other industry-related Finally, Mark and Stevie were provided with an understanding regulatory bodies on matters within the Committees of how other operators approached the whole topic of remit:and responsible gambling and what the expectations were of the Following the merger with Gala Coral, reviewed responsible UK Gambling Commission.
Mark and Stevie were clear that in gambling and crime statistics for both Ladbrokes and Gala Coral.
implementing a one way approach to responsible gambling across the two UK brands, the Company must capture and develop best practice from both and in so doing set a standard that would put it into a leadership position in this vitally important area.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59
