Risk Committee Report Risk is uncertainty of outcome and represents either a threat to or an opportunity for a businesss success its business model, reputation or financial standing.
Risk is therefore closely monitored by the Company, and risk management is embedded in its culture and that of its advisers.
While is it is not possible to entirely eliminate all risk, it is possible to manage risk through a process of identication, review and mitigation, either to reduce the likelihood of a risk materialising, or in the event that a risk should materialise, to reduce any adverse impact it may have.
JLIF has a dedicated Risk Committee to leads its risk management activities.
While the Investment Adviser manages the risks facing the Company on a day-to-day basis, the Board managed via the Risk Committee retains ultimate responsibility.
Risk identication, review and mitigation Risk management is a continuous process as the risks facing the Company evolve.
New risks can emerge and risks previously identied can change either in their probability of occurrence or potential impact.
With this in mind, the Company maintains a risk register that is reviewed by the Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
This is designed to identify the principal risks facing the Company, and employs a red-amber-green system, which is based on assessment of the probability and impact of each risk identied.
The assessment is made for each risk both preand post-mitigation.
Risks classied as Red are considered very likely to occur and to have the potential to signicantly impact the Companys business prospects in the event of occurrence.
Risks classied as Amber are considered to have a medium likelihood of occurrence, with a medium potential impact should they materialise.
Risks classied as Green have a low likelihood of occurrence, and a low potential impact should they materialise.
The system described above is designed to help JLIF prioritise and focus its risk mitigation strategies and controls.
JLIFs risk register covers six main areas of risk: 1 Economic: Risk 2 Political: Identification 3 Operational: 4 Financial: 5 Taxation: and Our risk 6 Compliance and Legal.
Risk Risk process Reassessment Assessment Mitigation Plan 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 11.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational 10 Risk Risk Rating Risk Rating Risk Rating Economic Exchange rates s s s Interest and deposit rates s s s Equity market sentiment s s s Political Pressures on contract terms and or early termination s s s Change in political environment affecting PPP projects s s s UK European Union membership s s s Operational Competition for assets s s s Counterparty and demand risk s s s Supply chain s s s Asset availability s s s Lifecycle risk s s s s s s Performance of the Investment Adviser s s s Cyber risk Financial s s s Portfolio valuation s s s Renancing risk Taxation s s s Changes to tax legislation and rates Compliance s s s Regulatory compliance and change and Legal Contractual risk s s s 10 Mitigating actions are described in further detail in the table below.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Economic Exchange As at 31 December 2016, JLIF held eight s While JLIFs stated policy since launch in November 2010 ss rates investments denominated in currencies other has been not to hedge the balance sheet value of its than Sterling.
The currencies covered are non-Sterling assets, JLIF does make prudent use of foreign Euro, Canadian Dollar and US Dollar.
Together exchange hedging instruments to hedge non-Sterling these eight investments comprised 32.4% cash ows, typically looking out up to 18 months.
There is a risk that JLIFs investment policy requires at least 50% of the uctuations in exchange rates may reduce Portfolio to be UK-based at any time.
the Sterling-value of the cash ows received JLIF can draw on its revolving credit facility in the local from the investments, adversely affecting the currency and repay borrowings in the same currency from valuation of such projects and JLIFs dividend its portfolio of assets denominated in the same currency, cash cover.
Interest JLIF has exposure to interest rate risk through s JLIFs own long term cash deposits are generally minimal ss and deposit its own cash deposits, the interest payments given its approach to raising new capital.
rates on debt at the underlying projects, borrowings The senior debt at the underlying projects is typically on its revolving credit facility and on cash hedged using interest rate swaps.
deposits at the project SPVs in which JLIF JLIF has no long term gearing and the periods in which is a shareholder.
the revolving credit facility is drawn are typically short.
Sensitivities to changes in deposit rates are included in the Investment Adviser Report.
Equity There is a risk that, due to disruption to equity s The Investment Adviser and JLIFs Corporate Broker s s market markets, the Company is unable to raise new monitor market sentiment and will not recommend sentiment capital and therefore be able to repay any drawing signicantly on JLIFs revolving credit facility debt drawn on its revolving credit facility if it is considered likely that subsequent capital raising used to finance new acquisitions.
Furthermore, if JLIF was unable to raise new capital, outstanding borrowings could ultimately be repaid using distributions from JLIFs Portfolio or by disposals of projects.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Political Pressures There is a risk that political and financial s JLIF and the Investment Adviser engage regularly with s s on contract pressure could result in certain public-sector HM Treasury and other governmental PPP units in order terms counterparties seeking to use contractual to remain aware of policy developments and to represent and or early provisions to extract a financial benefit or the interests of the Company.
termination voluntarily to terminate a project.
In the event of voluntary termination, equity investors benefit from compensation provisions that, in the majority of cases, ensures that market value is received.
The Company is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP contracts in the UK, which sets out the basis on which public and private sector partners agree to work together to make savings in operational PPP contracts.
Change Concession based PPP projects form the core s JLIF closely monitors the political environment in s s in political of JLIFs investment focus.
A shift in political countries in which it invests or is considering investing environment policy away from the PPP model could to gauge political support for PPP.
affecting compromise JLIFs ability to access new PPP projects and impact the way it engages with projects public-sectors clients.
s UK In June 2016, the UK voted in favour of s The mitigation measures for the risks associated with this s European leaving the EU.
As a result of this outcome, event are those described above in respect of interest and Union there is likely to be a prolonged period of deposit rates and with respect to ination rate risk are as membership market uncertainty, which may see greater follows.
Before making any investment, JLIF undertakes volatility in macroeconomic indicators.
sensitivity analysis to establish the correlation of such investment to ination and takes this into consideration in its investment decision and valuation.
JLIF discloses to shareholders bi-annually the sensitivity of the Portfolio to ination, thereby affording the ability to anticipate the likely effect of changes in ination.
JLIF takes a long term view of ination, both in valuing its current Portfolio and in valuing potential new investments.
Where possible, ination assumptions are benchmarked to independent sources.
Competition There is an over-supply of capital seeking s JLIF benets from an experienced Investment Adviser s s for assets investment in PPP infrastructure projects and with significant knowledge of the infrastructure market an under-supply of projects to which to deploy and appoints a team of external advisers to undertake that capital, particularly in the UK.
This has the due diligence on assets prior to investment in order to effect of increasing asset pricing.
There is a establish a fair market valuation.
risk that JLIF over-pays for an asset or that The Investment Adviser seeks to establish bi-lateral JLIFs ability to continue to grow its Portfolio investment opportunities by developing long term is restricted.
relationships with potential vendors and co-shareholders in order to avoid competitive auction processes.
JLIF also benets from two First Offer Agreements with John Laing Group plc giving it the right of first offer over a significant portfolio of infrastructure projects.
JLIFs investment policy provides it with scope to invest up to 50% of the Portfolio by value in projects located outside of the UK.
This gives it the ability to operate in markets that are not characterised by the same degree of competition as the UK, where better value is more readily achievable.
The Investment Adviser maintains a global view with respect to originating new investment opportunities.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 13.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Operational Counterparty There is a risk that one of JLIFs clients has s With a Portfolio of 62 assets, JLIFs exposure to any s s and demand financial difficulties and is unable to meet its single counterparty is considered low, with the impact risk payment obligations as they fall due under a of any single counterparty failing being reduced.
PPP agreement, thereby adversely affecting JLIFs investment policy dictates that JLIF invests only in the project cash ows.
jurisdictions where public-sector or government-backed obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where In respect of JLIFs investment in the contract structures and their enforceability are reliable.
Connecticut Service Stations project, where some of the revenue is related to the level of Prior to making an investment in a project with demand usage, there is risk that, for reasons outside risk, JLIF undertakes detailed review of the key factors of the control of the project company, this that drive demand.
JLIF procures the advice of third party may be less than forecast assumed at the experts and believes that its assumptions in respect of time of investment.
JLIFs Investment Policy limits the percentage of Total Assets invested in projects with revenues exposed to demand risk to no more than 15%.
Supply chain The project companies in which JLIF invests s JLIFs Portfolio provides good diversication, reducing s s have agreements with sub-contractors to the reliance on any single sub-contractor, and supply chain provide facilities management and SPV diversication is considered on a frequent basis by the management services.
There is a risk of poor Company and prior to any new investment.
performance by such sub-contractors that In the event of poor performance by a sub-contractor, could adversely affect the project cash ows.
the agreements include provisions allowing the SPVs in which JLIF invests to pass-down performance penalties There is a risk in the event of having to to sub-contractors and ultimately to terminate and replace replace a sub-contractor that a replacement with another provider.
Thresholds are set such that this can sub-contractor may only be found at a higher be done prior to any performance penalties i. e. deductions cost, which may not be recoverable.
are incurred by the SPV itself.
s Asset The majority of the revenues received by the s Unavailability can be caused by a number of factors but s availability SPVs in which JLIF invests are dependent on is most likely to be caused by underperformance of a the relevant asset being available for use and service delivery partner.
Through its director representation meeting certain performance criteria.
In the on each of the SPV boards, JLIF is able to monitor event an asset is deemed either wholly or operational performance and to identify and correct any partially unavailable, deductions can be trends early.
enforced by the public-sector counterparty, Contractual provisions allow performance deductions adversely affecting revenues and project to be passed-down to the sub-contractor at fault, cash ows.
although such provisions may include caps relating to sub-contractor liability.
As discussed above, ultimately a sub-contractor may be terminated for continued poor performance and replaced.
Lifecycle During the life of a project, there are a s While in some projects this risk is passed-down in full ss risk number of items that may need replacing to sub-contractors, on other projects this risk is retained e. g. elevators, air conditioning equipment, by equity shareholders.
As part of JLIFs due diligence ooring etc..
There is a risk that the actual process, it appoints experienced technical advisers to opine cost of replacement is greater than the forecast on the adequacy of the lifecycle cost prole within the cost or the actual timing of replacement is financial model used to derive JLIFs valuation of the sooner than forecast.
Benchmarking is also undertaken against other similar projects within JLIFs Portfolio to verify further the adequacy of the lifecycle cost prole.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Operational continued Performance The success of the Company depends to a s The Investment Adviser has a strong record of s s of the large degree on the skill and ability of the accomplishment of investing and managing infrastructure investment Investment Adviser to identify, acquire and projects.
JLCM, being a wholly-owned subsidiary of John adviser manage JLIFs investments.
Unlike some of Laing Group plc, has access to the depth of resource the Companys peers, the Investment Adviser provided by its parent company, as well as robust policies, is owned by a corporate group, John Laing procedures, compliance systems and risk controls.
John Group plc, and accordingly, John Laing not Laing Group plc has significant personnel to draw from to the Investment Adviser team have ultimate provide the services under the Investment Advisory responsibility for setting the Investment Agreement.
Ultimately, in the event of ongoing Advisers strategy and remuneration underperformance by the Investment Adviser, JLIF has structures for the team as well as being the the ability to serve notice and to replace JLCM as beneciary of the profits of the Investment Investment Adviser.
A performance deterioration by the Investment Adviser, which may be as a result of lack of resource or loss of experienced personnel, would have a material impact on the Companys performance.
Cyber risk There exists an increasing threat of s JLIF, the Investment Adviser and the SPVs IT providers s s cyber-attack in which a hacker or computer have procedures in place to mitigate cyber-attacks and virus may attempt to access the IT systems business continuity plans.
Data is separately stored on of the Group, the Investment Adviser or one multiple servers, which is backed-up regularly.
IT controls of the SPVs, and attempt to destroy or use are regularly reviewed, including by external specialist IT this data for malicious purposes.
While JLIF companies, to ensure they remain robust and provide a considers it unlikely to be the deliberate sufficient level of protection.
target of a cyber-attack, there is a possibility that it could be targeted as part of a random or general act.
Financial Portfolio The principal component of the investments s An independent verication exercise of the methodology s s valuation of the Company is its Portfolio of PPP assets.
and assumptions applied by JLCM is performed by a JLCM is responsible for preparing a fair leading accountancy rm and an opinion provided to the market value of the Portfolio, which is Board.
Additionally, the methodology and assumptions are presented to and approved by the Board.
subjected to significant external audit scrutiny and challenge.
There is a risk that the valuation is not a fair The financial models are generally subject to audit by reection of the market valuation i. e. the external accountancy rms, which is designed to identify Portfolio is overor under-valued.
This risk is a and remove errors.
As a control, JLCM also reviews the function of the financial models, both at the actual performance of investments against past projected Group and underlying project level, on which performance, with significant deviations indicating a the valuation is based, which may contain requirement to review a model for inaccuracies or errors.
incorrect assumptions, and programming, logic or formulaic errors, thereby resulting in inaccurate outputs.
Renancing The majority of projects in JLIFs Portfolio s JLIF takes advice from the Investment Adviser that has s s risk have in place long term debt broadly matching good knowledge of project finance and the debt markets the duration of the concessions.
However, and from independent experts familiar with the relevant the Connecticut Service Stations project has debt markets and is confident in the prudence of its senior debt maturing in 2023.
In addition, forecast assumptions where this risk exists.
However, while the two Barcelona Metro Stations certain macroeconomic conditions are outside of the projects have long term debt in place, both control of the Company.
Projects with this risk are include terms which require the use of equity therefore valued at a higher discount rate to compensate distributions to pay down debt.
There is a risk for the additional degree of risk retained by equity.
that renancings cannot be achieved at forecast rates and costs, or at all, adversely affecting the distributions received by JLIF and hence the valuation of such projects.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 15.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Taxation Changes There is a risk that changes to the tax rules or s JLIF works closely with expert tax advisers and adopts s s to tax rates e. g. BEPS, cross-border tax treatment what it believes to be a conservative position with regard legislation etc.
across the jurisdictions in which JLIF to tax planning.
That said, other than participating in and rates invests could result in JLIF, or the SPVs in industry consultation process, there is little within the which JLIF invests, having to pay more tax, power of the Company that it is able to do to mitigate adversely affecting either the distributions changes in corporation tax rates and tax legislation.
The received from the Portfolio or distributions diversication across jurisdiction offered by JLIFs Portfolio paid to shareholders in JLIF.
provides an inherent degree of mitigation against this risk.
With respect specically to the OECDs Base Erosion profit Shifting initiative, the Company continues to monitor and participate in consultation processes with HMRC, and seeks advice from independent tax experts as to the ramications for JLIF.
The final legislation is due to be enacted from April 2017.
Compliance and Legal Regulatory JLIF is required to comply with certain UK s JLIF and the Investment Adviser monitor regulatory s s compliance Listing Rules applicable to Premium listings developments and seek independent professional advice and change as well as rules relating to the Guernsey in order to manage compliance with changing regulatory Financial Services Commission.
Where appropriate, JLCM participates in that failure to comply with any of the relevant consultation processes to ensure that the views of the rules could result in a negative reputational or Company are heard by the legislature.
Contract The projects in which JLIF invests rely on s Such contracts have been entered into usually only after s s risk complex contractual arrangements in order lengthy negotiations and with the benefit of external legal to operate as intended.
There is a risk that advice.
JLIF engages legal advisers when undertaking such contracts do not operate as intended, due diligence on potential investments to understand the are incomplete, contain unanticipated risks retained by the SPV.
liabilities, are subject to interpretation JLIF seeks to mitigate the risk of over-paying by contrary to JLIFs expectations, or otherwise undertaking a structured due diligence process, with fail to provide the protection anticipated.
the support of independent expert advisers with strong There is a risk that due diligence does not market knowledge, and often with familiarity of the reveal all the facts and circumstances of a specic project itself.
particular project, resulting in over-paying for an investment.
Long Term Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over the The sensitivity analysis was premised on a number of assumptions, three-year period to December 2019, taking account of the Companys including that the Companys revolving credit facility remains in place current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented and is available to provide short term finance for future acquisitions in the Risk Committee report.
Based on this robust assessment, the undertaken in the period, that there will be sufficient liquidity within the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able market to raise new capital as and when required, that the Investment to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Adviser continues on the same terms as those existing and that there period to December 2019. is no annual uplift in dividends paid to shareholders.
In making this statement, the Directors have considered and challenged The Directors have determined that a three-year look forward to the reports of the Investment Adviser in relation to the resilience of December 2019 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability the Company, taking account of its current position, the principal risks statement.
This is consistent with the outlook period used in economic facing it in severe but possible scenarios, the effectiveness of any and other medium term forecasts regularly prepared for the Board by mitigating actions and the Companys risk appetite.
Where possible, the Investment Adviser and is the outlook period generally used by the sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to consider the potential Board in its consideration of any new strategies.
These reviews consider impacts of such risks on the business model, future performance, both the market opportunity and the associated risks, principally the solvency and liquidity over the period.
The sensitivity analysis ability to raise third party funds and invest capital.
undertaken considered the impact of a significant proportion of the The Directors view on the going concern status of the Company can be Portfolio not yielding, which is a plausible consequence of a number of found in the Report of the Directors.
the principal risks should they materialise, either in isolation or in parallel.
