Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Policy The JLIF Board and its Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, are committed to environmentally and socially responsible investing and understand the need to carry out our activities in a sustainable manner.
JLIF recognises the environmental, social and economic needs Community Engagement of the communities in which it works and looks for suitable At our North Swindon Schools project, the project company opportunities to engage and support communities, by using continued its sponsorship of the Isambard Community School and the skills, time and financial support of its staff and those of the Nova Hreod Academy to the Princes Teaching Institute.
The commitment to environmental and Institute helps teachers rediscover their love of their subject, social responsibility is delivered through programmes directly inspiring them to bring the latest thinking into their classrooms supported by JLIF and through the activities of JLCM and and supporting them to make lasting improvements in how they JLIFs other partners who manage the projects and provide teach.
It re-engages teachers with their specialist subjects, inspiring facilities management services to the projects in JLIFs Portfolio.
them to bring renewed enthusiasm into their classrooms and raise JLIF actively encourages its partners to engage with the local the aspirations of their pupils.
communities in which our projects are located.
It is the At our Peterborough Hospital project, the project company liaised engagement of these teams that operate our assets on a daily with the specialist dementia nurse to identify ways by which the basis and support the communities in which they operate that hospital environment could be improved to benefit patients suffering makes the greatest difference.
A number of the ESG activities from dementia.
A number of changes were identied and funded that have been undertaken during 2016 are detailed in the by the project company, including the introduction of blue crockery, following section.
new dementia friendly signs on five inpatient wards and Trust-wide plain curtains in calming colours.
Research has shown that patients living with dementia nd hospital environments less confusing Leed's Got Talent, 2016 when there are clear directions on signs that support way nding Children representing various schools at JLIF's Leeds and navigation.
Plain coloured curtains and environments, as Combined Secondary School's project competed to take opposed to patterned ones, help generate a greater feeling of safety.
home the prizes at this year's Leed's Got Talent event.
At our Leeds Schools project, the project company sponsored, organised, compered and funded in full a Leeds Got Talent event in which each school Ralph Thoresby School, John Smeaton Academy, Cooperative Academy, Carr Manor High School, South Leeds Academy and Shakespeare Primary put forward two acts to perform on the evening, with each act including up to 20 pupils.
The venue, the New Dock Hall at the Royal Armouries Museum in Leeds, opened at 2pm to allow the acts to familiarise themselves with the space and their surroundings, and all the children were provided with a healthy option meal before they performed.
The event was linked to Leeds City Councils Children and Young Peoples Plan, and was open to all pupils including those with special educational needs and provided the opportunity to participate in an event in front of their peers.
The event also helped to instil positive behaviour, promote working as a team, physical activity a number of the acts included dance routines and foster relationships between pupils from different schools.
Participation in previous events like this have also been shown to help improve the social and emotional well-being of the pupils who take part, helping them to feel that they have a voice and inuence.
The event received critical acclaim by both those who took part and those forming part of the audience: I just wanted to say thank you for organising the event on Wednesday.
It was an amazing opportunity for my students, one that is rare and unforgettable for them.
They are still so excited if not exhausted from the day and have thoroughly enjoyed the experience.
We are looking forward to next year already!
John Smeaton Academy Teacher You gave these children an experience that no one can ever take away from them and they will carry it with them for the rest of their lives, that is a great achievement and one you should be very proud of, well done Leeds City Councillor 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 37.
We would like to congratulate every one of the pupils that took Materiality part, and particularly Dance Legacy from Carr Manor High School Carbon Trust Certication Limited has veried that all material that was awarded first place.
Lectryx from the Cooperative non-conformities identied during the sampling performed on the Academy came a close second, with JSA Choir from John footprint submitted have been closed and that no material errors, Smeaton Academy claiming third place.
At our Miles Platting Social Housing, the project company partScope 1 GHG emissions represent JLIFs share of direct emissions funded and helped prepare a successful bid for National Lottery from the project facilities, typically through the consumption of gas.
funding for a new community garden designed to help promote Scope 2 emissions are JLIFs share of indirect emissions from the informed food choices and healthy eating through a weekly project resulting from the generation of purchased energy.
after-school club with pupils from one of the local schools.
2016 2016 Surplus produce from the garden is donated to a local church 17 18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m 2 2 to help provide meals at their homeless shelter.
Scope 1 29,745 0.03 Scope 2 98,180 0.09 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement JLIF is an investment company and as such holds equity and Total 127,925 0.12 sub-ordinated debt interests in its underlying investments.
The approach that it has used to consolidate its greenhouse 2015 2015 gas GHG emissions reects this structure and aggregates 19 18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m 2 2 JLIFs equity share of emissions from each asset.
In collating its data, JLIF has considered the GHG emissions from the facilities Scope 1 27,239 0.03 that it manages for the public-sector.
However, JLIF does not have Scope 2 99,346 0.11 direct control over the energy usage of the facilities it manages Total 126,585 0.14 as these are controlled by their public-sector end-users.
As such, JLIF has limited ability to directly inuence or reduce the energy consumption of the facilities.
In demonstrating our environmental stewardship, JLIF also participates in the public reporting of its GHG emissions through Carbon Trust Certication Limited has veried that John Laing CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our responses Infrastructure Fund Ltd has reported a carbon footprint of from 2013 onwards can be reviewed on the CPD website, 127,925 tCO e in accordance with the measurement requirements 2 www.
of the Carbon Trust Standard and in accordance with the principles of the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol.
Our footprint has been veried for the period of 1 July 2015 APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT to 30 June 2016 and certication corresponds to the following boundary: Paul Lester CBE Organisational Boundary Chairman All global investments less social housing.
20 March 2017 Operational Boundary Equity approach over Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Electricity, Gas and Fuel Oil.
17 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016.
As such, these are not consistent with the time period of the rest of the financial statements being 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016.
Assets acquired during the financial statements period are excluded from the GHG emissions data reported.
18 CO tonnes per m of Net Asset Value.
2 19 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015.
As such, these are not consistent with the time period of the rest of the financial statements being 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
