GOVERNANCE The composition of the Committee Audit Committee report The Committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out its membership during the year.
Members: PHILIP BROADLEY CHAIR OF THE Philip Broadley from 8 July 2016 Chair since 1 October 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE Lesley Knox from 1 June 2016 Richard Meddings Toby Strauss from 1 January 2017 Olaf Swantee until 26 May 2016 Julia Wilson Chair until 1 October 2016 Lizabeth Zlatkus until 31 August 2016 Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include the following: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Financial Officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Director of Group Finance: Group Chief Internal Auditor: Legal & General Retirement Finance Director: LGIM Finance Director: Group Actuary: Chief Tax Officer: Representatives of the external auditor,  LLP PwC.
The Committees remit covers accounting and financial reporting, internal controls and the external audit.
A particular focus during the year was the tender for a new external auditor Letter from the Chair It is worth highlighting that all Committee members, with the exception of Lesley Knox, are also members of the Group Risk Dear Shareholder Committee, ensuring effective co-ordination and the appropriate I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for identification and management of any overlapping issues.
The aim of the report is to explain the work undertaken by the Committee during Periodically the Committee meets individually with each of the year as well as meeting the disclosure requirements set the external auditor and the group Chief Internal Auditor.
The out in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
purpose of the meetings is to allow the parties to raise and In particular, we explain the significant accounting issues discuss issues directly with the Committee.
Committee considered by the Committee.
These are set out on page 63. members regularly meet with management outside formal Committee meetings to discuss topical issues.
It is important that the Committee operates effectively and efficiently.
Accordingly, the members of the Committee need During 2016, the Committee met five times in accordance with to have the right balance of skills and experience to deliver the annual plan and scheduled additional meetings in relation its responsibilities.
The Committee members have a variety to specific matters requiring its consideration, most notably of backgrounds, including appropriate sector and financial in relation to the external audit tender undertaken during the experience, ensuring material aspects of our business are year.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed on an appropriately represented.
This is particularly important in light annual basis and the current terms of reference, reviewed in of the changes made to the Code in 2016, which apply to December 2016, are available on our website.
The Committees the company from 1 January 2017.
Financial literacy remains time over the course of the year included consideration of a a key consideration when appointing members, particularly variety of matters, including, but not limited to: to ensure that at least one member has recent and relevant Half year and year-end financial reporting financial experience.
I, as Committee Chair, amongst others, Solvency II matters am considered to have such experience.
During the year Monitoring and reviewing internal control under review, Lesley Knox and I joined the Committee and Olaf Swantee and Lizabeth Zlatkus stepped down.
On behalf The effectiveness and work of both the internal of the Committee, I would like to thank Olaf and Lizabeth for and external audit functions their valuable contribution during their tenure.
Since the year end, we have also invited Toby Strauss to join the Committee.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 61 GOVERNANCE Planning and conducting a tender for the provision Internal control management: of future external audit services Considering the findings of the internal audit functions reviews and managements responses.
These reviews Asset valuations and actuarial matters covered areas such as capital management and model Tax strategy risk, IT security, transformation programmes, product Closure of our Kingswood office governance and conduct risk Cofunds disposal Reviewing and advising the Board on the content and As anticipated in last years Committee report, this year we clarity of disclosures in the directors statements related have conducted a tender for the future provision of external to internal controls and risk management audit services.
This concluded in the appointment, subject to Considering the internal auditors audit plans shareholder approval, of KPMG LLP as the groups external External audit and the external auditor: auditor commencing with the audit of the financial year ending Assessing the effectiveness of the annual external audit 31 December 2018.
They will be invited to observe the audit through discussions with the external auditor on the of the financial year ending 31 December 2017 conducted by scope and planning of their audit for the forthcoming year PwC to ensure an orderly and efficient transition.
and subsequently monitoring the execution The information on the following pages sets out in detail the Reviewing the extent of non-audit services provided activities of the Committee during the year.
I hope that you by the external auditor and monitoring the objectivity will find this report useful in understanding our work.
and independence needed in the conduct of the audit Setting the fees of the external auditor for the conduct of the audit Conducting a tender for the future provision of external Philip Broadley audit services Chair of the Audit Committee Accounting and financial reporting The Committee is responsible for reviewing the half year How the Committee spent its time in 2016 and annual financial statements and the significant financial The Committee is a Board Committee with governance reporting judgements.
It is also responsible for reviewing responsibilities that include the oversight of financial the groups Solvency II balance sheet and own funds.
The Board has delegated The significant accounting issues considered in relation to to the Audit Committee the following principal responsibilities the 2016 financial statements are detailed on page 63. to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities with In collaboration with the Group Risk Committee, the regards to monitoring the integrity of the groups financial Committee also reviews the disclosures to be made in relation statements, monitoring the effectiveness of the internal to internal control and risk management, and principal risks control including financial internal control framework and and uncertainties.
the independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for advising the An important focus of the Committee in its work is assisting Board on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as the Board in ensuring that the annual report and accounts, a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and the basis taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable FBU on which the Board provides the viability statement.
These and provides the information necessary for shareholders to considerations have been factored into our year-end processes.
assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considers the Code The Committees terms of reference, which set out full details provisions which require the Board to make this statement of the Committees responsibilities, can be viewed on our on the report, together with information on the processes website, www.
com investors corporateto support the statement to be made.
Robust year-end governance processes are in place to support The Committee has an annual work plan aligned with the the Committees considerations, which include: financial reporting cycle of the company.
The Committees activities fall into three principal areas: Ensuring that all of those involved in the preparation of our annual report have been appropriately trained and Accounting and financial reporting: fully briefed on the FBU requirements Reviewing the half year and annual financial statements Internal legal verification of all factual statements, and ensuring that the Strategic Report is consistent together with legal verification of descriptions used with the financial statements including the level of within the narrative insurance provisions and reserves and other significant areas of judgement Regular engagement with and feedback from senior management on proposed content and changes Reviewing the groups going concern assumptions and the proposed viability statement Reviewing the groups Solvency II balance sheet and own funds Reviewing the external auditors reports on the half year and annual financial statements and the groups Solvency II balance sheet and own funds 62 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE Feedback from external advisors corporate reporting The Committee, together with the Group Risk Committee, specialists, remuneration and strategic reporting advisors, reviewed the key assumptions and methodologies of the external auditor to enhance the quality of our reporting risk-based capital model as well as related Solvency II disclosures and the proposed disclosures pertaining to Early opportunity for review and feedback on our annual the groups economic capital disclosure.
report by Committee members During the year, the Committee has continued to keep abreast of The Committee, having completed its review, recommended to significant and emerging accounting developments, in particular the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2016 annual report is proposed changes to IFRS relating to insurance accounting.
fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
significant accounting issues considered by the Committee Issue Committees response Valuation of complex investments: The valuation of CDOs, new asset classes and new transactions require the use of complex models and management judgement.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the valuation Mark to model investments can involve significant process for these investments is robust.
judgement and can produce valuation challenges for investments in new asset classes.
The Committee reviewed the processes and controls over investments valuations.
In particular, the Committee reviewed the valuation uncertainty policies and governance Mark to model valuations inherently include including managements assessment of valuation uncertainty by asset type.
assumptions that lead to the existence of a range of plausible valuations for financial instruments The Committee concluded that there are appropriate controls surrounding the valuation of known as valuation uncertainty.
Certain assets complex assets and that they are valued appropriately for inclusion in the financial statements.
are subject to a higher degree of valuation uncertainty particularly where valuations are modelled using non-market inputs or the valuations are affected by other factors such as illiquidity of the asset.
Valuation of non-participating insurance liabilities The Committee has reviewed the methodology for calculating reserves including the insurance: allowance made for payments to and from reassurance counterparties.
The assumptions for the rate of future mortality and morbidity how many customers will die or become ill The non-participating insurance liabilities for during the policy term and persistency how many customers will discontinue cover are protection contracts are an important driver of the based on the companys internal experience and use judgement about how experience may profitability for this line of business and require vary in future.
judgements to be made regarding the assumed rates of mortality and persistency.
The company The Committee reviewed the assumptions and the expected level of prudence taking into makes extensive use of reassurance to reduce account market benchmarking, internal experience studies and the reinsurance structure.
The Committee also considered the internal control environment in place to control the valuation models.
The Committee concluded that the insurance liabilities of the Insurance division are appropriate for inclusion in the financial statements.
Valuation of non-participating insurance contract The Committee evaluated the significant judgements that have an impact on the valuation liabilities retirement: of non-participating insurance liabilities for retirement products.
This included considering: The non-participating insurance liabilities for Valuation interest rates which are used to discount the liabilities.
These are sensitive to retirement products are significant in size and judgements made, for example, on credit default of the backing assets, as well as the their estimation is inherently judgemental.
investment data used to calculate the yield on these assets and the methodology used to model the asset cash ows to calculate the internal rate of return.
The Committee focused on managements proposed changes to reserving assumptions, other modelling changes, and the determination of the credit default assumption.
This included analysis of internal historic data and external market experience.
Longevity assumptions which estimate how long policyholders receiving annuity payments will live.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of the controls over the accuracy and completeness of the data used in determining the longevity assumptions and the validity of independent industry data supporting those assumptions.
The Committee also reviewed available data illustrating recent trends in longevity experience in the UK population and the longevity experience on different blocks of business.
The Committee concluded that the retirement insurance contract liabilities are appropriate for inclusion in the financial statements, reflecting the asset risks and the available data on policyholder longevity.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 63 GOVERNANCE | AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Internal control The external auditor In collaboration with the Group Risk Committee, the Each year, the Committee reviews the external auditors Committee, on behalf of the Board, seeks to ensure that the audit plan to ensure it aligns with the Committees view group operates within a framework of prudent and effective of the areas of significant risk of financial misstatement.
controls that allow risk to be identified, assessed and managed.
The Committee receives regular reports from the external The Committee considers the control environment and related auditor on audit findings and significant accounting issues.
issues, root causes and management responses and actions.
In 2016, the Committee continued to focus on the assurance work undertaken by the external auditor in relation to IFRS The groups control policies and procedures, which are in and Solvency II.
accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external business reporting, have been in place during 2016 and up auditor against some of the following criteria: to the date this report was approved.
The groups system of Delivery of an efficient audit and the ability to meet internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate objectives within the agreed timeframes risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Maintaining a professional and open dialogue with the assurance against material loss.
Committee Chair and members at all times During 2016, the Committee was supported in its activities The quality of its audit findings, managements response by regular reports from the groups internal audit function on and stakeholder feedback their audits and their assessment of the control environment.
Provision of timely and accurate industry specific and The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the groups technical knowledge internal audit function, including internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as how the function interacts with The Chair of the Committee regularly meets the external management and the business divisions.
In particular, it auditor throughout the course of the year.
The Committee evaluates the alignment of the internal audit plan with the also meets the external auditor in private throughout the year.
groups key risks and strategy.
The Committee reviews and approves the terms of In 2016, there has been a significant focus on the continuing engagement of the external auditor and monitors its implementation of the Solvency II programme.
This includes overseeing, and in certain Committee closely monitored a review of IT system controls.
circumstances approving, the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The non-audit services policy All significant internal audits were reported to the Committee, prohibits the auditor from providing the following services: which also reviewed progress against the internal audit annual plan, including resource requirements, and monitored the Tax advice and compliance resolution of open audit issues.
Management or decision-making The Committee received and considered reports from the Bookkeeping and preparing accounting records external auditor on its assessment of the control environment or statements as well as reports from senior management on its response Payroll services to internal control recommendations made by internal audit Design or implementation of internal controls and the external auditor.
The internal control and risk management systems cover the groups financial reporting Valuation process and the groups process for preparation of Legal, internal audit or human resources consolidated financial statements.
Financing capital structure or allocation or investment The Committee has concluded that the systems of internal strategy advice controls and risk management within the group are effective.
Promoting, dealing in or underwriting share issues No significant control failings or weaknesses were identified The Committee is cognisant of the requirements governing during the period under review.
the appointment of an external auditor, notably the requirements of the Competition and Markets Authority CMA in relation to the mandatory re-tendering of audit services every 10 years, together with the European Unions requirements for mandatory audit firm rotation.
The company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the CMAs Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
64 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE As advised last year, PwC has been the groups external Analysis of current and prior year spend on audit, other auditor for a number of years.
The audit was last tendered in assurance and non-assurance services m : 2016 2015 full in 2006 with a partial re-tender process in 2009.
During the year, the Committee undertook a full tender process in respect Audit 5.7 4.9 of external audit services in compliance with legislation and Audit-related required by legislation 1.0 1.1 FRC guidance on best practice, in particular ensuring Other audit-related 1.0 1.6 independence in respect of potential audit firms.
Other assurance 0.4 0.4 Non-assurance 1.1 1.3 The existing external audit firm, PwC, was not invited to Total 9.2 9.3 re-tender.
We approached a range of firms including the big four other than the incumbent and mid-tier firms to express Audit and audit-related fees 2015 have been represented.
Interested firms were subsequently requested Our policy is to approach other firms for significant non-audit to complete a detailed Request For Proposal RFP.
Following work unless the audit firm offers a materially better combination this, a full tender process of firms shortlisted based on the of value, quality and timeliness compared with the non-audit responses to the RFP was undertaken.
During the tender firm whilst not impairing the audit firms integrity, objectivity process, each firm was given access to members of the and independence.
In these circumstances, the groups policy groups senior management and a data room.
The tendering requires that all services with an anticipated cost in excess firms were judged against objective criteria determined in of a specified amount are subject to a full competitive tender advance of the process, together with the findings and involving at least one other alternate party in addition to the conclusions of published inspection reports on the audit firms.
If the external auditor is selected following the Whilst the Committee appreciated the quality of the proposals tender process, the Committee is responsible for approving the presented by all the tendering firms, it considered that the external auditors fees on the engagement.
The Committee has submission and team from KPMG LLP KPMG best met pre-approved the engagement of the auditor for non-prohibited the predefined criteria it had set.
It therefore recommended services where the anticipated cost is trivial, but authority is still to the Board that KPMG be appointed as the companys required from the Group Chief Financial Officer to approve any auditor commencing with the audit of the financial year ending such engagement.
The external auditor and management are 31 December 2018.
To ensure a smooth transition from PwC, required to report regularly to the Committee on the nature and KPMG will observe PwC on the audit for the financial year fees relating to non-audit services provided under this authority.
ending 31 December 2017 and then take responsibility for The Committee supports the five year rotation of audit the audit in the following year.
engagement partners to maintain the objectivity of the group The Committee confirms that there are no contractual external audit.
The current audit partner commenced his obligations which restrict the choice of external auditor.
PwC will end their tenure as external In 2016, the group spent 2.5 million on non-audit services auditor on the expiry of the current audit partners five year provided by PwC.
It spent a further 1.0 million on audit-related tenure.
The Committee continues to consider PwC to be the services required by legislation, which is excluded from any appropriate audit firm for the company for 2017, taking into calculation of the ratio of non-audit to audit fees in accordance consideration their audit effectiveness and the audit needs with the UK FRC Ethical Standards for Auditors June 2016. of the group.
Further details can be found in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
The non-audit fee represents 43% of the audit fee for 2016.
PwC was chosen to provide non-audit services in accordance with the policy set out below and in light of its detailed understanding of the group and expertise in the relevant areas.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 65
