GOVERNANCE The composition of the Committee Nominations Committee report The Committee is composed of all the independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out its membership during the year.
Members: SIR JOHN KINGMAN CHAIRMAN Sir John Kingman from 24 October 2016 Carolyn Bradley Philip Broadley from 8 July 2016 Lesley Knox from 1 June 2016 Rudy Markham Richard Meddings Stuart Popham until 31 December 2016 John Stewart until 1 June 2016 Olaf Swantee until 26 May 2016 Julia Wilson Lizabeth Zlatkus until 31 August 2016 In line with our conicts of interest management policy, directors are asked to absent themselves from any discussion relating to his her own reappointment or succession.
The group Chief Executive and HR Director may be invited to attend meetings where this may assist the Committee in fulfilling its responsibilities and, most notably, Board composition is a key focus for in relation to executive appointments and succession planning.
the Nominations Committee, ensuring that the Board has the right skills and experience to direct the company in the successful execution of its strategy.
The role of the Committee Reviewing the time commitment required from The Committee has overall responsibility for leading the non-executive directors and assessing the non-executive process for new appointments to the Board and ensuring directors other significant commitments to ensure that that these appointments bring the required skills and they continue to be able to fulfill their duties effectively experience to the Board.
As part of this, the Committee The Committees terms of reference, which set out full details reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board of the Committees responsibilities, can be viewed on our to ensure the Board is made up of the right people with website.
com investors corporatethe necessary skills and experience to direct the company governance.
html in the successful execution of its strategy.
How the Committee spent its time in 2016 The Committees key responsibilities are: During the year, the Nominations Committee has met Regularly reassessing the structure, size and composition five times, focusing at these meetings on identifying and of the Board to ensure the continued ability of the recommending candidates for appointment to the Board to company to compete effectively in the market place and ensure its continued ability to support the company through recommending any suggested changes to the Board the next phase of its strategy.
It convened sub-committees Reviewing the criteria for identifying and nominating as necessary to focus on particular succession matters.
It led candidates based on the specification for a prospective the process for the appointment of the successor Chairman, appointment including the required skills and capabilities the appointment of a new Senior Independent Director and a number of Independent Non-Executive Directors, including Considering succession planning for directors and other successor Chairs of Committees.
All these appointments are senior executives, taking into account the challenges discussed and explained elsewhere in the annual report.
The and opportunities facing the company and what skills Committee has also led the search for a new group Chief and expertise will be needed by the Board in the future Financial Officer, following the announcement that Mark Gregory intended to retire in January 2017.
58 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE The Committee considered Rudys external business interests Prior to drawing up a specification for a new appointment, and other relationships which could materially interfere with the Committee assesses the balance of skills, knowledge his ability to exercise independent judgement, including his and experience required on the Board.
It then draws up a taking up the position of Interim Chairman until the permanent specification against which all candidates are judged on merit.
successor to John Stewart could take up his appointment as In recommending candidates for appointment, it also has Chairman.
The Committee concluded that there were no regard to the benefits of all types of diversity, including gender.
circumstances which would affect Rudys ability to act in the The Committee is responsible for evaluating the independence best interests of the company and that his length of tenure of all non-executive directors and undertakes an annual review and short-term appointment as interim Chairman had no of each non-executive directors other interests.
The Board, impact on his level of independence.
Rudy will be retiring on the recommendation of the Committee, is satisfied that from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
each non-executive director serving at the end of the year The Committee has also led the recruitment of three new remains independent and continues to have sufficient time to non-executive directors, following a similar process to that discharge their responsibilities to the company.
Rudy Markham described for the appointment of the Chairman.
has served on the Board for 10 years and, as a result, his continued independence was subject to more rigorous review.
The process for the appointment of a successor Chairman Role requirements Process Search Recruitment The Committee prepared a The Committee directed the The Committee considered Following the interviews, the detailed specification for the selection process, under potential candidates identified Committee discussed the role of Chairman, specifying the leadership of the Senior by members of the Committee shortlisted candidates and the skills, knowledge, experience Independent Director.
It examined a agreed that Sir John Kingman and attributes required.
search process was long list of candidates in should be proposed to the commenced under the consultation with JCA Group, Board for appointment as stewardship of Rudy Markham, assessing each candidate Chairman.
The Board approved then Senior Independent against the role specification.
his appointment, which was Director, and completed by The Committee then identified announced on 28 June 2016 and Julia Wilson, the current candidates to be invited to took effect on 24 October 2016.
The Committee as a whole was involved in shortlisting and interviewing candidates and, once preferred candidates had been identified, the executive directors and key senior executives were also included.
JCA Group, an external search consultant, was engaged to facilitate the search and selection process.
The process for the appointment of a group Chief Financial officer Role requirement Process Search Recruitment The Committee, working closely The Committee directed the Potential candidates identified The Committee considered the with the group Chief Executive, selection process, appointing a were assessed against the role feedback from the interviews.
prepared a detailed specification sub-committee to manage the specification and shortlisted The Committee agreed that for the role of Chief Financial process.
Russell Reynolds, an for interview.
Interviews Jeff Davies was the right Officer, specifying the skills, external search consultant, focused on each candidates candidate for the role and knowledge, experience and was engaged to facilitate the skills and experience for should be proposed to the attributes required.
Board for appointment as group Chief Financial Officer.
The Board approved his appointment, which was announced on 22 December 2016 and will take effect from 9 March 2017.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 59 GOVERNANCE Our approach to diversity and inclusion Diversity Our approach to diversity on the Board is set out in our Board Diversity Policy, which is reviewed annually.
We have Gender The Committee only engages executive search firms that continued to recruit based on merit while remaining committed are signatories to the to diversity in the widest sense when seeking to fill vacant Voluntary Code of Conduct Board positions and for the company more generally.
for Executive Search Firms, which promotes gender Being an inclusive business is important to us and is one of our diversity and best practice business principles.
Our approach is to create a culture where for corporate board searches.
In the 2016 searches, the everyone can thrive, whoever they are, and to have a clear company engaged JCA focus and specific targets to address under-representation Group, Odgers, Russell where it occurs.
Reynolds and Korn Ferry The Board now comprises: which are all signatories to We continue to support the voluntary Lord Davies Women this Code and have no other 27% females on Boards target of a third of all Board members to be connection to the company.
73% males women: in line with the Hampton-Alexander Review were The Committee briefs the taking action to ensure our executive pipeline exceeds 33% search firm to ensure that Sector experience the pool of candidates by 2020.
We are also developing our approach to increasing presented includes candidates ethnic minority representation at leadership level in line with with an appropriate range the recommendations of the Parker Review.
of experience, knowledge and background, and who We have maintained the diversity on our Board and have demonstrate independence signed the Women in Finance Charter, formally establishing of approach and thought.
50 50 by 2020 which aims to have a 50 50 balance of men and women right through the organisation by the year 2020 as our long-term goal and setting short-term targets to ensure we make progress towards our goal.
Board members come from a variety of backgrounds and have wide sector experience: 9% Digital and Technology 55% Financial Services 27% Customer and Retail 9% FMCG Tenure years The length of tenure of the non-executives varies: 14% over six years 14% between three and six years 29% between one and three years 43% less than one year 60 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
