GOVERNANCE The composition of the Committee Group Risk Committee report The Committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out its membership during the year.
Members: RICHARD MEDDINGS CHAIR OF THE GROUP Richard Meddings Chair RISK COMMITTEE Philip Broadley from 8 July 2016 Rudy Markham Stuart Popham until 31 December 2016 Toby Strauss from 1 January 2017 Julia Wilson Lizabeth Zlatkus until 31 August 2016 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: group chief financial officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group Chief Internal Auditor: and representatives of the external auditor,  LLP.
The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in the The Group Chief Risk Officers report is supplemented with oversight of the risks to which the group may be exposed and management information on risk appetite, comparing actual to provide the Board with strategic advice in relation to current positions relative to the groups risk appetite statement: and and potential future risk exposures.
This includes reviewing quantitative analysis of the groups exposures to financial and the groups risk profile and appetite for risk, and assessing operational risks, including risk based capital requirements the effectiveness of the groups risk management framework.
in relation to the core risks implicit in the groups businesses.
The groups approach to the management of risk is set out in Group Conduct Risk Directors report more detail on pages 40 to 43.
The Committee also receives at each meeting a report Committee activities during 2016 prepared by the group conduct risk director.
This provides The work of the Committee is supported by the Group Chief the Committee with an assessment of the overall profile of Risk Officer and company secretary who assist the Committee conduct risks for the group: analysis and trends in conduct chairman in planning the Committees work and ensuring that risk indicators including complaints data and the results of the Committee receives accurate and timely information.
reviews undertaken by the group conduct risk monitoring The Committee met five times during 2016.
The effectiveness team: and evaluation of changes in the conduct risk of the Committee was reviewed as part of the internally landscape as regulatory approaches evolve.
facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
Focused business and risk reviews Group Chief Risk Ofcers report Time is allocated at each Committee meeting to carry out Each meeting, the Committee receives a formal report focused deep dive reviews of a particular risk area.
The from the Group Chief Risk Officer.
This report brings to the purpose of these reviews is to enable Committee members Committees attention key factors in the operating environment to examine the risk profile of the core business lines and to of the groups businesses and an assessment of the potential consider the robustness of the frameworks in place to manage risks that may emerge.
The review includes analysis of risks the key risk exposures.
Committee members are invited to arising from the macro-economic outlook and conditions in participate in setting the agenda for these deep dive reviews, financial markets, together with geopolitical, legislative and considering both the current operating environment and regulatory change risks that may impact the groups emerging risk factors.
The adjacent table gives examples businesses, and risks associated with the implementation of some of the key reviews that took place during 2016, of the groups business strategy.
and the areas of focus by the Committee.
66 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE In addition to this aggregate view of acceptable risk taking, Direct Investments A review of the risks implicit in LGCs portfolio of the Committee also considers, as part of the groups overall housing, urban regeneration, clean energy and alternative finance direct investments, including the macro-economic risks for these types of transaction approval process, the appetite for specific risks investment: the nature of the regulatory environment for each sectors: associated with transactions, particularly where the transaction and LGCs governance and investment monitoring approaches to is material in the quantum of risks being assumed or aspects ensure risks are closely managed: of the transaction may present risks that are relatively new to the group.
In this context during 2016, the Committee Credit risk Following its review of the groups credit risk management framework in 2015, in February 2016 the Committee followed up with evaluated the risk profile and appetite for the larger pension specific focus on the macro themes for the coming year being factored risk transfer deals undertaken as well as those transactions into credit portfolio management strategies and the risks associated utilising risk syndication techniques.
with the overall sector profile of the groups credit portfolio: The Committee is also responsible for recommending to Brexit scenario planning In May 2016, ahead of the EU membership the Board risk appetite levels for particular business lines.
referendum, the Committee undertook a review of the possible The groups lifetime mortgage business has continued economic, investment market and operational scenarios that could to see significant demand, and a particular area of focus for arise following a leave vote, and the risk mitigation plans to be deployed to minimise business impacts were financial markets to experience a the Committee has been to ensure risk based volume limits period of volatility: are in place to ensure new business is taken on in a balanced manner taking account of the housing market, credit, liquidity Risk syndication and reinsurance with the shift by LG Retirement and operational risks implicit in this line of business.
from a business model with significant retention of longevity risk to one that involves significant longevity risk transfer, the Committee Risk-based capital model undertook a comprehensive review of risk transfer solutions, the depth The groups risk-based capital model is used to determine the of the longevity reinsurance market and the approaches deployed for setting aggregate counterparty exposure limits: capital requirements for the group and forms the calculation engine for the Solvency II internal model.
As well as reviewing Liquidity risk reflecting that post the financial crisis managing bond and using the output of the model in its understanding of the fund liquidity has become more challenging for fund managers, the groups risk profile, the Committee is the focal point for model Committee considered the implications of a period of prolonged bond governance with specific consideration of the: market illiquidity for investment funds and strategies deployed to manage fund flows: key assumptions, methodologies and areas of expert judgement used within the model: LGIM risk management With the continued growth in LGIMs business, activities undertaken to independently validate the the Committee considered how LGIMs systems of control are being developed to support LGIMs new business areas and how control outputs of the model: processes will continue to be developed in the future as the business ongoing development of the model to ensure that it develops its offering: reects the business lines and risk profile of the group: and processes to ensure that changes applied in the model Taxation risk management Tax is often identified by commentators as a key risk area of concern for companies, the public and investors.
are undertaken in a controlled manner, and in line with The Committee considered the groups profile of tax risks and the model development plans.
framework for the management of corporate and operational taxes: Own risk and solvency assessment ORSA Asset Liability Management the outlook for Interest rates is a key The ORSA is an ongoing assessment of the risks to which sensitivity for both IFRS and Solvency II based reporting measures, Legal & General is exposed and an evaluation of the sufficiency requiring careful deployment of hedging strategies.
The Committee of capital resources to sustain the business strategy over considered current strategies for the management of interest rate exposure: the plan horizon.
Over the course of the year the Committee IT security and cyber risks the financial services sector is increasingly considered different aspects of the groups ORSA process a target for cyber crime, with organisations that fail to recognise including the review of the: and respond to threats often suffering reputation damage.
Following proposed stress tests and scenarios to be used in the on from reviews in 2014 and 2015, the Committee undertook further assessment of the resilience of core IT systems with particular reference evaluation of capital adequacy: to new and emerging risks that will arise as the group develops its businesses digitally.
profile of risks within the groups strategic plan and how they may change over the planning period: and groups overall capacity to bear the risks identified.
Risk appetite A formal ORSA report is subject to annual review by the In July, as in previous years, the Committee undertook a Committee prior to formal approval of the group Board.
detailed review of the operation of the groups risk appetite framework and the key measures and tolerances used to Risk governance determine acceptable risk taking, recommending a number Sound frameworks of risk management and internal of refinements to the Board.
In December, the Committee control are essential in the management of risks.
During considered the risk profile of the groups strategic plan and the year, the Committee has received updates on the its alignment with the groups overall risk appetite.
continued development of the risk governance framework.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 67
