GOVERNANCE Governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code The Board committed to the highest standards The table below sets out the changes to the Board that have The principles of the 2014 Code are the standards against taken place over the course of the year and to the date of this which we measured ourselves during the year.
In particular, John Stewart stepped down as Chairman.
to comply early with the 2016 Code.
The information on the Rudy Markham took on the role of Interim Chairman until following pages demonstrates how we apply the principles of Sir John Kingman took over as John Stewarts successor.
During the Code in practice.
The information required under Disclosure the year, Lesley Knox and Philip Broadley joined the Board and Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 can be found in the on 1 January 2017 Toby Strauss joined as non-executive director.
directors report on pages 231 to 234.
Each year, the Board Jeff Davies and Kerrigan Procter will join the Board ahead of reviews the groups corporate governance framework and the AGM in May 2017.
The biographies of all these directors are compliance with the Code and the table on pages 56 and 57 detailed on pages 48 to 49 and show the strength and depth sets out at a high level how we have complied with each of of skills and experience they have brought to the Board.
When the principles of the 2014 Code.
considering the appointments of new directors, the Board has been mindful of the contribution each new appointee will bring Governance is an important element of both our Board to the Board in light of the changing environment in which the environment and organisational culture and is a key ingredient business operates.
In particular, the Board has remained in the success of our business.
Our governance framework and cognisant of the need to maintain a well-balanced Board with policies support good decision-making thereby contributing to the right mix of individuals who can apply their wider business the success of the business over the long term.
It is the Boards knowledge and experiences to the oversight and guidance of responsibility to ensure we have an appropriate governance the delivery of the groups strategy.
framework in place to continue to support our day-to-day operations and protect the interests of our stakeholders.
Board announcements during the year and to the date of this report 4 February 2016 Mark Gregory announces his intention to retire in January 2017 3 March 2016 Rudy Markham announces his intention to retire at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM Julia Wilson appointed to succeed Rudy Markham as Senior Independent Director effective from the conclusion of the 2016 AGM Olaf Swantee announces his intention to retire from the conclusion of the 2016 AGM 20 May 2016 Lesley Knox appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director effective 1 June 2016 26 May 2016 John Stewart announces his intention to retire as Chairman from 1 June 2016 Rudy Markham to assume the role of Interim Chairman 28 June 2016 Sir John Kingman appointed as Chairman, subject to the advice of the Cabinet Office Advisory Committee on Business Appointments 8 July 2016 Philip Broadley appointed Independent Non-Executive Director effective immediately and succeed Julia Wilson as Chair of the Audit Committee following a short handover Lizabeth Zlatkus announces her intention to retire on 31 August 2016 5 August 2016 Stuart Popham announces his intention to retire on 31 December 2016 27 September 2016 Toby Strauss appointed Independent Non-Executive Director effective 1 January 2017 18 October 2016 Sir John Kingman to take up role as Chairman effective 24 October 2016 22 December 2016 Jeff Davies appointed as Chief Financial Officer from Spring 2017 18 January 2017 Kerrigan Procter appointed Executive Director effective 9 March 2017 Jeff Davies to take up role as Chief Financial Officer on 9 March 2017 24 January 2017 Richard Meddings announces his intention to retire at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM Toby Strauss to assume chairmanship of the Group Risk Committee from 9 March 2017 52 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT How the Board operates the group Chief Executive, who then delegates decision making The Board is led by the Chairman, which role has been fulfilled onward to the Group Capital Committee and his direct reports.
during the year by John Stewart, Rudy Markham as Interim How the Board spent its time in 2016 Chairman and latterly by Sir John Kingman.
The day-to-day The Board met formally seven times during 2016 in addition management of the group is led by Nigel Wilson, the group to meeting on several other occasions on an ad hoc basis to Chief Executive.
The non-executive directors play a key role in discuss, amongst other things, Brexit preparations and material contributing to the delivery of strong organisational governance transactions.
Board sub-committees were constituted on a but their role is not limited to the boardroom.
number of occasions to deal with matters arising in the The Board is accountable for the long-term success of the ordinary course of business outside of the formal schedule of company by setting the groups strategic objectives and meetings.
The transition to Solvency II remained a focus of the monitoring performance against those objectives.
The Board Board, although this is now considered part of our business as meets formally on a regular basis and, at each meeting, usual.
The Board held a two-day strategy event during the year.
considers business performance, strategic proposals, A table of individual Board member attendance at the formal acquisitions and major transactions.
The group and its Board and Committee meetings is provided on page 57. subsidiaries operate within a clearly defined delegated authority The Board agenda is set by the Chairman and consists framework, which has been fully embedded across the group.
of the following broad discussion areas: The delegated authority framework ensures that there is an An update from the group Chief Executive and the key appropriate level of Board contribution to and oversight of key business division heads on business performance and decisions and that the day-to-day business is managed key business initiatives effectively.
The Board delegated authority framework consists of a clearly defined schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
Discussions on strategic proposals, acquisitions, major The types of matters reserved for the Board include, amongst transactions and group matters others, matters relating to the groups strategic plan, risk Board legal and governance update appetite, and systems of internal control and corporate Board members and, as appropriate, individuals from the relevant governance policies.
Those matters which are not reserved business areas are invited to present on each of these items.
are delegated by the Board to group level committees and to Key areas of focus Discussion and actions arising Strategy At its January meeting, the Board considered and approved the groups five-year business plan and 2016 budget.
This included a review of the divisional strategic objectives, initiatives and KPIs.
In February and in June, the Board considered the groups preparations for Brexit.
The Board held a two-day separate strategy event to discuss progress against the groups strategic plan, the strategic direction and optionality for each of the business divisions, the risks and future opportunities for the group.
At each Board meeting, the Board considered a schedule of corporate and material transactions to ensure that proposed transactions are aligned with the groups strategy.
In particular, the Board considered the disposals of Legal & General Netherlands, Suffolk Life, Cofunds and IPS.
The Board also assesses a range of ongoing corporate and commercial transactions to provide Board members with full opportunity to debate and feed back to the management team.
Solvency II The Board continued to spend a significant amount of time considering the Solvency II regulations and monitoring the groups transition to this new regulatory regime The Board focused in particular on the first annual and half year financial statements to include reporting under the new capital regime and discussing its evolving understanding of the behaviour of the Solvency II balance sheet through various macro conditions.
Governance At its February meeting, the Board considered the output from the 2015 externally facilitated Board evaluation.
These findings were also considered by the Corporate Governance Committee.
Detailed recommendations arising from the evaluation were developed by the Corporate Governance Committee and the proposed recommendations were subsequently approved by the Board.
Updates are provided to the Board on meetings held with regulators as and when they occur.
The Board is regularly updated by the group General Counsel and Company Secretary on legal matters, emerging regulation and governance changes.
Stakeholders During the year, the Board regularly considered the groups relationship with various stakeholder groups.
It discussed shareholder matters, employee engagement, customers, and the groups impact collectively on, and relationship with, wider society.
At the Boards February and October meetings, the Corporate Governance Director of Legal & General Investment Management LGIM attended to present LGIMs approach to investor stewardship such as tax transparency, withdrawal of quarterly reporting, boards understanding of cyber risk, board diversity and pay ratios, shareholder representation on company boards and its policy of not withholding votes on AGM resolutions.
The Board also considered the key findings of an investor perceptions report prepared by Makinson Cowell.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 53 GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT Ensuring our directors have the right skills and Strategy away day experience to maintain an effective Board Strategy remained a key focus for the Board throughout The Board believes that continuous development of directors is the course of the year.
It held a separate two-day strategy important for both the business and the individuals concerned event outside the formal Board meeting schedule in 2016. and therefore provides training and development to the Board.
This event provided the Board with an opportunity to reect The Chairman is assisted by the group Company Secretary on the progress the group is making against the backdrop in providing all new directors with an individually tailored of the macro trends identified as the drivers of strategy, and induction programme on joining the Board.
This is tailored to also allow Board members to debate, scrutinise and review the knowledge and experience of each individual and includes performance against the strategic plan.
The Board also focuses a series of meetings with members of the Board and of the on the future and the next phase of the companys strategy.
groups operational and functional leadership and with external The agenda for the strategy event included debate and advisors and our regulators.
This ensures they obtain a detailed discussion on strategic options involving the heads of each overview of the group, its business and governance framework of the groups key business divisions: Legal & General as well as the regulatory environment in which it operates and Investment Management, Legal & General Retirement, external perspectives.
Subsequently, all Board members Legal & General Capital and Insurance.
receive continuing education and development opportunities at regular intervals throughout the year.
During the year, the development activities undertaken included: One-to-one briefing sessions for non-executive directors with key members of the senior management team Focused group Executive Business Awareness sessions EBAs Continuing training on Solvency II regulation Deep dives into our businesses and director site visits to business operations 2016 Board and Committee evaluations Each year, the Board considers the most appropriate method for The review focused in particular on the following areas: conducting a review of the Board and its Committees performance.
In Board composition, expertise and dynamics deciding if an internal or external review is appropriate, the Board reflects Strategic and performance oversight on when it last completed an external review, what changes have been made to the composition of the Board during the course of the year and Succession planning and human resource management any other factors that may have had an impact on the groups strategy Priorities for change during the year.
The Board determined that it would be appropriate to The Chairman has also conducted individual Board member carry out an internal review this year as, given the level of change to the evaluations.
The Senior Independent Director conducted a review of Boards composition during the year, the Board would benefit from a Sir John Kingmans initial performance and a more detailed review further period working as a collective group before undertaking an will take place in 2017, allowing time for him to settle into his new role.
As the last such external review was undertaken in 2015, the Board was not required under the 2014 Code The review concluded that the Board continued to operate effectively to undertake such a review during the year.
against a backdrop of some exceptional issues including preparation for Brexit and Board composition changes.
A summary of recommendations from the review is set out below, together with an update on the progress made against the recommendations from the 2015 review.
54 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT Recommendations from 2016 Following the further strengthening of insurance experience on the Board during 2016, Board succession planning priorities will now focus on asset management and international experience.
Continue to evolve the groups subsidiary governance framework to reflect the groups strategic focus, including enhanced opportunities for the group Board to interact with the subsidiary boards and committees and their independent directors.
Build on the success of the talent development programme and 50 50 by 2020 initiative and enhance Board engagement with the organisations top talent through business deep dives, talent dinners and regular events hosted by the Chairman.
Review the director training and induction programme with a view to enhancing in line with best practice.
Recommendations from 2015 review Progress against 2015 recommendations Board and Committee agendas and papers should be reviewed with a An exercise was undertaken to gather individual director feedback view to enhancing the structure and content of papers, in particular, on papers and to reflect this in guidance for the preparation of papers.
ensuring that key considerations and messages are delivered effectively.
A process for early review of draft papers is also in place to ensure clarity of content.
In reviewing the composition of the Board, specific consideration Lesley Knox, who has a wealth of financial services experience, should be given to recruiting non-executive directors with insurance joined the Board in June 2016. and or asset management expertise.
Further, non-executive directors with Philip Broadley, who has over 14 years experience in insurance, international experience were also seen to be important future additions joined the Board in July 2016.
On 1 January 2017, Toby Strauss to the Board.
appointment further added to the depth of insurance experience on the Board.
The Board should continue to develop its understanding of the views Sir John Kingman and Julia Wilson have undertaken a programme of shareholders.
This could be facilitated through a programme of of meetings with investors and provided feedback to the Board.
The major shareholder meetings and additional meetings with the groups Board receives an annual update from the groups corporate brokers.
The Boards engagement on strategy should continue to be enhanced.
An additional half day strategy checkpoint session was deferred Following the success of the 2015 June half day strategy checkpoint, a given the number of changes to the Board membership that occurred further afternoon strategy discussion should be scheduled in June as a over the Spring.
This will be revisited in 2017. lead in to the September strategy offsite.
This should be focused on two to three strategic priorities.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 55 GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT Committed to the highest standards Compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, were pleased to report that we have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 2014 Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: frc.
Effectiveness A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board B4 Development The Board meets regularly during the year, both The Nominations Committee is responsible The Board places great value on the within a formal schedule and informally on an for reviewing the composition of the Board inductions that are offered to new ad hoc basis in line with business need.
Suband, in making recommendations for non-executives and the ongoing training committee meetings were also constituted to appointments to the Board, the Committee opportunities made available to all deal with matters such as the final approval of considers the balance of skills, experience Board members.
Further details of the the interim and half year results.
The Boards and knowledge needed in order to enhance development sessions which have agenda is set by the Chairman and deals with the Board and support the company in the taken place during the year are set out those matters specifically reserved to the execution of its strategy.
Details of the work on page 54.
Board, including matters relating to the groups undertaken by the Committee are set out B5 Information and support strategic plan, risk appetite, and systems of on pages 58 to 60.
Procedures are in place to ensure that internal control and corporate governance B2 Appointments to the Board Board members receive accurate and policies.
Matters delegated to the group The Nominations Committee is responsible timely information via a secure electronic Chief Executive include managing the groups for leading the process of appointing portal.
All directors have access to the business in line with the strategic plan and new directors to the Board.
The Committee advice of the group general counsel and approved risk appetite, and responsibility for is committed to ensuring that all company secretary as well as independent the operation of the internal control framework.
appointments are made on merit having professional advice at the expense of A2 Division of responsibilities evaluated the capabilities of all potential the company.
The roles of the Chairman and group Chief candidates against the requirements of B6 Evaluation Executive are clearly defined and the role profiles the Board, with due regard for the benefits The Board decided upon an internal are reviewed as part of the annual governance of all types of diversity, including gender.
evaluation this year having had an review undertaken by the Board.
The role of the B3 Commitment externally facilitated evaluation undertaken Chairman, undertaken during the year by John The Non-Executive Directors letters of by Lintstock in 2015.
Details of this Stewart, Rudy Markham as Interim Chairman appointment set out the time commitment years evaluation and an update on the and latterly by Sir John Kingman, is to lead the expected from them.
This time commitment recommendations from the 2015 evaluation Board while Nigel Wilson, group Chief Executive, has once again gone beyond that set out in are set out on pages 54 and 55. is responsible for the day-to-day management of the letter of appointment of Non-Executive the company within the strategy set by the Board.
This time commitment is All directors were subject to shareholder A3 The Chairman therefore reviewed regularly.
External election or re-election at the 2016 AGM, The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, commitments, which may have an impact with the exception of those directors who manages the meeting timetable and encourages on existing time commitments, must be were retiring at the conclusion of the an open and constructive dialogue during agreed in advance with the Chairman.
All directors, with the exception meetings.
On Sir John Kingmans appointment significant commitments of each of the of Mark Gregory, Rudy Markham and as Chairman, he was identified by the directors directors are included in the Board Richard Meddings, who will all be retiring as being independent in accordance with the biographies on pages 48 and 49.
The from the Board at the conclusion of the independence criteria set out in provision B.
1.1 Chairmans commitments were considered AGM, will be subject to shareholder of the Code.
as part of his appointment and the Board election or re-election at the 2017 AGM.
agreed that he has no commitments that A4 Non-executive directors are expected to have a negative impact The success of the Board is underpinned upon his time commitment to the Company.
by an open and constructive dialogue in the boardroom and the Chairman actively invites the views of all Board members.
The Chairman is available to the Non-Executive Directors and, over the course of the year: the Non-Executive Directors have met in the absence of the Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are both available to shareholders should they have any concerns they wish to raise.
56 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT 1 Board and committee meetings attendance during 2016 Corporate Appointment Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Governance Director Date Board 7 Committee 5 Committee 5 Committee 5 Committee 5 Committee 3 Sir John Kingman 24 October 2016 1 1 2 2 2 John Stewart 01 January 2010 4 4 1 1 1 1 J Wilson 9 November 2011 7 5 5 5 2 2 N D Wilson 01 September 2009 7 3 M J Gregory 28 January 2009 7 M Zinkula 18 September 2012 7 C Bradley 8 December 2014 7 5 5 3 3 2 2 4 4 3 3 P Broadley 08 July 2016 L Knox 01 June 2016 3 3 2 2 4 4 3 3 R Markham 4 October 2006 7 5 5 5 3 R Meddings 8 December 2014 7 5 5 5 5 4 S Popham 1 July 2011 7 4 4 4 5 O Swantee 01 August 2014 2 4 2 3 1 1 6 L Zlatkus 01 December 2013 5 5 4 4 1 1 3 3 1.
Attendance at meetings in accordance with the formal schedule of meetings.
Retired with effect from 1 June 2016.
Retiring with effect from 9 March 2017.
Retired with effect from 31 December 2016.
Retired with effect from 26 May 2016.
Retired with effect from 31 August 2016.
C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with Shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting D1 The level and components E1 Dialogue with shareholders The Strategic Report, located on pages 1 to 45, of remuneration Board members take an active role in sets out the performance of the company, The company aims to reward employees engaging with both institutional and retail the business model, strategy, and the risks fairly and our remuneration policy is shareholders, both in private meetings and uncertainties relating to the companys designed to promote the long-term success and in wider forums such as the AGM.
of the company whilst aligning the interests The Chairman and the Senior Independent of both the directors and shareholders.
Director aim to meet some of the major C2 Risk management and internal control Shareholders will be asked to approve the institutional investors at least once per year The Board sets the companys risk appetite remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
The and are available to meet other investors and annually reviews the effectiveness of the work of the Committee is set out on pages on request.
The Chairman shares feedback companys risk management and internal 68 to 97. from these meetings with the wider Board.
A description of the principal risks facing the company is set out on pages 44 D2 Procedure E2 Constructive use of the AGM and 45.
Page 43 sets out how the directors have The Remuneration Committee is The Board values the AGM as an important assessed the prospects of the company, over responsible for setting the remuneration opportunity to engage with investors.
what period they have done so and why they for all executive directors.
Details of Attendees have the opportunity to ask consider that period to be appropriate the the composition and the work of the questions of the Board and are invited to viability statement.
The activities of the Audit Remuneration Committee are set out in meet the Board following the formal business and Group Risk Committees, which assist the the Directors Remuneration Report on of the meeting.
A capital markets event for Board with its responsibilities in relation to pages 68 to 97. investors was held in December 2016. financial reporting, audit matters, risk appetite Following John Stewarts resignation on setting and risk management, are set out on 1 June 2016, Rudy Markham was appointed pages 61 to 67. as Interim Chairman of the Board.
Sir John C3 Audit Committee and auditors Kingmans appointment as the Chairman The Audit Committee comprises five was announced on 28 June 2016, subject independent non-executive directors and the to the advice of the Cabinet Office Advisory Board delegates a number of responsibilities Committee on Business Appointments.
to the Audit Committee, including oversight He took up the role on 24 October 2016. of the groups financial reporting processes, Between 1 June and 30 September 2016, internal control and risk management Rudy was both Interim Chairman and Chair framework, and the work undertaken by the of the Remuneration Committee, which was external and internal auditors.
The Committee a function of the timetable of the Chairman also supports the Boards consideration of the succession process.
companys viability and its ability to operate as a going concern.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the website, www.
The Audit Committee chair provides regular updates to the Board on key matters discussed by the Committee.
COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 57
