Governance Board of Directors Comprising Directors with the right mix BOARD DIVERSITY ofskills and experience, the Board is Gender diversity collectively responsible for overseeing 2016 10 3 delivery of theGroups strategy 2015 10 3 2014 10 3 Male Female Skills and experience 54% Retail commercial banking 92% Financial markets wholesale banking corporate clients 31% Insurance 54% Core technology operations digital impact 62% Government regulator interface 77% CEO CFO CRO 62% Consumer marketing distribution Board tenure Age 2 2 2 6 5 4 5 02 yrs 46 yrs 4655 5665 6675 24 yrs 68 yrs NG Re RB Ri 01 Lord Blackwell This information is provided at 31 December 2016 Chairman Appointed: June 2012 Board, April 2014 Chairman Skills and experience: Lord Blackwell has deep financial services knowledge including in insurance and banking, as well as regulatory and public policy experience gained from senior positions in a wide range of industries.
His breadth of experience, credibility with key stakeholders and strong leadership qualities make him an effective Chairman.
Lord Blackwell was previously the Chairman of Scottish Widows Group, and Interserve plc, Director of Group Development at NatWest Group, a Senior Independent Director of Standard Life and also chaired their UK Life and Pensions Board.
His past Non-Executive Directorships have included Halma plc, Dixons Group, SEGRO and Ofcom.
He was Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit from 1995 to 1997 and was appointed a Life Peer in 1997.
He has an MA in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge, a Ph.
D in Finance and Economics and an MBA from the University of Pennsylvania.
External appointments: Governor of the Yehudi Menuhin School.
02 Anita Frew A NG Re RB Ri Deputy Chairman and Independent Director Appointed: December 2010 Board, May 2014 Deputy Chairman Skills and experience: Anita has significant board, financial and general management experience across a range of sectors, including banking, asset and investment management, manufacturing and utilities.
She was previously Chairman of Victrex plc, the Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset Management and IMI plc, an Executive Director of Abbott Mead Vickers, a Non-Executive Director of Northumbrian Water and has held various investment and marketing roles at Scottish Provident and the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Her extensive board level, asset and investment management experience makes her a strong Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She has a BA Hons in International Business from the University of Strathclyde, a MRes in Humanities and Philosophy from the University ofLondon and an Honorary DSc for contribution to industry and finance from the University of Cranfield.
External appointments: Chairman of Croda International Plc and a Non-Executive Director of BHP Billiton.
54 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 A NG Re Ri 03 Alan Dickinson 05 Nick Luff A NG Ri Independent Director Independent Director Appointed: September 2014 Appointed: March 2013 Skills and experience: Alan is a highly regarded retail and commercial banker Skills and experience: Nick has significant financial experience in the UK listed having spent 37 years with the Royal Bank of Scotland, most notably as environment having served in a number of senior finance positions within a ChiefExecutive of RBS UK.
More recently, he was a Non-Executive Director of range of sectors.
His background and experience enables him to fulfil the role Willis Limited and Chairman of its Risk Committee.
He was formerly Chairman of Audit Committee Chair and, for SEC purposes, the role of Audit Committee of Brown, Shipley& Co. Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Nationwide Financial Expert.
Nick was previously the Group Finance Director of Centrica Building Society where he was Chairman of its Risk Committee.
Alans strategic plc, Finance Director of The Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company focus and core banking experience complements the balance of skills on and Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess Cruises plc.
He previously served our Board and makes him ideal for the role of Chairman of the Board Risk as a Non-Executive Director and was the Audit Committee Chair of QinetiQ Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and the Royal Group plc.
He is a Mathematics graduate from the University of Oxford and Statistical Society and has an MBA from the Manchester Business School and a Chartered Accountant.
a Bachelor of Science from the University of Birmingham.
External appointments: Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer External appointments: Chairman of Urban & Civic plc and a Governor ofRELX Group.
06 Deborah McWhinney 04 Simon Henry A Ri A Ri Independent Director Independent Director Appointed: December 2015 Appointed: June 2014 Skills and experience: Deborah has an extensive executive background in Skills and experience: Simon has deep international experience in board level managing technology, operations and new digital innovations across banking, strategy and execution.
His extensive knowledge of financial markets, treasury payments and institutional investment.
She broadens the Boards diversity and risk management and his qualification as an Audit Committee Financial from a global market perspective.
Deborah is a former Chief Executive Expert is of particular value in our Board Risk and Audit Committees.
Simon Officer, Global Enterprise Payments and President, Personal Banking and has a BA in Mathematics, an MA from the University of Cambridge and is a Wealth Management at Citibank.
She was previously President of Institutional fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Services at Charles Schwab Corporation and held executive roles at Engage External appointments: Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director of Media Services Group, Visa International and Bank of America, where she held Royal Dutch Shell plc with responsibility for Shells Finance, IT, Strategy and senior roles in Consumer Banking.
She holds a BSc in Communications from Planning functions until 9 March 2017.
Non-Executive Director of Rio Tintoplc the University of Montana.
and Rio Tinto Limited from 1 July 2017.
Chair of the European Round Table External appointments: Member of the Supervisory Board of Fresenius CFO Taskforce, Member of the Main Committee of the 100 Group of UK FTSE Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA, Independent Director of Fluor Corporation CFOs, the Advisory Panel of CIMA and of the Advisory Board of the Centre for andIHS Markit Ltd, a Trustee of the California Institute of Technology and EuropeanReform.
of the Institute for Defense Analyses.
KEY Member of Audit Committee A Member of Nomination and Governance Committee NG Member of Remuneration Committee Re Member of Responsible Business Committee RB Member of Risk Committee Ri Committee Chairman BOARD OF DIRECTORS KEY 10 01 09 08 06 07 14 55 Governance Board of Directors continued A Ri A NG Re Ri 07 Nick Prettejohn 09 Anthony Watson CBE Independent Director and Chairman Senior Independent Director of Scottish Widows Group Appointed: April 2009 Board, May 2012 Senior Independent Director Appointed: June 2014 Skills and experience: Tony is our Senior Independent Director and with Skills and experience: Nick has significant financial services experience, over 40 years of experience in the investment management industry and particularly in insurance where he has served as Chief Executive of Lloyds of related sectors, he is well placed to carry out this role.
His former positions London and Prudential UK and Europe as well as Chairman of Brit Insurance.
include Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management and Chairman of He is a former Non-Executive Director of the Prudential Regulation Authority the Asian Infrastructure Fund, MEPC, the Marks & Spencer Pension Trustees and of Legal & General Group Plc as well as Chairman of the Financial Services and of the Strategic Investment Board Northern Ireland.
He is also a former Practitioner Panel.
He has the knowledge and experience to provide valuable Member of the Financial Reporting Council, a Senior Independent Director of insight and contribute effectively as a Non-Executive Director and Member Hammerson and a Non-Executive Director of the Shareholder Executive and of the Audit Committee and Risk Committee as well as the governance Vodafone Group.
He has a BSc Hons in Economics from Queens University experience and leadership qualities to chair Scottish Widows Group.
Nick has Belfast, aDiploma in Security Analysis from the New York Institute of Finance a First Class Degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Balliol College, and isaBarrister at Law, England and Wales.
External appointments: Senior Independent Director of Witan Investment Trust, Chairman of the Lincolns Inn Investment Committee and a member External appointments: Member of the BBC Trust until 31 March 2017, of the Norges Bank Investment Management Corporate Governance Chairman of the Britten-Pears Foundation, the Royal Northern College of AdvisoryBoard.
Music and the Financial Conduct Authority's Financial Advice Working Group.
Re Ri 10 Sara Weller CBE Re RB Ri 08 Stuart Sinclair Independent Director Independent Director Appointed: January 2016 Appointed: February 2012 Skills and experience: Stuart has extensive experience in retail banking, Skills and experience: With a background in retail and associated sectors, insurance and consumer finance.
He is a former Non-Executive Director of TSB including financial services, Sara brings a broad perspective to the Board.
Banking Group plc, TSB Bank plc, LV Group and Virgin Direct.
In his executive She is a passionate advocate of customers, the community, financial inclusion career, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of Aspen Insurance after and the development of digital skills which directly support Lloyds Banking spending nine years with General Electric, as Chief Executive Officer of the Groups strategy and her role as Chairman of the Responsible Business UK Consumer Finance business then President of GE Capital China.
Sara has considerable experience of boards at both executive and that he was Chief Executive Officer of Tesco Personal Finance and Director of non-executive level.
Her previous appointments include Managing Director UK Retail Banking at the Royal Bank of Scotland.
He was a Council member of of Argos, various senior positions at J Sainsbury including Deputy Managing The Royal Institute for International Affairs Chatham House.
He has an MA in Director, Lead Non-Executive Director at the Department of Communities Economics from the University of Aberdeen and an MBA from the University and Local Government, a Non-Executive Director of Mitchells & Butlers of California.
as well as a number of senior management roles for Abbey National and MarsConfectionery.
She has an MA in Chemistry from Oxford University.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Risk External appointments: Non-Executive Director of United Utilities Group Committee at Provident Financial plc: Senior Independent Director and Chair and Chair of their Remuneration Committee, a Governing Council Member of Risk at QBE Insurance Europe Limited and Senior Independent Director of Cambridge University, Chairman of the Planning Inspectorate and Board and Chair of Risk at Swinton Group Limited.
member at the Higher Education Funding Council.
56 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS KEY 03 02 05 13 12 11 04 11 Antnio Horta-Osrio 13 Juan Colombs Executive Director and Group Chief Executive Executive Director and Chief Risk Officer Appointed: January 2011 Board, March 2011 Group Chief Executive Appointed: January 2011 Chief Risk Officer, November 2013 Board Skills and experience: Antnio brings extensive experience in, and Skills and experience: Juan has significant banking and risk management understanding of, both retail and commercial banking.
This has been experience, having spent 31 years working in these fields both built over a period of more than 30 years, working both internationally internationally and in the UK.
Juan is responsible for developing the as well as in the UK.
Antnios drive, enthusiasm and commitment Groups risk framework, recommending its risk appetite and ensuring to customers, along with his proven ability to build and lead strong that all risks generated by the business are measured, reviewed and management teams, brings significant value to all stakeholders of monitored on an ongoing basis.
He was previously the Chief Risk LloydsBanking Group.
Previously he worked for Goldman Sachs, Officer and an Executive Director of Santanders UK business.
Prior Citibank and held various senior management positions at Grupo to this position, he held a number of senior risk, control and business Santander before becoming its Executive Vice President.
He was a management roles across the Corporate, Investment, Retail and Risk Non-Executive Director of Santander UK and subsequently its Chief Divisions of the Santander Group.
He has served as the Groups Chief Executive.
He is also a former Non-Executive Director of the Court of Risk Officer and as a member of the Group Executive Committee since the Bank of England and Governor of the London Business School.
Juan has a BSc in Industrial Chemical Engineering from Antnio has a Degree in Management & Business Administration the Universidad Politcnica fide Madrid, a Financial Management degree from the Universidade Catlica Portuguesa, an MBA from INSEAD from ICADE School of Business and Economics and an MBA from the and has completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Institute fide Empresa Business School.
External appointments: Vice Chairman of the International Financial External appointments: Non-Executive Director of EXOR N. V. RiskInstitute.
Fundao Champalimaud and Sociedade Francisco Manuel dos Santos in Portugal, a member of the Board of Stichting INPAR and Chairman of the Wallace Collection.
12 George Culmer 14 Malcolm Wood Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Appointed: May 2012 Board Appointed: November 2014 Skills and experience: George has extensive operational and financial Skills and experience: Malcolm was previously General Counsel and expertise including strategic and financial planning and control.
He has Company Secretary of Standard Life after a career as a corporate worked in financial services in the UK and overseas for over 25 years.
lawyer in private practice in London and Edinburgh.
He has a wealth of George was an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of RSA experience in governance, policy and regulation.
He is a Fellow of the Insurance Group, the former Head of Capital Management of Zurich Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and a Member of Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer of its UK operations as the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment and the GC100.
well as holding various senior management positions at Prudential.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Scottish Widows.
George is a Chartered Accountant and has a history degree from the University of Cambridge.
Directors biographies can be found at www.
