Risk management Risk management Risk appetite Risk management is at the heart of Risk appetite is defined as the amount and type of risk that the Group our strategy to become the best bank is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
for customers Risk appetite is documented in a Board Risk Appetite Statement which is reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and approved Our mission is to support the business annually by the Board.
This The Board metrics are supported by more detailed sub-Board functional and divisional risk appetite metrics.
is achieved through informed risk The Board Risk Appetite is aligned to the Risk Appetite Framework, decision making and superior risk and andin turn the Risk Management Framework and Group Risk Principles.
capital management, supported by a Risk appetite is embedded within principles, policies, authorities and limits across the Group and continues to evolve to reflect external consistent risk-focused culture market developments and composition of the Group.
The Groups strategy operates in tandem with the Board Risk Appetite The risk overview pages 26 to 31 provides a summary of risk and business planning is undertaken with a view to meeting the management within the Group.
It highlights the important role of requirements of the Board Risk Appetite.
risk as a strategic differentiator, risk achievements in 2016 along with a brief overview of the Groups risk governance structure and the Performance is optimised by allowing business units to operate principal risks faced by the Group and key mitigating actions.
withinapproved risk appetite and limits.
This full risk management section provides a more in-depth picture of The Board Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the how risk is managed within the Group, detailing the Groups emerging development, implementation and maintenance of the Groups risks, approach to stress testing, risk governance, committee structure, overall risk management framework and its risk appetite, to ensure appetite for risk pages 116 to 122 and a full analysis of the primary they are in line with emerging regulatory, corporate governance and risk drivers pages 123 to 169 the framework by which risks are industry best practice.
identified, managed, mitigated and monitored.
Board Risk Appetite includes the following areas: Each risk driver is described and managed using the following Credit the Group has a conservative and well balanced credit standard headings: definition, exposures, measurement, mitigation portfolio through the economic cycle.
Conduct the Groups product design and sales practices ensure that products are transparent and meet customer needs.
THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK Market the Group takes minimal proprietary trading risk, The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous reflectingthe customer focused nature of the Groups activities.
management controls to support sustainable business growth and Operational the Group has robust controls in place to manage minimise losses.
Through a strong and independent risk function operational losses, reputational events and regulatory breaches.
RiskDivision a robust control framework is maintained to identify Itidentifies and assesses emerging risks and acts to mitigate these.
andescalate current and emerging risks to support sustainable Funding and liquidity the Group maintains a prudent liquidity business growth within Board Risk Appetite and through good riskreward decision making.
profile to ensure it can survive under stressed conditions, and a balance sheet structure that limits its reliance on potentially volatile Risk culture sources of funding.
The Board ensures that senior management implements risk policies Capital and earnings the Group maintains capital levels and risk appetites that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit commensurate with a prudent level of solvency, even under stressed activities, relationships and situations that could be detrimental to conditions.
It aims to deliver consistent and high quality earnings theGroups risk profile.
and has low appetite for earnings shocks or surprises from any risktype.
As part of a conservative business model that embodies a risk Regulatory and legal the Group complies with all relevant culture founded on a prudent approach to managing risk, the Group regulation and all applicable laws including Codes of Practice reviewed its Codes of Business and Personal Responsibility in 2016 whichcould have legal implications and or legal obligations.
reinforcing its approach where colleagues are accountable for the risksthey take and where the needs of customers are paramount.
People the Group leads responsibly and proficiently, manages its people resource effectively, supports and develops colleague talent, The focus remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships and meets legal and regulatory obligations related to its people.
with customers cognisant of the economic climate.
Financial reporting the Group meets regulatory reporting and tax requirements in jurisdictions where it operates and ensures the timely and transparent disclosure and dissemination of information relating to its listed debt or equity.
Governance the Group has governance arrangements that support the effective long-term operation of the business, maximise shareholder value and meet regulatory and societal expectations.
As a separate regulated entity with its own Board, the Insurance business has its own Risk Appetite and maintains its own Risk Appetite framework, aligned to the Group Risk Appetite framework.
116 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance and control Risk decision making and reporting The Groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework Taking risks which are well understood, consistent with strategy and a strong risk management culture which are the foundation for the andwith appropriate return is a key driver of shareholder value.
delivery of effective risk management and guide the way all employees Risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of approach their work, behave and make decisions.
opportunities as well as risks.
Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from An aggregate view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and the Board down to individuals through the management hierarchy.
management actions, and performance against risk appetite, is Senior executives are supported by a committee based structure reported to and discussed monthly at the Group Risk Committee which is designed to ensure open challenge and support effective and a subset at the Group Asset and Liability Committee, with decision making.
regular reporting to the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
The Groups risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, controls Rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to assess the impact and reporting are regularly reviewed and updated where needed of a range of adverse scenarios with different probabilities and to ensure they remain fully in line with regulations, law, corporate severities to inform strategic planning.
The Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk Committee The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance BRC of the aggregate risk profile and as a member of the Board, structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that has direct access to the Chairman and members of BRC.
isencouraged by both the Board and senior management.
Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior management in Group-wide risk issues at Group Executive Committee level, ensures that escalated issues are promptly addressed and remediation plans are initiated where required.
Line management is directly accountable for identifying and managing risks in their individual businesses, ensuring that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and reward consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
Clear responsibilities and accountabilities for risk are defined across the Group through a Three Lines of Defence model which ensures effective independent oversight and assurance in respect of keydecisions.
Table 1.1: Exposure to risk arising from the business activities of the Group The table below provides a high level guide to how the Groups business activities are reflected in its risk measures and balance sheet.
Details of the business activities for each division are provided in the Divisional Results on pages40 to 48.
Commercial Consumer Central 1 2 Retail Banking Finance Run-off Items Insurance Group bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Risk-weighted assets RWAs Credit risk 39.7 78.2 28.6 8.3 11.9 166.7 3 Counterparty credit risk 8.6 1.0 9.6 Market risk 3.1 3.1 Operational risk 15.5 6.1 3.5 0.2 25.3 Total excluding threshold 55.2 96.0 32.1 8.5 12.9 204.7 4 Threshold 10.8 10.8 Total 55.2 96.0 32.1 8.5 23.7 215.5 1 Central Items include assets held outside the main operating divisions, including exposures relating to Group Corporate Treasury which holds the Group's liquidity portfolio, and GroupOperations.
2 As a separate regulated business, Insurance maintains its own regulatory solvency requirements, including appropriate management buffers, and reports directly to the Insurance Board.
Insurance does not hold any RWAs, as its assets are removed from the Banking Group's regulatory capital calculations.
However, part of the Group's investment in Insurance is included In thecalculation of Threshold RWAs, subject to CRD IV rules, while the remainder is taken as a capital deduction.
3 Exposures relating to the default fund of a central counterparty and credit valuation adjustment risk are included in counterparty credit risk.
4 Threshold is presented on a fully loaded CRD IV basis.
Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of deducted from CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from the investment in the Groups Insurance business.
Principal risks The Groups principal risks are shown in the risk overview pages28 to 31.
The Groups emerging risks are shown overleaf.
Full analysis of the Groups risk drivers is on pages123 to 169.
