Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISK GOVERNANCE The risk governance structure below is integral to effective risk management across the Group.
Risk Division is appropriately represented on key committees to ensure that risk management is discussed in these meetings.
This structure outlines the flow and escalation of risk information and reporting from business areas and Risk Division to GEC and Board.
Conversely, strategic direction and guidance is cascaded down from the Board andGEC.
Company Secretariat support senior and Board level committees, and support the Chairs in agenda planning.
This gives a further line of escalation outside the Three Lines of Defence.
Table 1.2: Risk governance structure Reporting Reporting Audit Board Risk Board Committee Committee GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Aggregation, Aggregation, escalation escalation GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Independent Independent COMMITTEES challenge challenge RISK DIVISION COMMITTEES AND GOVERNANCE Primary escalation Independent Independent BUSINESS AREA challenge challenge PRINCIPAL ENTERPRISE RISK COMMITTEES Reporting Reporting FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE RISK MANAGEMENT Independent challenge of both First and Second lines of defence Group Chief Executive Business area principal Risk Division Committees Committees Enterprise Risk Committees and Governance Group Executive Committee GEC Retail Risk Committee Credit Risk Executive Credit Approval Committee Consumer Finance Risk Committee Group Risk Committee GRC Commercial Banking Credit Risk Customer Products and Markets Risk Committees Group Asset and Liability Committee Committee Retail & Consumer Credit Risk Committees GALCO Commercial Banking Risk Committee Market Risk Group Customer First Committee Digital Risk Committee Group Market Risk Committee Group Cost Management Committee Insurance Risk Committee Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk Group Conduct, Compliance Conduct Review Committee Finance Risk Committee & Operational Risk Committee Executive Compensation Committee Group Operations Risk Committee Fraud and Financial Crime Risk Group Functions Executive Risk Responsible Business Group Financial Crime Prevention Committees Management Committee Committee Risk Division Risk Committee Group Fraud Committee Financial Risk Group Financial Risk Committee Capital Risk Group Capital Risk Committee Model Risk Group Model Governance Committee Insurance Risk through the governance arrangements for Insurance Group Insurance Group is a separate regulated entity with its own Board, governance structure and Chief Risk Officer 121 THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE ASSURANCE GROUP AUDIT SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE RISK OVERSIGHT Risk management Risk management continued Board, Executive and Risk Committees The Groups risk governance structure see table 1.2 strengthens risk evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
Assisted by the Board Risk and Audit Committees, the Board approves the Groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
Refer to the Corporate Governance section on pages 60 to 80, for further information on Board committees.
The divisional functional risk committees review and recommend divisional functional risk appetite and monitor local risk profile and adherence toappetite.
Insurance, which is subject to separate regulation, has its own Board and governance structure.
The Insurance Board, assisted by a Risk Oversight Committee and Audit Committee, approves the governance, risk and control frameworks for the Insurance business and the Insurance business risk appetite, ensuring it aligns with the Groups framework and risk appetite.
Table 1.3: Executive and Risk Committees The Group Chief Executive is supported by the following: Committees Risk focus Group Executive Committee GEC Supports the Group Chief Executive in exercising his authority in relation to material matters having strategic, cross-business area or Group-wide implications.
Group Risk Committee GRC Reviews and recommends the Groups risk appetite and governance, risk and control frameworks, material Group policies and the allocation of risk appetite.
The committee also regularly reviews risk exposures and risk reward returns and approves material risk models.
Group Asset and Liability Responsible for the strategic management of the Groups assets and liabilities and the profit and loss Committee GALCO implications of balance sheet management actions.
It is also responsible for the risk management framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
Group Customer First Committee Provides a Group-wide perspective on the progress of Groups, Divisions and Functions implementation GCFC of initiatives which enhance the delivery of customer outcomes and customer trust, and set and promote the appropriate tone from the top to fulfil the Groups vision to become the best bank for customers and Help Britain Prosper.
Group Cost Management Leads and shapes the Groups approach to cost management, ensuring appropriate governance and Committee process over Group-wide cost management activities and effective control of the Groups cost base.
Conduct Review Committee Provides oversight and challenge in connection with the Groups engagement with conduct review matters as agreed with the Group Chief Executive.
Executive Compensation Provides governance and oversight for Group-wide remuneration matters and policies.
Committee Responsible Business Management Recommends and implements the strategy and plans to deliver the Groups aspiration to be a leader Committee in responsible business as part of the objective of helping Britain prosper.
The Group Risk Committee is supported through escalation and ongoing reporting by business area risk committees, cross-divisional committees addressing specific matters of Group-wide significance and the following Risk committees which ensure effective oversight of risk management: Credit Risk Committees Responsible for the development and effectiveness of the relevant credit risk management framework, clear description of the Groups credit risk appetite, setting of credit policy, and compliance with regulatory credit requirements.
Group Market Risk Committee Monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate market risk exposures and concentrations and provides GMRC a proactive and robust challenge around business activities giving rise to market risks.
Group Conduct, Compliance and Responsible for monitoring breaches, material events and risk issues and conducting deep dive Operational Risk Committee assessments on specific Conduct, Compliance or Operational Risk subjects to inform corrective action along with the sharing of information and best practice.
Group Financial Crime Reviews and challenges the management of financial crime risk including the overall strategy and Prevention Committee performance and engagement with financial crime authorities.
The committee is accountable for ensuring that, at Group level, financial crime risks are effectively identified and managed within risk appetite and that strategies for financial crime prevention are effectively co-ordinated and implemented across the Group.
Group Fraud Committee Is responsible for ensuring that the development and application of fraud risk management complies with the Groups strategic aims and risk appetite, and our broader corporate responsibilities.
The committee provides direction and focus to priorities which enhance the Groups fraud risk management capabilities in line with business and customer objectives, including engagement with external fraud detection and prevention bodies.
Group Financial Risk Committee Responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to GEC GRC GALCO, the Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP submissions, the Group Recovery Plan, and the annual stress testing of the Groups operating plan, PRA and EBA stress tests, and any other analysis as required.
Group Capital Risk Committee Provides oversight of capital matters within the Group including the Groups capital position, Pillar 2 requirements, regulatory reform and accounting developments specific to capital, and reviews regulatory submissions including the ICAAP and Recovery Plan prior to submission to GFRC.
Group Model Governance Responsible for setting the framework and standards for model governance across the Group, including Committee establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority and principles underlying the Groups risk modelling framework, specifically regarding consistency of approach across business units and risk types.
It approves risk models other than material models which are approved by GRC.
122 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 FULL ANALYSIS OF RISK DRIVERS The Groups risk framework covers all types of risk which affect the Group and could impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives.
A detailed description of each category is provided below.
Primary risk drivers Credit risk Conduct Market Operational Funding Capital Regulatory Insurance People risk Financial Governance risk risk risk and liquidity risk and legal risk reporting risk risk risk risk Page 124 Page 145 Page 146 Page 152 Page 154 Page 159 Page 166 Page 167 Page 168 Page 168 Page 169 Secondary risk drivers Portfolio Customer risk Interest rate risk Regulatory and Funding risk Capital Compliance risk Longevity risk Resourcing Financial and Governance concentration legal process sufficiency prudential Product risk Equity risk Liquidity risk Competition Mortality risk Performance Disclosure risk regulatory Client money Capital risk and reward Product Foreign Morbidity risk reporting Model risk Counterparty fiduciary efficiency distribution exchange risk Legal risk Culture and credit risk obligations Tax reporting Customer Ethics advice risk engagement and compliance Credit spread behaviour Country risk Conduct risk risk including Talent and process Pillar 3 Collateral persistency risk succession disclosure Inflation risk management Financial crime Property Learning risk Property risk Fraud insurance risk Well-being Alternative People process Expenses risk asset risk Legal and Sourcing regulatory Basis risk people Internal service Commodity risk provision External service provision divested clients Physical security and health and safety Information security and cyber IT systems Change Business process Financial reporting process Governance process Risk process Operational resilience The Group considers both reputational and financial impact in the course of managing all its risks and therefore does not classify reputational impact as a separate risk driver.
123 Risk management Risk management continued CREDIT RISK Definition Credit Risk is defined as the risk that parties with whom the Group has contracted fail to meet their financial obligations both on or off balance sheet.
Exposures The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and derivatives to customers, financial institutions and sovereigns.
The credit risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 52 on page 261. Credit risk exposures are categorised as retail, arising primarily in the Retail, Consumer Finance and Run-off divisions, and some small and medium sized enterprises SMEs and corporate including larger SMEs, corporates, banks, financial institutions and sovereigns arising primarily in the Commercial Banking, Run-off and Insurance Divisions and Group Corporate Treasury GCT.
In terms of loans and advances, for example loans and overdrafts and contingent liabilities for example credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and commercial letters of credit, credit risk arises both from amounts advanced and commitments to extend credit to a customer or bank.
With respect to commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is less than the total unused commitments, as most retail commitments to extend credit may be cancelled and the creditworthiness of customers is monitored regularly.
Most commercial term commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards, which together with the creditworthiness of customers are monitored regularly.
Credit risk also arises from debt securities and derivatives.
The total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and other contracts outstanding at 31December 2016 is shown on page 131.
The notional principal amount does not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
Such amounts are reflected in note 52 onpage 261.
Additionally, credit risk arises from leasing arrangements where the Group is the lessor.
Note 2 J on page 190 provides details on the Groups approach to the treatment of leases.
Credit risk exposures in the Insurance Division largely result from holding bond and loan assets in the shareholder funds including the annuity portfolio and from exposure to reinsurers.
The investments held in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes also expose the Group to credit risk.
Note 36 on page 222 provides further information on the defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities.
Loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and derivatives also expose the Group to refinance risk.
Refinance risk is the possibility that an outstanding exposure cannot be repaid at its contractual maturity date.
If the Group does not wish to refinance the exposure then there is refinance risk if the obligor is unable to repay by securing alternative finance.
This may be because the borrower is in financial difficulty, or because the terms required to refinance are outside acceptable appetite at the time.
Refinance risk exposures are managed in accordance with the Groups existing credit risk policies, processes and controls, and are not considered to be material given the Groups prudent and through the cycle credit risk appetite.
Where heightened refinance risk exists such as in Commercial Bankings Business Support Unit BSU or the run-off book exposures are minimised through intensive account management and are impaired and forborne where appropriate.
Measurement In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: i the probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and their likely future development, from which the Group derives the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations the loss given default.
For regulatory capital purposes the Groups rating systems assess probability of default and if appropriate, exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive Risk Weighted Assets RWAs and regulatory Expected Loss EL.
If not appropriate, regulatory prescribed exposure at default and loss given default values are used in order to derive RWAs and EL.
Impairment allowances are recognised for financial reporting purposes only for loss events that have occurred at the balance sheet date, based on objective evidence of impairment.
Due to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit losses provided for in the financial statements differs from the amount determined from the regulatory expected loss models.
Note 2 H on page 189 provides details of the Groups approach to the impairment of financial assets.
The obligor quality measurement of both retail and commercial counterparties is largely based on the outcomes of credit risk probability of default PD models.
The Group operates a number of different regulatory rating models, typically developed internally using statistical analysis and management judgement retail models rely more on the former, commercial models include more of the latter, especially in the larger corporateand more specialised lending portfolios.
Internal data is supplemented with external data in model development, where appropriate.
The models vary, inter alia, in the extent to which they are point in time versus through the cycle.
The models are subject to rigorous validation and oversight governance including, where appropriate, benchmarking to external information.
In the principal retail portfolios, exposure at default and loss given default models are in use.
For regulatory reporting purposes, counterparties are segmented into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities and exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
The Retail Master scale comprises 13 non-default ratings and one defaultrating.
In commercial portfolios the PD models also segment counterparties into a number of rating grades, with each grade representing a defined range of default probabilities.
Counterparties migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the PD changes.
The Corporate non-retail Master Scale comprises of 19 non-default ratings and 4 default rating grades, and forms the basis on which internal reporting is completed.
Mitigation The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
Prudent, through the cycle credit principles, risk policies and appetite statements: The independent Risk Division sets out the credit principles, risk policies and risk appetite statements.
Principles and policies are reviewed regularly, and any changes are subject to a review and approval process.
Policies and risk appetite statements, where appropriate, are supported by procedures, which provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for credit decisions.
Risk oversight teams monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to planned outcomes, and test the adequacy of credit risk infrastructure and governance processes throughout the Group, which includes tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of key appetite tolerances.
Oversight and reviews are also undertaken by Credit Risk Oversight and Group Audit.
124 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strong rating systems and controls: The Group has established an independent team in the Risk Division that sets common minimum standards, designed to ensure risk models and associated rating systems are developed consistently and are of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
Internal rating models are developed and owned by the Risk Division.
The designated model owner takes responsibility for ensuring the validation of the rating systems, supported and challenged by an independent specialist Group function.
Limitations on concentration risk: Credit risk management includes portfolio controls on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite as well as individual, customer and bank limit guidelines.
Credit policies and appetite statements are aligned to the Groups risk appetite and restrict exposure to higher risk countries and more vulnerable sectors and asset classes.
Note 18 on page 208 provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by industry for commercial customers and product for retail customers.
Exposures are monitored to prevent both an excessive concentration of risk and single name concentrations.
These concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum limit on exposure, but may instead require new business in concentrated sectors to fulfil additional minimum policy and or guideline requirements.
TheGroups large exposures are detailed to the Board and reported in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements.
Robust country risk management: The Board sets country risk appetite.
Within this, country limits are authorised by the Group Country Risk Appetite Committee, taking into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
Group policies stipulate that these limits must be consistent with, and support, the approved business and strategic plans of the Group.
Specialist expertise: Credit quality is managed and controlled by a number of specialist units within Risk Division providing, for example: intensivemanagement and control see Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty : security perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise indocumentation for lending and associated products: sector specific expertise: and legal services applicable to the particular market place and product range offered by the business.
Stress testing and scenario analysis: The Groups credit portfolios are also subjected to regular stress testing, with stress scenario assessments runat various levels of the organisation.
Exercises focused on individual Divisions and portfolios are performed in addition to the Group led and regulatory stress tests.
For further information on the stress testing process, methodology and governance refer to page 119.
Frequent and robust credit risk oversight and assurance: Undertaken by independent Credit Risk Oversight functions operating within Retail and Consumer Credit Risk and Commercial Banking Risk which are part of the Groups second line of defence.
Their primary objective is to provide reasonable and independent oversight that credit risk is being managed with appropriate and effective controls.
Group Audit performs the third line of credit risk assurance.
A specialist team within Group Audit, comprising experienced credit professionals, is in place to carry out independent risk based internal control audits, providing an assessment of the effectiveness of internal credit controls, across the full credit lifecycle including the raising of impairment provisions.
These audits cover the diverse range of the Groups businesses and activities, and include both standard risk based audits and reviews as well as agreed upon procedures to respond to any emerging risks or regulatory requirement.
The work of Group Audit therefore continues to provide executive, senior management and Board Audit Committee with assurance on effectiveness of credit risk controls, as well as appropriateness of impairments.
Additional mitigation for Retail and Consumer Finance customers The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing applications for mortgages and unsecured lending.
The general approval process uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicants previous credit history using information held by Credit Reference Agencies CRA.
The Group also assesses the affordability and sustainability of lending for each borrower, for secured lending this includes use of an appropriate stressed interest rate scenario.
Affordability assessments are compliant with relevant regulatory conduct guidelines.
The Group takes reasonable steps to validate information used in the assessment of a customers income and expenditure.
In addition, the Group has in place quantitative limits such as product maximum limits, the level of borrowing to income and the ratio of borrowing to collateral.
Some of these limits relate to internal approval levels and others are policy limits above which the Group will reject borrowing applications.
The Group also applies certain criteria that are applicable to specific products such as for applications for a mortgage on a property that is to be let by the applicant.
For UK Secured, the Groups policy permits owner occupier applications with a Loan to Value LTV maximum of 95percent.
Applications with an LTV above 90per cent are subject to enhanced underwriting criteria, including higher scorecard cut-offs.
Loans above 500,000 are subject to a range of further controls, including reduced maximum income multiples, and increased case review via manual underwriting.
Buy-to-let mortgages are limited to a maximum loan size of 1,000,000 and 75percent LTV.
Buy-to-let applications must pass a minimum Rental Cover Ratio of 125per cent under stressed interest rates, after applicable tax liabilities.
The Groups policy is to reject any application for a lending product where a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a recent County Court Judgment or financial default registered at a CRA used by the Group above fide minimis thresholds.
In addition, the Group rejects applicants where total unsecured debt, debt-to-income ratios, or other indicators of financial difficulty exceed policy limits.
Where credit acceptance scorecards are used, new models, model changes and monitoring of model effectiveness are independently reviewed and approved in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model Governance Committee.
Additional mitigation for Commercial customers Individual credit assessment and independent sanction of customer and bank limits: With the exception of small exposures to SME customers where relationship managers have limited delegated sanctioning authority, credit risk in commercial customer portfolios is subject to sanction by the independent Risk Division, which considers the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions, the balance of risk and reward, and how credit risk aligns to the Groups risk appetite.
Exposure to individual counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities and limit guidelines.
Approval requirements for each decision are based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the transaction amount, the customers aggregate facilities, credit policy risk appetite, credit risk ratings and the nature and term of the risk.
The Groups credit risk appetite criteria for counterparty and customer underwriting is generally the same as that for assets intended to be held to maturity.
All hard underwriting must be sanctioned via credit limits and a pre-approved credit matrix may be used for Best Efforts underwriting.
Counterparty limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivative transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures from market movements against agreed confidence intervals.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are established for each relevant counterparty to cover the aggregate of all settlement risk arising from the Groups market transactions on any single day.
125 Risk management Risk management continued Collateral The principal collateral types for loans and advances, contingent liabilities and derivatives with commercial and bank counterparties customers are: properties: charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivables: financial instruments such as debt securities: vehicles: cash: and guarantees received from third parties.
The Group maintains appetite guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral.
Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and advances is determined by the nature of the underlying exposure.
Debt securities, including treasury and other bills, are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments such as covered bonds, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
Collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into under a master netting agreement.
Derivative transactions with wholesale counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit Support Annex CSA in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Derivative transactions with non-bank customers are not usually supported by a CSA.
No collateral is held in respect of retail credit card or unsecured personal lending.
For non-mortgage retail lending to small businesses, collateral may include second charges over residential property and the assignment of life cover.
Commercial lending decisions must be based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
The requirement for collateral and the type to be taken at origination will be based upon the nature of the transaction and the credit quality, size and structure of the borrower.
For non-retail exposures, the Group will often require the collateral to include a first charge over land and buildings owned and occupied by the business, a debenture over one or more of the assets of a company or limited liability partnership, personal guarantees, limited in amount, from the directors of a company or limited liability partnership and key man insurance.
The Group maintains policies setting out acceptable collateral bases for valuation maximum LTV ratios and other criteria to be considered when reviewing an application.
Other than for project finance, object finance and income producing real estate where charges over the subject assets are required, the provision of collateral will not determine the outcome of an application.
Notwithstanding this, the fundamental business proposition must evidence the ability of the business to generate funds from normal business sources to repay a customer counterpartys financial commitment.
The extent to which collateral values are actively managed will depend on the credit quality and other circumstances of the obligor and type of underlying transaction.
Although lending decisions are based on expected cash flows, any collateral provided may impact the pricing and other terms of a loan or facility granted.
This will have a financial impact on the amount of net interest income recognised and on internal loss given default estimates that contribute to the determination of asset quality and returns.
Collateral values are assessed at the time of loan origination.
The Group requires collateral to always be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified source, independent of both the credit decision process and the customer, at the time of borrowing.
In certain circumstances, for Retail residential mortgages this may include the use of automated valuation models based on market data, subject to accuracy criteria and loan to value limits.
Collateral values are reviewed on a regular basis which will vary according to the type of lending, collateral involved and account performance.
Such reviews are undertaken to confirm that the value recorded in the Banks systems remains appropriate and whether revaluation is required, considering for example, account performance, market conditions and any information available that may indicate that the value of the collateral has materially declined.
In such instances, the Group may seek additional collateral.
For Retail residential mortgages, the Group adjusts open market property values to take account of the costs of realisation and any discount associated with the realisation of the collateral when estimating credit losses.
The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
The Group seeks to avoid correlation or wrong way risk where possible.
Under repo policy, the issuer of the collateral and the repo counterparty should be neither the same nor connected.
The same rule applies for derivatives.
The Risk Division has the necessary discretion to extend this rule to other cases where there is significant correlation.
Countries with a rating equivalent to AAand above may be considered to have no adverse correlation between the counterparty domiciled in the country and that country of risk issuer of securities.
Refer to note 52 for further information on collateral.
Master netting agreements It is credit policy that a Group approved Master Netting Agreement must be used for all transactions and must be in place prior to trading.
Any exceptions must be approved by the Credit Sanctioner.
Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis, within relevant jurisdictions and for appropriate counterparty types they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all trades with the counterparty may be terminated and settled on a net basis.
The Groups overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since this is the net position of all trades under the master netting agreement.
Other credit risk transfers The Group also undertakes asset sales, credit derivative based transactions and securitisations as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
Monitoring In conjunction with Risk Division, businesses identify and define portfolios of credit and related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours and characteristics by which those portfolios are managed and monitored in terms of credit risk exposure.
This entails the production and analysis of regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Risk Division in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are presented to the Divisional Risk Committees, Group Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
126 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular basis, in order to seek to ensure that models provide appropriate risk differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain as accurate and robust as practical, and the models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades pools.
All models are monitored against a series of agreed key performance indicators.
In the event that the monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations from expected outcomes, these will be escalated in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model Governance Committee.
Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty The Group operates a number of solutions to assist borrowers who are experiencing financial stress.
The material elements of these solutions through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily or permanently, are set out below.
Retail and Consumer Finance customers The Groups aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to customers in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the Group by discharging the Groups regulatory and social responsibilities to support its customers and act in their best long-term interests and by bringing customer facilities back into a sustainable position which, for residential mortgages, also means keeping customers in their homes.
The Group offers a range of tools and assistance to support customers who are encountering financial difficulties.
Cases are managed on an individual basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the customer.
Operationally, the provision and review of such assistance is controlled through the application of an appropriate policy framework, controls around the execution of policy, regular review of the different treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate, monitoring of customers performance andthe level of payments received, and management visibility of the nature and extent of assistance provided and the associated risk.
Assistance is provided through trained colleagues in branches and dedicated telephony units, and via online guidance material.
For those customers requiring more intensive help, assistance is provided through dedicated support units where tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
Customers are actively supported and referred to free money advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those at other lenders that require restructuring.
Within the Collections and Recoveries functions, the sharing of best practice and alignment of policies across the Group has helped to drive more effective customer outcomes and achieve operational efficiencies.
The specific tools available to assist customers vary by product and the customers status.
In defining the treatments offered to customers who have experienced financial distress, the Group distinguishes between the following categories: Reduced payment arrangements: a temporary arrangement for customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual payment, for example short-term arrangements to pay.
Term extensions: a permanent account change for customers in financial distress where the overall term of the mortgage is extended, resulting in a lower contractual monthly payment.
Repair: a permanent account change used to repair a customers position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, for example capitalisation of arrears.
Forbearance identification, classification and measurement The Group classifies Retail and Consumer Finance accounts as forborne at the time a customer in financial difficulty is granted a concession.
Accounts are classified as forborne only for the period of time which the exposure is known to be, or may still be, in financial difficulty.
Where temporary forbearance is granted, exit criteria are applied to include accounts until they are known to no longer be in financial difficulty.
Where the treatment involves a permanent change to the contractual basis of the customers account such as a capitalisation of arrears or term extension, the Group classifies the balance as forborne for a period of 24 months, after which no distinction is made between these accounts and others where no change has been made.
Those forborne loans which fall below individual assessment limits are grouped with other assets of similar characteristics and assessed collectively for impairment in accordance with the Group impairment policy detailed in note 2 H. The Groups approach is to ensure that provisioning models, supported by management judgement, appropriately reflect the underlying loss risk of exposures.
The performance and output of models are monitored and challenged on an ongoing basis, in line with the Groups model governance policies.
The Group measures the success of a forbearance scheme for Secured customers based upon the proportion of customers performing less than or equal to three months in arrears over the 24 months following the exit from a forbearance treatment.
For temporary treatments, 80percent of customers accepting reduced payment arrangements are performing.
For permanent treatments, 83percent of customers who have accepted capitalisations of arrears and 84percent of customers who have accepted term extensions are performing.
Customers receiving support from UK government sponsored programmes To assist customers in financial distress, the Group also participates in UK government sponsored programmes for households the most significant of which is the Income Support for Mortgage Interest which provides certain defined categories of customers access to a benefit scheme, paid for by the government, which covers all or part of the interest on the mortgage.
There are two primary categories: Unemployed customers claiming Jobseekers Allowance: Qualifying customers are able to claim for mortgage interest at 3.12per cent on up to 200,000 of the mortgage.
There is a two year time limit on claims.
Pension Credit customers: Qualifying customers are able to claim for mortgage interest at 3.12per cent on up to 100,000 of the mortgage and there is no time limit as to how long they can claim.
For both categories, all decisions regarding an individuals eligibility and any amounts payable under the scheme rest solely with the government.
Payments are made directly to the Group by the Department of Work and Pensions.
The Group estimates that customers representing approximately 1.8billion of its mortgage exposures are receiving this benefit, including those who are also receiving other treatments for financial difficulty.
Commercial customers Early identification, control and monitoring are key to supporting the customer and protecting the Group.
With the exception of small exposures in SME all non-retail exposures in the Commercial Banking and Run-off Divisions are reviewed at least annually and more frequently where required by the independent Risk Division.
As part of the Groups established Credit Risk Classification system, every exposure in the good book is categorised as either good or watchlist.
The term watchlist refers to cases which require closer monitoring on the good book and are split between Special Mention and Special Review the latter being the more serious of the two.
This complements the Groups risk rating tools and is designed to identify and highlight portfolio levels of asset quality as well as individual problem credits.
All watchlist names are reviewed by the Business and Risk Division regularly, and the classification is updated if required.
This process seeks to ensure that relationship managers act promptly to identify, and highlight to senior management those customers who have greater potential to become higher risk in the future.
127 Risk management Risk management continued Those customers deemed higher risk where there is cause for concern over future repayment capability or where there is a risk of the asset becoming impaired will be transferred to the Business Support Unit BSU at an early stage.
BSU will take over the credit responsibility for the customer relationship whilst the servicing responsibility remains with the original Relationship Manager.
The over-arching aim of the BSU is to provide support and work consensually with each customer to try and resolve the issues, restore the business to a financially viable position and thereby bring about abusiness turnaround.
This may involve a combination of restructuring, work out strategies and other types of forbearance.
With the exception of small exposures in SME, BSU case officers manage stressed and doubtful assets in Commercial Banking and are part of the independent Risk Division.
They are highly experienced and operate in a closely controlled and monitored environment, including regular oversight and close scrutiny by senior management.
Distressed run-off assets are managed to the same standards by Client Asset Management CAM.
A detailed assessment is undertaken for cases in BSU to assist in reducing and minimising risk exposure and to also highlight potential strategic options.
A range of information is required to fully appraise and understand the customers business and cashflow and therefore debt serviceability and may involve the Group, in addition to using its own internal sector experts, engaging professional advisers to perform asset valuations, strategic reviews and where applicable, independent business reviews.
The assessment may also involve: critically assessing a customers ability to effectively manage the business in a distressed situation where a turnaround needs to be delivered: analysis of market sector factors, i. e. products, customers, suppliers, pricing and margin issues: performance review of operational areas that should be considered in terms of current effectiveness and efficiency and scope for improvements: financial analysis to model plans and factor in potential sensitivities, vulnerabilities and upsides: and determining the most appropriate corporate and capital structure suitable for the work-out strategy concerned.
The above assessment, monitoring and control processes continue throughout the period the case is managed within the BSU.
All the analysis performed around cash flows is used to determine appropriate impairment provisions.
The level of Commercial Banking Division BSU gross lending to customers reduced from 4.2billion to 3.4billion between 31December 2015 and 31December 2016.
The net reduction of 0.8billion in BSU managed lending in Commercial Banking was driven by returns to mainstream, disposals, write-offs and repayments.
The Groups treatment of loan renegotiations is included in the impairment policy in note 2 H on page 189.
Income statement information set out inthe credit risk tables is on an underlying basis see page 37.
Forbearance A key factor in determining whether the Group treats a commercial customer as forborne is the granting of a concession which is outside the Groups current risk appetite to a borrower who experiences, or is believed to be about to experience, financial difficulty.
Where a concession is granted to a customer that is not in financial difficulty or the risk profile is considered within the Groups current risk appetite, the concession would not be considered to be an act of forbearance.
The Group does not believe forbearance reporting is appropriate for derivatives, available for sale assets and the trading book where assets are marked to market daily.
The Group recognises that forbearance alone is not necessarily an indicator of impaired status, but it is a trigger for the review of the customers credit profile.
If there is any concern over the future cash flows and or the Group incurring a loss, then forborne loans will be classified as impaired in accordance with the Groups impairment policy.
All impaired loans, including recoveries portfolios, are currently reported as forborne.
Recovery can sometimes be through improvement in market or economic conditions, or the customer may benefit from access to alternative sources of liquidity, such as an equity injection.
These can be especially relevant in real estate or other asset backed transactions where a fire sale of assets in a weak market may be unattractive.
Depending on circumstances and when operated within robust parameters and controls, the Group believes forbearance can help support the customer in the short to medium-term.
The Group expects to have unimpaired forborne assets within its portfolios, where default has been avoided, or when no longer considered impaired, although the majority of these cases will be managed in the BSU, where more intensive management and monitoring is available.
Unimpaired forborne assets are included in calculating the overall collective unidentified impairment provision, which uses the historical observed default rate and loss emergence period of the relevant portfolio as a whole as part of its calculation.
Whilst the material portfolios have been reviewed for forbearance, some non-retail loans and advances in Commercial Banking and Run-off Divisions have not been reviewed on the basis that the level of unimpaired forbearance is relatively immaterial, or because the concept of forbearance is not relevant.
These include Lloyds Bank Commercial Finance Ltd and The Agricultural Mortgage Corporation Plc.
Types of forbearance The Groups strategy and offer of forbearance is largely dependent on each customers individual situation.
Early identification, control and monitoring are key to supporting the customer and protecting the Group.
Concessions are often provided to help the customer with their day to day liquidity and working capital.
A number of options are available to the Group where a customer is facing financial difficulty and each case is treated depending on its own specific circumstances.
For commercial customers, the Group currently looks at forbearance concessions including changes to: Contractual payment terms for example loan maturity extensions, or changes to capital and or interest servicing arrangements, including capital repayment holidays or conversion to interest only terms : and Non-payment contractual terms for example covenant amendments or waivers where the concession enables default to be avoided.
The main types of forbearance concessions to commercial customers in or facing financial difficulty are set out below: Covenants: This includes temporary and permanent waivers, amendment or resetting of non-payment contractual covenants including LTV and interest cover.
The granting of this type of concession in itself would not result in the loan being classified as impaired and the customer is kept under review in the event that further forbearance is necessary: Extensions Alterations: This includes extension and or alteration of repayment terms to a level outside of market or the Groups risk appetite due to the customers inability to make existing contractual repayment terms: amendments to an interest rate to a level considered outside of market or the Groups risk appetite, or other amendments such as changes to capital and or interest servicing arrangements including capital repayment holidays or conversion to interest only terms: and Multiple type of forbearance a combination of the above two.
128 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Forbearance identification, classification and measurement All non-retail loans and advances on the watchlist are further categorised depending on the current and expected credit risk attaching to the customer and the transaction.
All watchlist names are reviewed by the business and independent Risk function regularly and the classification is updated if required.
Any event that causes concern over future payments is likely to result in the customer being assessed for impairment and, if required, an impairment allowance recognised.
If impairment is identified, the customer is immediately transferred to BSU if not already managed there and the lending will be treated as impaired.
All of a customers impaired loans are treated as forborne as they are considered as having been or will be granted some form of forbearance.
Mostimpaired loans and advances exist only in the BSU within Commercial Banking Division and Run-off Division.
A portfolio approach is taken for SME customers with exposures below 1million managed in BSU.
All customers with exposures below 1million are reported as forborne whilst they are managed by SME BSU whether impaired or unimpaired.
All reviews performed in the good book, BSU within Commercial Banking or in the Run-off Division include analysis of latest financial information, a consideration of the market and sector the customer operates in, performance against plan and revised terms and conditions granted as part of any forbearance concession that may have been provided.
Exit from forbearance A customer where forbearance has been granted will remain treated and recorded as forborne until it evidences acceptable performance over a period of time.
This period will depend on a number of factors such as whether the customer is trading in line with its revised plan, it is operating within the new terms and conditions including observation to revised covenants and contractual payments, its financial performance is stable or improving and there are no undue concerns over its future performance.
As a minimum, this cure period is currently expected to be at least 12 months following a forbearance event.
Customers curing are managed according to their overriding Credit Risk Classification categorisation: this could be in BSU, Run Off or in mainstream Good Book.
The exception to this 12 month minimum period is where a permanent structural cure is made for example, an injection of new collateral security or a partial repayment of debt to restore an LTV back to within a covenant.
In this case, the customer may exit forbearance once the permanent cure has been made.
However, notwithstanding this, the overriding requirement for exit from forbearance in all cases is that the customer is not impaired and the reason for the forbearance event is no longer present.
Upon exit from forbearance the customer may be returned to the mainstream good classification.
It is important to note that such a decision can be made only by the independent Risk Division.
The Group credit risk portfolio in 2016 Overview Asset quality remains strong with portfolios continuing to benefit from the Groups pro-active approach to risk management, continued low interest rates and a resilient UK economic environment.
The impairment charge increased by 14percent to 645million in 2016 compared to 568million in 2015.
Gross charges remained broadly flat with the increase in net charges largely due to lower levels of releases and write-backs.
The asset quality ratio for 2016 was 15 basis points compared to 14 basis points during 2015 and the gross asset quality ratio excluding releases and write-backs was stable at 28 basis points.
Looking forward the 2017 full year asset quality ratio is expected to increase to around 25 basis points primarily reflecting lower releases and write-backs.
Impaired loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances reduced to 1.8percent at 31December 2016, from 2.1percent at 31December 2015, with impaired loans reducing by 1,095million to 8,495million during the period, due to further reductions in the Commercial Banking, Consumer Finance and Run-off portfolios.
Low risk culture and prudent risk appetite The Group continues to operate a prudent approach to credit risk, with the portfolios benefiting from the focus on credit at origination and a prudent through the cycle approach to credit risk appetite.
The Groups portfolios are well positioned against current economic concerns and market volatility.
The Groups credit processes and controls ensure effective risk management, including early identification and management of customers and counterparties who may be showing signs of distress.
The Group has delivered lending growth in key segments without relaxing credit criteria despite terms and conditions in some of the Groups markets being impacted by increased competition and, in Commercial Banking, uncertainty in some sectors.
Sector concentrations within the lending portfolios are closely monitored and controlled, with mitigating actions taken where appropriate.
Sector and product caps limit exposure to certain higher risk and vulnerable sectors and asset classes.
In particular: The average indexed LTV of the Retail UK Secured portfolio at 31December 2016 was 44.0percent 31December 2015: 46.1percent.
The percentage of closing loans and advances with an indexed LTV greater than 100percent was 0.7percent 31December 2015: 1.1percent.
Total UK Direct Real Estate gross lending across the Group was 19.9billion 31 December 2015: 19.7 billion.
This mainly includes Commercial Banking lending of 18.5billion, 0.5billion booked in the Islands Commercial business and 0.2billion within Retail Business Banking within RetailDivision with the Group continuing to write new business within conservative risk appetite parameters.
The Groups significantly reduced legacy run-off direct real estate portfolio has continued to fall to 0.7billion at 31December 2016 31 December 2015: 1.1 billion, and now represents a very modest element of the total UK Direct Real Estate lending portfolio.
Run-off net external assets stood at 11,336million at 31December 2016, down from 12,154million at 31December 2015.
The portfolio represents only 2.1percent of the overall Groups loans and advances 31December 2015: 2.3percent.
129 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.4: Group impairment charge Debtsecurities AvailableLoansand classifiedas for-sale Other advancesto loans and financial credit risk 1 customers receivables assets provisions Total 2015 2016 m m m m m m Retail 373 373 349 Commercial Banking 21 5 16 22 Consumer Finance 282 282 235 Run-off 17 9 26 8 Central items 2 2 2 Total impairment charge 657 12 645 568 Asset quality ratio 0.15% 0.14% Gross asset quality ratio 0.28% 0.28% 1 Restated.
130 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Table 1.6: Group impaired loans and provisions Impaired Provision Loansand loansas% as%of advancesto Impaired ofclosing Impairment impaired 1 2 customers Loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31December 2016 Retail 299,493 4,354 1.5 1,630 38.2 Commercial Banking 101,176 2,179 2.2 824 37.8 Consumer Finance 35,494 745 2.1 396 85.0 Run-off 10,259 1,217 11.9 682 56.0 3 Reverse repos and other items 15,249 Total gross lending 461,671 8,495 1.8 3,532 43.4 Impairment provisions 3,532 4 Fair value adjustments 181 Total Group 457,958 5 At 31December 2015 Retail 307,500 4,112 1.3 1,564 39.2 Commercial Banking 103,082 2,543 2.5 1,091 42.9 Consumer Finance 31,827 910 2.9 367 75.5 Run-off 11,422 2,025 17.7 1,150 56.8 3 Reverse repos and other items 5,798 Total gross lending 459,629 9,590 2.1 4,172 46.1 Impairment provisions 4,172 4 Fair value adjustments 282 Total Group 455,175 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding loans in recoveries in Retail 31December 2016: 86million: 31December 2015: 118million and in Consumer Finance 31December 2016: 279million: 31December 2015: 424million.
3 Includes 6.7billion December 2015: 5.7billion of lower risk loans sold by Commercial Banking and Retail to Insurance to back annuitant liabilities.
4 The fair value adjustments relating to loans and advances were those required to reflect the HBOS assets in the Groups consolidated financial records at their fair value and took into account both the expected losses and market liquidity at the date of acquisition.
The fair value unwind in respect of impairment losses incurred was 70 million for the year ended 31December 2016 31December 2015: 97million.
The fair value unwind in respect of loans and advances is expected to continue to decrease in future years and will reduce to zero over time.
Table 1.7: Derivative credit risk exposures 2016 2015 Tradedoverthecounter Tradedoverthecounter Tradedon Settled Notsettled Tradedon Settled Notsettled recognised by central by central recognised bycentral by central exchanges counterparties counterparties Total exchanges counterparties counterparties Total m m m m m m m m Notional balances Foreign exchange 254 369,368 369,622 6,568 383,722 390,290 Interest rate 167,399 3,023,742 423,709 3,614,850 31,128 3,598,307 791,351 4,420,786 Equity and other 32,172 11,046 43,218 4,837 9,337 14,174 Credit 8,098 8,098 4,566 4,566 Total 199,571 3,023,996 812,221 4,035,788 42,533 3,598,307 1,188,976 4,829,816 Fair values Assets 262 35,563 103 28,811 Liabilities 1 34,506 131 26,149 Net asset 261 1,057 28 2,662 The total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other contracts outstanding at 31December 2016 and 31December 2015 is shown in the table above.
Such amounts are reflected in note 52 on page 261.
131 Risk management Risk management continued Retail Asset quality remains strong across all portfolios, with stable new business quality and fewer loans entering arrears.
The impairment charge increased by 24million to 373million for 2016, an increase of 7 per cent compared to 2015.
The Overdrafts impairment charge increased by 12 million to 241 million, driven by a change to collections entry criteria.
The Secured impairment charge increased by 6 million to 104 million, reflecting a continued prudent approach to provisioning.
The Retail Business Banking impairment charge increased by 6 million to 27 million, following a revised modelling approach and an increase in lending balances.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans decreased to 38.2percent from 39.2percent at the end of 2015.
Table 1.8: Retail impairment charge 1 2016 2015 Change m m % Secured 104 98 6 Overdrafts 241 229 5 Wealth 1 1 Retail Business Banking 27 21 29 Total impairment charge 373 349 7 Asset quality ratio 0.12% 0.11% 1bp 1 Restated.
Table 1.9: Retail impaired loans and provisions Impairment Impaired provisions Loansand loans as a % as a % advancesto Impaired of closing Impairment of impaired 1 2 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31December 2016 Secured 294,503 4,104 1.4 1,503 36.6 Overdrafts 1,952 179 9.2 90 82.6 Wealth 2,034 44 2.2 15 34.1 Retail Business Banking 1,004 27 2.7 22 200.0 Total gross lending 299,493 4,354 1.5 1,630 38.2 Impairment provisions 1,630 Fair value adjustments 181 Total 297,682 3 At 31December 2015 Secured 302,413 3,818 1.3 1,431 37.5 Overdrafts 2,028 211 10.4 95 78.5 Wealth 2,164 40 1.8 19 47.5 Retail Business Banking 895 43 4.8 19 126.7 Total gross lending 307,500 4,112 1.3 1,564 39.2 Impairment provisions 1,564 Fair value adjustments 273 Total 305,663 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding loans in recoveries for Overdrafts 31 December 2016: 70 million: 31 December 2015: 90 million and Retail Business Banking 31December 2016: 16 million: 31 December 2015: 28 million.
132 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Secured The impairment charge increased by 6 million to 104million in 2016 31 December 2015: 98 million.
Loans and advances reduced by 2.6percent on the Secured book to 295billion, with reductions in both the Mainstream and buy-to-let portfolios.
The closed Specialist portfolio has continued to run-off, reducing by 10.0percent to 18billion.
Impaired loans increased by 286million to 4,104million in 2016 and the value of mortgages greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions increased by 128million to 6,033million at 31December 2016 31December 2015: 5,905million.
These are both principally due to delayed litigation while changes were made to legal processes.
New business quality remained stable and flows into arrears improved.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans was 36.6 per cent 31 December 2015: 37.5 per cent.
Against a backdrop of strong improvement in the housing market, with UK prices rising 6 per cent over 2016 on a quarterly non-seasonally adjusted basis, provisions remain prudent and reflect the latent risks of the current low interest rate environment.
The average indexed LTV of the portfolio at 31December 2016 improved to 44.0percent compared with 46.1percent at 31December 2015.
The percentage of closing loans and advances with an indexed LTV in excess of 100percent improved to 0.7percent at 31December 2016, compared with 1.1percent at 31December 2015.
The average LTV for new mortgages written in 2016, including participation in the UK Governments Help To Buy scheme, was 64.4 per cent compared with 64.7percent for 2015.
Additional controls for new buy-to-let lending were implemented ahead of the regulatory deadline, with no relaxation in risk appetite.
Table 1.10: Retail Secured loans and advances to customers At31Dec At31Dec 2016 2015 m m Mainstream 222,450 227,267 Buy-to-let 54,460 55,598 1 Specialist 17,593 19,548 Total Secured 294,503 302,413 1 Specialist lending has been closed to new business since 2009.
The stock of repossessions increased to 678 cases at 31December 2016 compared to 654 cases at 31December 2015.
Interest only mortgages The Group provides interest only mortgages to owner occupier mortgage customers whereby only payments of interest are made for the term of the mortgage with the customer responsible for repaying the principal outstanding at the end of the loan term.
At 31 December 2016, interest only balances as a proportion of total owner occupier balances had reduced to 31.3 per cent 31 December 2015: 33.9 per cent.
The average indexed loan to value improved to 43.8 per cent 31 December: 46.6 per cent.
New owner occupier interest only mortgages are subject to conservative underwriting criteria with rigorous controls on customers' ability to repay the principal at the end of term.
New interest only mortgages, including those with any element of capital repayments represented 1.9 per cent of 2 new residential mortgages in 2016 2.8 per cent in 2015.
For existing interest only mortgages, a contact strategy is in place throughout the term of the mortgage to ensure that customers are aware of their obligations to repay the principal upon maturity of the loan.
Treatment strategies are in place to help customers anticipate and plan for repayment of capital at maturity and support those who may have difficulty in repaying the principal amount.
A dedicated specialist team supports customers who have passed their contractual maturity date and are unable to fully repay the principal.
A range of treatments are offered such as full or part conversion to capital repayment, and extension of term to match the maturity dates of any associated repayment vehicles.
134 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Table 1.13: Analysis of owner occupier interest only mortgages 2016 2015 1 Interest only balances m 72,651 81,558 Of which, impaired % 3.1 2.5 Average loan to value % 43.8 46.6 2 Maturity profile m : 1 year 2,496 1,709 2-5 years 9,877 10,123 6-10 years 16,990 17,084 11 years 41,927 51,502 3 Past term interest only balances m 1,361 1,140 Of which, impaired % 10.5 9.7 Average loan to value % 31.5 32.5 Negative equity % 1.4 1.8 1 In addition the Group has buy-to-let interest only balances of 48,575 million 2015: 49,751 million and certain other interest only balances of 3,703 million 2015: 3,705 million.
2 December 2015 values have been restated to now include the interest only elements of mortgage accounts which consist of partial interest only and partial capital repayment.
3 Past term interest only balances are reported excluding any element being repaid on a capital and interest basis.
December 2015 balances have been restated on the same basis.
Forborne loans UK Secured forborne loans and advances reduced by 1,006million in 2016 to 2,096 million, primarily due to a reduction in recapitalisations with higher levels of historic cases exiting the two year probation period, and a tightening of eligibility criteria during the year.
At 31 December 2016, UK Secured loans and advances currently or recently subject to forbearance improved to 0.7percent 31December 2015: 1.0percent of total UK Secured loans and advances.
Overdrafts forborne loans and advances have reduced by 9 million in 2016 to 78 million.
At 31December 2016, Overdrafts loans and advances currently or recently subject to forbearance were 4.0percent 31December 2015: 4.3percent of total overdrafts loans and advances.
Further analysis of the Retail forborne loan balances is set out below: Table 1.14: UK Retail forborne loans and advances audited Impairment provisions as % of Total loans and advances which Total forborne loans and loans and advances which are are forborne advances which are impaired forborne At Dec At Dec At Dec At Dec At Dec At Dec 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m % % UK Secured lending: Temporary forbearance arrangements 1 Reduced payment arrangements 428 414 101 41 4.9 4.2 Permanent treatments 2 Repair and term extensions 1,668 2,688 116 132 4.7 4.2 Total 2,096 3,102 217 173 4.7 4.2 3 Overdrafts 78 87 61 63 38.0 35.0 1 Includes customers who had an arrangement to pay less than the contractual amount at 31December or where an arrangement ended within the previous three months.
2 Includes capitalisation of arrears and term extensions which commenced during the previous 24 months and where the borrowers remain as customers at 31December.
3 Includes temporary treatments where the customer is currently benefiting from the change or the treatment has ended within the last six months.
135 Risk management Risk management continued The movements in Retail forborne loans and advances during the year are as follows: Table 1.15: Movement in UK Retail forborne loans and advances audited 2016 2015 UK UK Secured Overdrafts Secured Overdrafts m m m m At 1 January 3,102 87 4,394 89 Classified as forborne during the year 975 50 1,290 53 Written-off sold 12 31 25 26 Exit from forbearance 1,741 24 2,252 22 Redeemed or repaid 200 263 Exchange and other movements 28 4 42 7 At 31 December 2,096 78 3,102 87 Commercial Banking The Commercial Banking net impairment charge was 16 million in 2016, compared to a net impairment release of 22 million in 2015, with the increase largely due to one material charge related to a case within the oil & gas sector, rather than a deterioration in the underlying portfolio.
Other than this, gross charges remained relatively low in 2016.
The portfolio continues to benefit from effective risk management and the continued low interest rate environment.
Credit quality of the portfolio and new business remains generally good.
Impaired loans reduced by 14percent to 2,179million at 31December 2016 compared with 2,543million at 31December 2015 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances reduced to 2.2percent from 2.5percent at 31December 2015.
Impairment provisions reduced to 824million at 31December 2016 31December 2015: 1,091million and includes collective unidentified impairment provisions of 183million 31December 2015: 229million.
Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans reduced from 42.9percent to 37.8percent during 2016, heavily influenced by the net movement of three material cases with different coverage levels that has impacted the portfolio average.
The UK faces a number of significant headwinds including the changing global economic outlook and the impact of the EU Exit referendum outcomewhich have the ability to impact the Commercial Banking portfolios.
Commercial Banking remains disciplined within its low risk appetite approach and key credit risks continue to be effectively managed, including early identification and management of potential concern customers.
We manage and limit exposure to certain sectors and asset classes, and closely monitor credit quality, sector and single name concentrations.
Detailed EU Exit portfolio impact assessments have been undertaken and internal and external key performance indicators are being monitored closely to help identify early signs of any deterioration.
Despite the uncertain economic headwinds, the portfolios are well positioned and monitoring confirms that we have yet to see any material deterioration in the credit quality of our portfolios.
However, given the challenging environment our portfolios will not be immune and impairments are likely to increase from their historic low levels, driven mainly by lower levels of releases and write-backs and an element of credit normalisation.
Table 1.16: Commercial Banking impairment charge 2016 2015 Change m m % SME 7 22 68 Other 23 Total impairment charge 16 22 1 Asset quality ratio 0.02% 0.01% 1bp 1 In respect of loans and advances to customers.
136 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Table 1.17: Commercial Banking impaired loans and provisions Impairment Impaired provisions Loansand loansas a% asa% advances to Impaired of closing Impairment of impaired 1 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2016 SME 29,959 923 3.1 173 18.7 Other 71,217 1,256 1.8 651 51.8 Total gross lending 101,176 2,179 2.2 824 37.8 Impairment provisions 824 Total 100,352 2 At 31 December 2015 SME 29,393 1,149 3.9 213 18.5 Other 73,689 1,394 1.9 878 63.0 Total gross lending 103,082 2,543 2.5 1,091 42.9 Impairment provisions 1,091 Total 101,991 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
SME The SME Banking portfolio continues to grow within prudent credit risk appetite parameters.
Portfolio credit quality has remained stable or improved across all key metrics.
SME continues to benefit from write-backs releases.
There was a net impairment release of 7million in 2016 compared to a net release of22million during 2015.
Other Commercial Banking Other Commercial Banking comprises 71,217million of gross loans and advances to customers in Mid Markets, Global Corporates and Financial Institutions.
The Mid Markets business remains UK-focused and credit quality has been generally stable during 2016.
The downturn in global oil and gas prices, which began in 2015, has created pressure on some parts of the oilfield services portfolio but this has not translated into a significant increase in defaults or impairment in the Mid Markets book.
Political events during 2016, in particular the EU Exit referendum outcome, have brought volatility to financial markets but to date this has not led to a material increase in stress within the Mid Markets portfolio.
The Global Corporates business continues to have a predominance of investment grade clients, primarily UK based.
The portfolio remains of good quality despite the current global economic headwinds particularly relating to the EUExit referendum outcome and volatile commodity prices in the oil&gas and mining sectors.
The real estate business within the Groups Mid Markets and Global Corporate portfolio is focused on clients operating in the UK commercial property market ranging in size from medium sized private real estate entities up to publicly listed property companies.
The uncertainties created by the EU Exit referendum outcome have reduced activity in the second half of 2016 but the market for UK real estate has continued to be resilient and credit quality remains good with minimal impairments stressed loans.
Recognising this is a cyclical sector, appropriate caps are in place to control exposure and business propositions continue to be written in line with a prudent, through the cycle risk appetite with conservative LTVs, strong quality of income and proven management teams.
Financial Institutions serves predominantly investment grade counterparties with whom relationships are either client focused or held to support the Groups funding, liquidity or general hedging requirements.
Overall limits have been relatively stable as we continue to prudently manage the portfolio within our conservative risk appetite and clearly defined sector strategies.
The Group continues to adopt a conservative stance across the Eurozone maintaining close portfolio scrutiny and oversight particularly given the current macro environment and horizon risks.
Commercial Banking UK Direct Real Estate LTV analysis The Group classifies Direct Real Estate as exposure which is directly supported by cash flows from property activities as opposed to trading activities, such as hotels, care homes and housebuilders.
Focus remains on the UK market, on good quality customers, with a proven track record in Real Estate and where cash flows are robust.
Commercial Banking saw some growth in its UK Direct Real Estate core portfolio during 2016 with business continuing to be written within conservative risk appetite parameters.
Excluding 0.5billion in the Islands Commercial business, Commercial Banking UK Direct Real Estate gross lending stood at 18.5billion at 31December 2016.
Approximately 70percent of loans and advances to UK Direct Real Estate relate to commercial real estate with the remainder relating to residential real estate.
The portfolio continues to be heavily weighted towards investment real estate c. 90percent over development.
The LTV profile of the UK Direct Real Estate portfolio in Commercial Banking continues to improve.
2 Predominantly investment grade corporate CRE lending where the Group is relying on the corporate covenant.
3 December 2016 5m exposures include 9.4 billion within SME which has an LTV profile broadly similar to the 5m exposures.
Forborne loans Commercial Banking forbearance At 31 December 2016, 2,645 million 31 December 2015: 3,529 million of total loans and advances were forborne of which 2,179 million 31December 2015: 2,543 million were impaired.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of forborne loans and advances increased marginally from 30.9 per cent at 31 December 2015 to 31.2 per cent at 31 December 2016.
Table 1.19: Commercial Banking forborne loans and advances audited Impairment provisions as % Total loans and advances of loans and advances which which are forborne are forborne 1 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m % % Impaired 2,179 2,543 37.8 42.9 Unimpaired 466 986 Total 2,645 3,529 31.2 30.9 1 Restated.
All impaired assets are considered forborne.
Impaired loans and advances The movements in Commercial Banking impaired forborne loans and advances were as follows: Table 1.20: Movement in Commercial Banking impaired forborne loans and advances audited 1 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 2,543 3,241 Classified as impaired during the year: Exposures 5m 547 505 Exposures 5m 124 126 671 631 Transferred to unimpaired: Exposures 5m but still reported as forborne 15 Exposures 5m no longer reported as forborne 31 20 Exposures 5m 81 111 112 146 Written-off 311 225 Asset disposal sales of impaired assets 33 48 Drawdowns repayments 595 693 Exchange and other movements 16 217 At 31 December 2,179 2,543 1 Restated.
138 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Unimpaired loans and advances Unimpaired forborne loans and advances were 466million at 31December 2016 31December 2015: 986million.
The table below sets out the largest unimpaired forborne loans and advances to Commercial Banking customers exposures over 5million as at 31December 2016 by type of forbearance: 1 Table 1.21: Commercial Banking unimpaired forborne loans and advances audited 31 Dec 31 Dec 2016 2015 m m Type of unimpaired forbearance: Exposures 5m Covenants 153 310 Extensions alterations 7 350 Multiple 21 9 181 669 Exposures 5m 285 317 Total 466 986 1 Material portfolios only.
1 Table 1.22: Movement in Commercial Banking unimpaired forborne loans and advances 5m audited 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 669 1,450 Classified as impaired during the year 63 141 Cured no longer forborne 413 655 Classified as forborne during the year 88 156 1 Transferred from impaired but still reported as forborne 15 Asset disposal sales Net drawdowns repayments 100 153 Exchange and other movements 3 At 31 December 181 669 1 Balances exclude intra-year movements.
Consumer Finance UK Loans and advances increased during 2016, driven by strong growth ahead of the market in the UK Motor Finance portfolio, and continued growth in line with the market in the Credit Cards portfolio.
Asset quality remains strong, and the quality of new business continues to be good.
Credit risk appetite has been maintained, and the Group has robust indebtedness and affordability controls to ensure new lending is sustainable for our customers.
The impairment charge increased by 47 million to 282 million largely due to the UK Motor Finance portfolio, in which there was overall growth as well as the non-recurrence of a favourable one-off in 2015. Credit Cards balances grew broadly in line with the market, and underlying credit quality remained strong.
Impaired loans fell by 59million due to continued reductions in recoveries, and impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans remained stable.
Loans balances contracted marginally and underlying credit quality remained strong.
Impaired loans fell by 90million largely due to reductions in recoveries, and impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans remained broadly stable.
Growth in UK Motor Finance loans and advances was ahead of the market, in part due to strategic relationships with business partners such as Jaguar Land Rover, which also contributed to the strong underlying credit quality in the portfolio.
Impaired loans fell by 14 million largely due to a reclassification of impaired balances for some finance leases, and on an underlying basis grew broadly in line with the portfolio.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased, reflecting the reclassification of impaired balances, and portfolio growth coupled with a prudent approach to residual value.
Table 1.23: Consumer Finance impairment charge 2016 2015 Change m m % Credit Cards 136 129 5 Loans 70 83 16 UK Motor Finance 75 22 Europe 1 1 282 235 20 Asset quality ratio 0.83% 0.77% 6bp 139 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.24: Consumer Finance impaired loans and provisions Impairment Impaired provisions Loans and loans as a % as a % of advances to Impaired of closing Impairment impaired 1 2 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2016 Credit cards 9,843 307 3.1 157 81.8 Loans 7,767 277 3.6 92 81.4 UK Motor Finance 11,555 120 1.0 127 105.8 Europe 6,329 41 0.6 20 48.8 Total gross lending 35,494 745 2.1 396 85.0 Impairment provisions 396 Fair value adjustments Total 35,098 3 At 31 December 2015 Credit cards 9,425 366 3.9 153 81.8 Loans 7,889 367 4.7 102 83.6 UK Motor Finance 9,582 134 1.4 90 67.2 Europe 4,931 43 0.9 22 51.2 Total gross lending 31,827 910 2.9 367 75.5 Impairment provisions 367 Fair value adjustments 9 Total 31,451 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding loans in recoveries for Cards 31 December 2016: 115 million: 31 December 2015: 179 million and Loans 31December 2016: 164million: 31 December 2015: 245 million.
Forborne loans At 31 December 2016, total loans and advances currently or recently subject to forbearance as a percentage of total loans and advances had reduced across the major Consumer Finance portfolios with decreases in Consumer Credit Cards and Loans offset by an increase in UK Motor Finance.
Table 1.25: Consumer Finance forborne loans and advances audited Impairment provisions Total loans and advances Total forborne loans and as % of loans and advances which are forborne advances which are impaired which are forborne 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m % % 1 Consumer Credit Cards 212 225 119 120 29.0 26.8 2 Loans 49 60 46 56 44.4 47.2 2 UK Motor Finance Retail 117 100 62 51 27.0 25.5 1 Includes temporary treatments where the customer is currently benefiting from the change or the treatment has ended within the last six months.
Permanent changes, such as returning a Card account in arrears to an in-order status, which commenced during the last 24 months for existing customers as at 31 December are also included.
2 Includes temporary treatments where the customer is currently benefiting from the change or the treatment has ended within the last six months.
Permanent changes, such as refinancing, for existing customers as at 31 December are also included.
140 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The movements in forborne loans and advances during the year were: Table 1.26: Movement in Consumer Finance forborne loans and advances audited 2016 2015 Consumer UK Motor Consumer UK Motor credit cards Loans Finance Retail credit cards Loans Finance Retail m m m m m m At 1 January 225 60 100 234 73 109 Classified as forborne during the year 110 34 82 108 16 61 Written off sold 46 24 16 48 29 15 Exit from forbearance 43 4 22 36 4 21 Redeemed or repaid 9 6 16 9 6 19 Exchange and other movements 25 11 11 24 10 15 At 31 December 212 49 117 225 60 100 Run-off The Ireland retail portfolio continues to reduce in volume due to closed book attrition 3 per cent year on year, however exposure has increased by 457million to 4,497million in 2016 31 December 2015: 4,040 million due to the foreign exchange impact of sterling weakening, partly offset by capital repayments.
Ireland retail loans and advances with an indexed LTV in excess of 100 per cent improved to 1,240 million 27.8 per cent at 31 December 2016, compared with 1,269 million 31.4 per cent at 31 December 2015.
Of this amount 70 million were impaired 31 December 2015: 71 million.
The Corporate real estate and other corporate portfolio has continued to reduce in line with expectations.
Net loans and advances reduced by 337million, from 1,128million at 31December 2015 to 791million at 31December 2016.
Total net external assets for the Specialist finance asset based run-off portfolio reduced to 4,668million at 31December 2016 gross 4,779million, from 5,552million gross 5,742million for 2015.
Assets include Ship Finance, Aircraft Finance, Leasing and Infrastructure loans and advances, aswell as the reducing Treasury Asset legacy investment portfolio and operating leases.
Table 1.27: Run-off impairment charge 2016 2015 Change m m % Ireland retail 1 5 80 Ireland corporate and commercial real estate 13 72 Corporate real estate and other corporate 1 21 95 Specialist finance 2 45 96 Other 11 35 69 Total 26 8 1 Asset quality ratio 0.15% 0.20% 35 bp 1 In respect of loans and advances to customers.
141 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.28: Run-off impaired loans and provisions Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions as a advances to Impaired closing Impairment % of impaired customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31December 2016 Ireland retail 4,497 138 3.1 133 96.4 Ireland corporate 1 1 100.0 Corporate real estate and other corporate 1,190 896 75.3 399 44.5 Specialist finance 3,374 99 2.9 111 112.1 Other 1,197 83 6.9 39 47.0 Total gross lending 10,259 1,217 11.9 682 56.0 Impairment provisions 682 Total 9,577 At 31 December 2015 Ireland retail 4,040 132 3.3 120 90.9 Ireland corporate 29 Ireland commercial real estate 8 5 62.5 Corporate real estate and other corporate 1,873 1,410 75.3 745 52.8 Specialist finance 4,190 361 8.6 189 52.4 Other 1,282 117 9.1 96 82.1 Total gross lending 11,422 2,025 17.7 1,150 56.8 Impairment provisions 1,150 Total 10,272 Forborne loans Run-off Ireland retail lending At 31December 2016, 156million or 3.5percent 31December 2015: 169million or 4.2percent of Irish retail secured loans and advances were subject to current or recent forbearance.
Of this amount, 19million 31December 2015: 26million were impaired.
Run-off Corporate real estate, other corporate and Specialist Finance At 31December 2016 998 million 31 December 2015 1,780million of total loans and advances were forborne of which 995million 31December2015: 1,771million were impaired.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of forborne loans and advances decreased from52.5percent at 31December 2015 to 51.1 per cent at 31 December 2016.
Unimpaired forborne loans and advances were 3million at 31December 2016 31December 2015: 9million.
Impaired loans and advances The movements in Run-off corporate real estate, other corporate and Specialist Finance impaired forborne loans and advances were as follows: Table 1.29: Movement in Run-off corporate real estate, other corporate and Specialist Finance impaired forborne loans and advances audited 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 1,771 1,912 Classified as impaired during the year: Exposures 5 million 20 414 Exposures 5 million 19 11 39 425 Transferred to unimpaired: Exposures 5 million but still reported as forborne during the year 13 Exposures 5 million 8 11 8 24 Write offs 478 238 Asset disposal sales of impaired assets 405 763 Drawdowns repayments 24 19 Exchange and other movements 100 478 At 31 December 995 1,771 142 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Eurozone exposures The following section summarises the Groups direct exposure to Eurozone countries at 31December 2016.
The exposures comprise on balance sheet exposures based on their balance sheet carrying values net of provisions and off balance sheet exposures, and are based on the country of domicile of the counterparty unless otherwise indicated.
The Group manages its exposures to individual countries through authorised country limits which take into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
In addition, the Group manages its direct risks to the selected countries by establishing and monitoring risk limits for individual banks, financial institutions, corporates and individuals.
Identified indirect exposure information, where available is also taken into account when setting limits and determining credit risk appetite for individual counterparties.
This forms part of the Groups credit analysis undertaken at least annually for counterparty and sector reviews, with interim updates performed as necessary.
Interim updates would usually be triggered by specific credit events such as rating downgrades, sovereign events or other developments such as spread widening.
Examples of indirect risk which have been identified, where information is available, are: European Banking groups with lending and other exposures to certain Eurozone Countries: corporate customers with operations or significant trade in certain European jurisdictions: major travel operators known to operate in certain Eurozone Countries: and international banks with custodian operations based in certain European locations.
The Group Financial Stability Forum GFSF monitors developments within the Eurozone, carries out stress testing through detailed scenario analysis and completes appropriate due diligence on the Groups exposures.
The Group has pre-determined action plans that would be executed in certain scenarios which set out governance requirements and responsibilities for the key actions which would be carried out and cover risk areas such as payments, liquidity and capital, communications, suppliers and systems, legal, credit, delivery channels and products, employees and the impact on customers.
Derivative balances are included within exposures to financial institutions or corporates, as appropriate, at fair value adjusted for master netting agreements at obligor level and net of cash collateral in line with legal agreements.
Exposures in respect of reverse repurchase agreements are included on a gross IFRS basis and are disclosed based on the counterparty rather than the collateral repos and stock lending are excluded : reverserepurchase exposures are not, therefore, reduced as a result of collateral held.
Exposures to central clearing counterparties are shown net.
For multi-country asset backed securities exposures, the Group has reported exposures based on the largest country exposure.
The country of exposure for asset backed securities is based on the location of the underlying assets which are predominantly residential mortgages not on the domicile of the issuer.
For Insurance, the Group has reported shareholder exposures i. e. where the Group is directly exposed to risk of loss.
These shareholder exposures relate to direct investments where the issuer is resident in the named Eurozone country and the credit rating is consistent with the tight credit criteria defined under the appropriate investment mandate.
Insurance also has interests in funds domiciled in Ireland and Luxembourg where, in line with the investment mandates, cash is invested in short term financial instruments.
For these funds, the exposure is analysed on a look through basis to the country of risk of the obligors of the underlying assets rather than treating as exposure to country of domicile of the fund.
Exposures to selected Eurozone countries The Group continues to have minimal exposure, in aggregate, which could be considered to be direct recourse to the sovereign risk of the selectedcountries.
Table 1.30: Selected Eurozone exposures Sovereigndebt  Direct Cash at Asset sovereign central backed Insurance 1 2 1 exposures banks Banks Other securities Corporate Personal assets Total m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2016 Ireland 215 512 91 929 4,363 6,110 Spain 23 76 126 630 41 19 915 Portugal 7 22 7 36 Italy 38 59 67 164 Greece 23 336 638 91 1,640 4,411 86 7,225 At 31 December 2015 Ireland 748 445 87 731 3,921 5,932 Spain 77 102 870 39 9 1,097 Portugal 7 86 6 99 Italy 32 51 73 156 Greece 1 1 864 547 87 1,739 3,966 82 7,285 1 Excludes reverse repurchase exposure to Institutional funds domiciled in Ireland secured by UK gilts of 14,506 million 2015: 11,267 million on a gross basis.
2 Ireland Retail exposures have increased by c0.4bn as a result of the depreciation of sterling against the Euro c0.7bn offset by asset reductions primarily driven by repayments of c0.3bn.
Environmental risk management The Group ensures appropriate management of the environmental impact of its lending activities.
The Group-wide credit risk principles require allcredit risk to be incurred with due regard to environmental legislation and the Groups Code of Business Responsibility.
Within Commercial Banking, an electronic environmental risk screening system has been the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk in lending transactions.
This system provides screening of location specific and sector based risks that may be present in a transaction.
Identified risk results in the transaction referred to the Groups expert in-house environmental risk team for further review and assessment, as outlined below.
Where required, the Groups panel of environmental consultants provide additional expert support.
The Group provides colleague training in environmental risk management as part of the standard suite of credit risk courses.
Supporting this training, a range of online resource is available to colleagues and includes environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
The Group has been a signatory to the Equator Principles since 2006 and has adopted and applied the expanded scope of Equator Principles III.
The Equator Principles support the Groups approach to assessing and managing environmental and social issues in Project Finance, Project-Related Corporate loans and Bridge loans.
Table 1.32: Environmental risk management approach Group credit principles Environmental Risk Initial transaction Detailed Environmental Environmental screening review due diligence risk approval Credit policies Relationship In-house team, Panel including any teams retained consultants conditions consultancy Business unit processes Sector briengs Supporting tools Legislation briengs 144 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CONDUCT RISK Definition Conduct risk is defined as the risk of customer detriment or regulatory censure and or a reduction in earnings value, through financial or reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment or business conduct.
Exposures The Group faces significant conduct risks, which affect all aspects of the Groups operations, all types of customers and other stakeholders.
These can be considered across two main categories: customer conduct risks and market conduct risks.
Customer conduct risks are those that have a direct impact on a customer or group of customers and can materialise through products or services not meeting the needs of its customers: sales processes resulting in poor customer outcomes: or the failure to deal with a customers complaint effectively which in turn may lead to a referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Market conduct risks can exist where activity taken can disrupt the fair and effective operation of a market in which the Group is active.
Market conduct risks can arise from the mismanagement of market sensitive information, the failure to identify and report suspicious transactions or orders, or through inaccurate benchmark submissions.
There is an ongoing high level of scrutiny regarding financial institutions treatment of customers, including those in vulnerable circumstances, from regulatory bodies, the media, politicians and consumer groups.
As a result, there is a risk that certain aspects of the Groups current or legacy business may be determined by the Financial Conduct Authority, other regulatory bodies or the courts as not being conducted in accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or in a manner that fails to deliver fair and reasonable customer treatment.
The Group may also be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the conduct of itsbusiness.
There is also a significant regulatory focus on market misconduct, resultant from previous issues around LIBOR and FX.
Measurement To articulate its conduct risk appetite, the Group has sought more granularity through the use of suitable conduct risk metrics and tolerances that indicate where it may potentially be operating outside its conduct appetite.
Conduct Risk Appetite Metrics CRAMs have been designed for all product families offered by the Group: a set of common metrics have been agreed for all products to support a consistent approach.
These contain a range of product design, sales and post-sales metrics to provide a more holistic view of conduct risks: each product also has additional bespoke metrics.
The common metrics are sales volume, product governance adherence, target market, outcome testing: meets customer needs, outcome testing: information disclosure, outcome testing: regulatory compliance, retention, usage, claims decline rates, complaints, Financial Ombudsman Service uphold rate and complaints outcome testing.
Each of the tolerances for the metrics are agreed for the individual product and are tracked monthly.
At a consolidated level these metrics are part of the Board approved risk appetite.
The Group also continues to measure the effectiveness ofthe overall strategic focus on conduct within the divisions and functions and its impact on customer outcomes and the effective implementation ofthe Customer Vulnerability agenda through the Group Customer First Committee GCFC.
In relation to market conduct, relevant metrics are being established, and will continue to evolve in line with external developments.
These cover a range of topics including the management of confidential and market sensitive information: and the way in which conflicts of interest are managed.
Mitigation The Group takes a range of mitigating actions with respect to this risk.
The transition of the customer-focused UK centric strategy into the Business has strengthened its culture and values, improved systems and processes, and implemented more effective controls.
These actions are being further embedded throughout the Group across all business areas and all supporting functional areas through the continued evolution of the strategic focus on conduct within business as usual supported by the GCFC, including: Conduct risk appetite established at Group and business area level, with metrics included in the Board Risk Appetite to ensure ongoing due-focus: Customer needs explicitly considered within business and product level planning and strategy, with Divisional plans reviewed and challenged by the GCFC: Cultural transformation, supported by strong direction and tone from senior executives and the Board.
This is underpinned by the Groups values and Codes of Responsibility, to deliver the best bank for customers: Establishment of the Customer Vulnerability Framework, which operates at a senior level to prioritise change, drive implementation and ensure consistency across the Group: Development of the Groups Customer Journey Strategy and Framework to support our focus on conduct from an end-to-end customer perspective: Enhanced product governance framework to ensure products continue to offer customers fair value, and consistently meet their needs throughout their product life cycle: Enhanced complaints management through effectively responding to, and learning from, root causes to reduce complaint volumes and the Financial Ombudsman Service change rate: Enhanced recruitment and training, with a focus on how the Group manages colleagues performance with clearer customer accountabilities: and Ongoing focus on the strategic conduct agenda in our interactions with third parties involved in serving the Groups customers to ensure consistent delivery of needs met.
The Group has also prioritised activity designed to reinforce good conduct in its engagement with the markets in which it operates.
This has included the creation of a Market Conduct Steering Committee, training for relevant colleagues, the development of enhanced procedures, and the enhancement of preventative and detective controls including the Groups trade surveillance and continuous surveillance capability.
The Groups leadership team, through the GCFC, has oversighted and approved the transition of the Conduct Strategy within the business as usual tosupport the development of the right customer centric culture.
The Board and Group Risk Committee receive regular qualitative and quantitative reports to track progress on how the Group is meeting customer needs and minimising conduct risk across all areas of thebusiness.
The Group actively engages with regulatory bodies and other stakeholders in developing its understanding of current customer treatment concerns, and those relating to the fairness and effectiveness of markets, to ensure that the Groups strategic conduct focus in business as usual continues to meet evolving stakeholder expectations.
Monitoring Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business area committees.
As part of the reporting of CRAMs, a robust outcomes testing regime, for both sales and complaints processes, is in place to test performance of customer critical activities.
The GCFC has responsibility for monitoring and reviewing integrated measurement of enhanced outcomes, customer views and cultural transformation, including challenging Divisions to make changes based on key learnings to support the delivery of the Groups vision and foster a customer centric culture.
Monitoring activity has also increased in scope to cover trading and communication surveillance, and the monitoring and testing of controls relevant to our market conduct agenda.
145 Risk management Risk management continued MARKET RISK Definition Market risk is defined as the risk that unfavourable market moves including changes in and increased volatility of interest rates, market-implied inflation rates, credit spreads and prices for bonds, foreign exchange rates, equity, property and commodity prices and other instruments lead to reductions in earnings and or value.
Balance sheet linkages The information provided in table 1.33 below aims to facilitate the understanding of linkages between banking, trading, and insurance balance sheet items and the positions disclosed in the Groups market risk disclosures.
Table 1.33: Market risk linkage to the balance sheet Banking Trading Total book only Non-trading Insurance 2016 m m m m Primary market risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 47,452 47,452 Interest rate Trading and other financial assets at fair Interest rate, foreign exchange, value through profit or loss 151,174 45,247 4,039 101,888 credit spread Interest rate, foreign exchange, Derivative financial instruments 36,138 30,951 2,713 2,474 credit spread Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 26,902 5,583 21,319 Interest rate 1 Loans and advances to customers 457,958 457,958 Interest rate Debt securities 3,397 3,397 Interest rate, credit spread 488,257 466,938 21,319 Interest rate, foreign exchange, Available-for-sale financial assets 56,524 56,522 2 credit spread Value of in-force business 5,042 5,042 Equity Other assets 33,206 16,811 16,395 Interest rate Total assets 817,793 76,198 594,475 147,120 Liabilities Deposits from banks 16,384 16,384 Interest rate Customer deposits 415,460 415,460 Interest rate Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 54,504 45,079 9,425 Interest rate, foreign exchange Interest rate, foreign exchange, Derivative financial instruments 34,924 30,143 1,967 2,814 credit spread Debt securities in issue 76,314 76,314 Interest rate, credit spread Liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts 114,502 114,502 Credit spread Subordinated liabilities 19,831 18,012 1,819 Interest rate, foreign exchange Other liabilities 37,059 9,376 27,683 Interest rate Total liabilities 768,978 75,222 546,938 146,818 1 Includes 6.7 billion of lower risk loans within the banking book sold by Commercial Banking and Retail to Insurance to manage market risk arising from annuitant liabilities within the Insurance business.
The defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities are included under Other assets and Other liabilities in this table and note 36 on page 222 provides further information.
The Groups trading book assets and liabilities are originated by Financial Markets within the Commercial Banking division.
Within the Groups balance sheet these fall under the trading assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The assets and liabilities are classified as trading books if they have been acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near future.
These consist of government, corporate and financial institution bonds and loans deposits and repos.
Further information on these activities can be found under the Trading portfolios section on page 151.
Derivative assets and liabilities are held by the Group for three main purposes: to provide risk management solutions for clients, to manage portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge the Groups own risks.
The majority of derivatives exposure arises within Financial Markets.
Insurance business assets and liabilities relate to policyholder funds, as well as shareholder invested assets, including annuity funds.
The Group recognises the value of in-force business in respect of Insurances long-term life assurance contracts as an asset in the balance sheet see note 24, page213.
146 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Group ensures that it has adequate cash and balances at central banks and stocks of high quality liquid assets e. g. Gilts or US Treasury Securities that can be converted easily into cash to meet liquidity requirements.
The majority of these assets are held as available-for-sale with the remainder held as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Further information on these balances can be found under the Funding and Liquidity Risk on page 155.
Interest rate risk in the asset portfolios is swapped into a floating rate.
The majority of debt issuance originates from the Issuance, Capital Vehicles and Medium Term Notes desks and the interest rate risk of the debt issued is hedged by swapping them into a floating rate.
The non trading book primarily consists of customer on balance sheet activities and the Groups capital and funding activities, which expose it to the risk of adverse movements in market prices, predominantly interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity prices, as described in further detail within the Banking activities section page 148.
Table 1.34 shows the key material market risks for the Groups banking, defined benefit pension schemes, Insurance and tradingactivities.
Table 1.34: Key material market risks for the Group by individual business activity profit before tax impact measured against Group single stress scenarios Risk type 2016 Interest Rate Basis Risk FX Credit Spread Equity Inflation 1 Banking activities l l l l 1 Defined benefit pension scheme l n 1 Insurance portfolios l l l 2 Trading portfolios Profit before tax Loss Gain 500m l n 250m 500m l n 50m 250m l n Immaterial zero 1 Banking Activities: Insurance and Pensions stresses: Interest rate -100 bps, Basis 3 month Libor 100bps Bank Base Rate -25pbs, FX -15 per cent GBP.
Credit Spread 100 per cent, Equity -30 per cent, Inflation 50 bps.
2 Trading Portfolios: Interest rate -30bps, FX -5 per cent GBP, Credit spread 20 per cent, Inflation 30bps.
Measurement In addition to measuring single factors, board risk appetite is calibrated primarily to five economic multirisk scenarios, and is supplemented with sensitivity based measures.
The scenarios assess the impact of unlikely, but plausible adverse stresses on income, with the worst case for banking activities, defined benefit pensions, insurance and trading portfolios reported against independently, and across the Group as a whole.
The Board risk appetite is cascaded first to the Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, where risk appetite is approved and monitored by risk type, and then to Group Market Risk Committee GMRC where risk appetite is sub allocated by Division.
These metrics are reviewed regularly by senior management to inform effective decision making.
Mitigation GALCO is responsible for approving and monitoring group market risks, management techniques, market risk measures, behavioural assumptions, and the market risk policy.
Various mitigation activities are assessed and undertaken across the Group to manage portfolios and seek to ensure they remain within approved limits.
The mitigation actions will vary dependent on exposure, but will, in general, look to reduce risk in a cost effective manner, by offsetting balance sheet exposures and externalising through to the financial markets dependent on market liquidity.
The market risk policy is owned by Group Corporate Treasury GCT and refreshed annually.
The policy is underpinned by supplementary market risk procedures, which define specific market risk management and oversight requirements.
Monitoring GALCO and the GMRC regularly review high level market risk exposure, as part of the wider risk management framework.
They also make recommendations to the Group Chief Executive concerning overall market risk appetite and Group Market Risk Policy.
Exposures at lower levels of delegation are monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
Levels of exposures compared to approved limits and triggers are monitored by Risk Division and where appropriate, escalation procedures are in place.
How market risks arise and are managed across the Groups activities is considered in more detail below.
147 Risk management Risk management continued Banking activities Exposures The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse movements in market prices, predominantly interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity prices.
The volatility of market values can be affected by both the transparency of prices and the amount of liquidity in the market for the relevant asset or liability.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk in the Groups divisional portfolios and in the Groups capital and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets, liabilities see loans and advances to customers and customer deposits in table 1.36 and off balance sheet positions.
Behavioural assumptions are applied to i embedded optionality within products: ii the duration of balances that are contractually repayable on demand, such as current accounts and overdrafts, together with net free reserves of the group: and iii to the re-pricing behaviour of managed rate liabilities namely variable rate savings.
Basis risk arises from the possible changes in spreads, for example where the bank lends with reference to a central bank rate but funds with reference to LIBOR and the spread between these two rates widens or tightens.
Prepayment risk arises, predominantly in the Retail division, as customer balances amortise more quickly or slowly than anticipated due to economic conditions or customers response to changes in economic conditions.
Pipeline and pre hedge risk arises where new business volumes are higher or lower than forecasted.
Foreign exchange risk Economic foreign exchange exposure arises from the Groups investment in its overseas operations net investment exposures are disclosed in note52 on page 261.
In addition, the Group incurs foreign exchange risk through non-functional currency flows from services provided by customer facing divisions and the Groups debt and capital management programmes.
Equity risk Equity risk arises primarily from three different sources: i the Groups strategic equity holdings in Banco Sabadell, Aberdeen Asset Management, and Visa Europe: ii exposure to Lloyds Banking Group share price through deferred shares and deferred options granted to employees as part of their benefits package: and iii the Groups private equity investments held by Lloyds Development Capital.
Credit spread risk Credit spread risk arises largely from i the liquid asset portfolio held in the management of Group liquidity, comprising of government, supranational, and other eligible assets: and ii the Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA and Debit Valuation Adjustment DVA sensitivity to credit spreads: and iii a number of the Groups structured medium term notes where we have elected to fair value the notes through the profit and loss account.
Measurement Interest rate risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily: i Market value sensitivity: this methodology considers all repricing mismatches behaviourally adjusted where appropriate in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that would result from an instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis points parallel rise or fall in the yield curve subject to an appropriate floor.
ii Interest income sensitivity: this measures the impact on future net interest income arising from an instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis points parallel rise or fall in all the yield curves over a rolling 12 month basis subject to an appropriate floor.
Unlike the market value sensitivities, the interest income sensitivities incorporate additional behavioural assumptions as to how and when individual products would reprice in response to such change.
iii Market Value limit: this caps the amount of conventional and inflation-linked government bonds held by the Group for liquidity purposes.
iv Structural hedge limits: these metrics enhance understanding of assumption and duration risk taken within the behaviouralisation of this portfolio.
The Group has an integrated Asset and Liability Management ALM system which supports non traded asset and liability management of the Group.
This provides a single consolidated tool to measure and manage interest rate repricing profiles including behavioural assumptions, perform stress testing and produce forecast outputs.
The Group is aware that any assumptions based model is open to challenge.
A full behavioural review is performed annually to ensure the assumptions remain appropriate.
A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
Table 1.35 below shows, split by material currency, the Groups market value sensitivities to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 and 100 basis points change to all interest rates.
The market value sensitivity is driven by temporary customer flow positions not yet hedged plus other positions occasionally held within limits, by the Groups wholesale funding desks in order to minimise overall funding and hedging costs.
The level of risk is low relative to the size of the total balancesheet.
148 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Table 1.36 below shows supplementary value sensitivity to a steepening and flattening in the yield curve.
This ensures there are no unintended consequences to managing risk to parallel shifts in rates.
Table 1.36: Banking activities: market value sensitivity to a steepening and flattening of the yield curve 2016 2015 Steepener Flattener Steepener Flattener m m m m Sterling 5.8 13.2 105.7 97.1 US Dollar 0.7 1.3 3.4 4.8 Euro 15.3 12.8 0.5 2.0 Other 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total 20.6 27.1 109.4 103.7 The table below shows the banking book income sensitivity to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 and 100 basis points change to all interestrates.
Table 1.37: Banking activities: net interest income sensitivity audited 2016 2015 Up 25bps Down 25bps Up 100bps Down 100bps Up 25bps Down 25bps Up 100bps Down 100bps m m m m m m m m Client facing activity and associated hedges 176.8 286.1 724.9 408.0 152.4 140.1 604.7 464.2 Income sensitivity is measured over a rolling 12 month basis.
The interest income sensitivity continues to reflect structural hedging against margin compression.
The increased sensitivity reflects both the timing of margin management, and the level of floors giving rise to increased compression risk in the Group.
Basis risk, foreign exchange, equity, and credit spread risks are measured primarily through scenario analysis by assessing the impact on profit before tax over a 12 month horizon arising from a change in market rates, and reported within the Board Risk Appetite on a monthly basis.
Supplementary measures such as sensitivity and exposure limits are applied where they provide greater insight into risk positions.
Frequency of reporting supplementary measures varies from daily to quarterly appropriate to each risk type.
Mitigation The Groups policy is to optimise reward whilst managing its market risk exposures within the risk appetite defined by the Board.
The Group Market Risk policy and procedures outlines the hedging process, and the centralisation of risk from divisions into GCT, e. g. via Transfer Pricing Framework.
GCT is responsible for managing the centralised risk and does this through natural offsets of matching assets and liabilities, and appropriate hedging activity of the residual exposures, subject to the authorisation and mandate of GALCO within the Board risk appetite.
Derivative desks in Financial Markets will then externalise the hedges to the market.
The Group has hedge accounting solutions in place, which reduce the accounting volatility arising from the Groups economic hedging activities by utilising both Libor based and Bank base rate assets.
The largest residual risk exposure arises from balances that are deemed to be insensitive to changes in market rates including current accounts, aportion of variable rate deposits and investable equity, and is managed through the Groups structural hedge.
Consistent with the Groups strategy to deliver stable returns, GALCO seeks to minimise large reinvestment risk, and to smooth earnings over a range of investment tenors.
The amount and duration of the hedging activity is reviewed regularly by GALCO, with current maximum duration of around four years.
Whilst the bank faces margin compression in the current low rate environment, its exposure to pipeline and prepayment risk are not considered material, and are hedged in line with expected customer behaviour.
These are appropriately monitored and controlled through Divisional ALCOs.
Net investment foreign exchange exposures are managed centrally by GCT, by hedging non GBP asset values with currency borrowing.
Economic foreign exchange exposures arising from non-functional currency flows are identified by divisions and transferred and managed centrally.
The Group also has a policy of forward hedging its forecasted currency profit and loss to year end.
Monitoring The appropriate limits and triggers are monitored by senior executive Committees within the Banking divisions.
Banking assets, liabilities and associated hedging are actively monitored and if necessary rebalanced to be within agreed tolerances.
Defined benefit pension schemes Exposures The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are exposed to significant risks from their assets and liabilities.
The liability discount rate provides exposure to interest rate risk and credit spread risk, which are partially offset by fixed interest assets such as gilts and corporate bonds and swaps.
Equity and alternative asset risk arises from direct asset holdings.
For further information on defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities please refer to note 36 on page 222.
Measurement Management of the assets is the responsibility of the Trustees of the schemes who are responsible for setting the investment strategy and for agreeing funding requirements with the Group.
Should a funding deficit arise, the Group will be liable for meeting it, and as part of a triennial valuation process will agree with the Trustees a funding strategy to eliminate the deficit over an appropriate period.
149 Risk management Risk management continued Mitigation The Group takes an active involvement in agreeing risk management and mitigation strategies with the schemes Trustees.
An interest rate and inflation hedging programme is in place to reduce liability risk.
In recent years the schemes have also reduced equity allocation and invested the proceeds in credit assets as part of a programme to fide-risk the portfolio.
Monitoring In addition to the wider risk management framework, governance of the schemes includes two specialist pensions committees one Group executive sub-committee and a supporting management committee.
The surplus or deficit in the schemes is tracked on a monthly basis along with various single factor and scenario stresses which consider the assets and liabilities holistically.
The impact on Group capital resources of the schemes is monitored monthly.
Performance against risk appetite triggers is also monitored monthly.
Hedges are in place and asset liability matching positions are also actively monitored.
Insurance portfolios Exposures The main elements of market risk to which the Group is exposed through the Insurance business are equity, credit spread, interest rate and inflation.
Equity risk arises indirectly through the value of future management charges on policyholder funds.
These management charges form part of the value of in-force business see note 24 on page 213.
Equity risk also arises in the with-profits funds but is less material.
Credit spread risk mainly arises from annuities where policyholders future cashflows are guaranteed at retirement.
Exposure arises if the market value of the assets which are held to back these liabilities, mainly corporate bonds and loans, do not perform in line with expectations.
Within the Group accounts a large amount of the exposure to market value movements, but not actual default losses, is removed as accounting rules require that assets Insurance have acquired from Group are maintained at the original amortised book value.
Interest rate risk arises through holding credit and interest assets mainly in the annuity book and also to cover general insurance liabilities, capital requirements and risk appetite.
Inflation exposure arises from a combination of inflation linked policyholder benefits and inflation assumptions used to project future expenses.
Measurement Current and potential future market risk exposures within Insurance are assessed using a range of stress testing exercises and scenario analyses.
Risk measures include 1-in-200 year stresses used for regulatory capital assessments and single factor stresses for profit before tax.
Table 1.38 demonstrates the impact of the Groups UK Recession stress scenario with no diversification benefit on Insurances portfolio: this is the most onerous scenario for Insurance out of the Group scenarios.
The amounts include movements in assets, liabilities and the value of in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
Table 1.38: Insurance business: profit before tax sensitivities Increase reduction in profit before tax 1 2016 2015 m m Interest rates decrease 100 basis points 142 9 Inflation increase 50 basis points 34 23 Credit spreads 100% widening 812 864 Equity 30% fall 681 616 Property 25% fall 58 51 1 Restated.
The most onerous scenario has changed to UK Recession from Fiscal Solvency.
Further stresses that show the effect of reasonably possible changes in key assumptions, including the risk-free rate, equity investment volatility, widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds and an increase in illiquidity premia, as applied to profit before tax are set out in note 33.
Mitigation Equity and credit spread risks are closely monitored and, where appropriate, asset liability matching is undertaken to mitigate risk.
A hedging strategy is in place to reduce exposure from the with-profit funds.
Interest rate risk in the annuity book is mitigated by investing in assets whose cash flows closely match those on the projected future liabilities.
It is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the required maturities.
As a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely matched and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
Other market risks e. g. interest rate exposure outside the annuity book and inflation are also closely monitored and where considered appropriate, hedges are put in place to reduce exposure.
Monitoring Market risks in the Insurance business are monitored by Insurance senior executive committees and ultimately the Insurance Board.
Monitoring includes the progression of market risk capital against risk appetite limits, as well as the sensitivity of profit before tax to combined market risk stress scenarios and in year market movements.
Asset liability matching positions and hedges in place are actively monitored and if necessary rebalanced to be within agreed tolerances.
In addition market risk is controlled via approved investment policies and mandates.
150 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Trading portfolios Exposures The Groups trading activity is small relative to its peers and the Group does not have a programme of proprietary trading activities.
The Groups trading activity is undertaken solely to meet the financial requirements of commercial and retail customers for foreign exchange, credit and interest rate products.
These activities support customer flow and market making activities.
All trading activities are performed within the Commercial Banking division.
While the trading positions taken are generally small, any extreme moves in the main risk factors and other related risk factors could cause significant losses in the trading book depending on the positions at the time.
The average 95percent 1-day trading VaR diversified across risk factors was 1.3million for year end 2016 compared to 1.4million for year end 2015.
This decrease was due to the significant fide-risking activities that took place at the portfolio level.
Trading market risk measures are applied to all the Groups regulatory trading books and they include daily VaR table 1.39, sensitivity based measures, and stress testing calculations.
Measurement The Group internally uses VaR as the primary risk measure for all trading book positions.
Table 1.39 shows some relevant statistics for the Groups 1-day 95percent confidence level VaR that are based on 300 historical consecutive business days to year end 2016 and year end 2015.
The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the minimum expected loss in earnings given the 95percent confidence.
The total and average trading VaR numbers reported below have been obtained after the application of the diversification benefits across the five risk types.
The maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR reported at Group level.
Table 1.39: Trading portfolios: VaR 1-day 95percent confidence level audited At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Close Average Maximum Minimum Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m m m m m Interest rate risk 0.7 1.3 7.7 0.5 0.8 1.4 3.5 0.8 Foreign exchange risk 0.1 0.3 0.8 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.8 0.1 Equity risk Credit spread risk 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.4 1.0 0.2 Inflation risk 0.2 0.3 5.9 0.1 0.1 0.3 1.6 0.1 All risk factors before diversification 1.2 2.1 14.3 1.1 1.3 2.3 6.2 1.3 Portfolio diversification 0.5 0.8 0.4 0.9 Total VaR 0.7 1.3 5.7 0.6 0.9 1.4 3.1 0.8 The market risk for the trading book continues to be low with respect to the size of the Group and compared to our peers.
This reflects the fact that the Groups trading operations are customer-centric and focused on hedging and recycling client risks.
Note that the maximum VaR reported at 5.7million was due to the incomplete booking of a position by end of day 22 March 2016 and hence did not reflect the true end of day position and was not a real limit breach.
The VaR returned to normal levels once the booking was completed the next day.
The next highest VaR was 3.8million.
Although it is an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has limitations.
One of them is the use of limited historical data sample which influences the output by the implicit assumption that future market behaviour will not differ greatly from the historically observed period.
Another known limitation is the use of defined holding periods which assumes that the risk can be liquidated or hedged within that holding period.
Also calculating the VaR at the chosen confidence interval does not give enough information about potential losses which may occur if this level is exceeded.
The Group fully recognises these limitations and supplements the use of VaR with a variety of other measurements which reflect the nature of the business activity.
These include detailed sensitivity analysis, position reporting and a stress testing programme.
Trading book VaR 1-day 99percent is compared daily against both hypothetical and clean profit and loss.
1-day 99percent VaR charts for Lloyds Bank, HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group models can be found in the Groups Pillar 3 Report.
Mitigation The level of exposure is controlled by establishing and communicating the approved risk limits and controls through policies and procedures thatdefine the responsibility and authority for risk taking.
Market risk limits are clearly and consistently communicated to the business.
Any new oremerging risks are brought within risk reporting and defined limits.
Monitoring Trading risk appetite is monitored daily with 1-day 95percent VaR and Stress Testing limits.
These limits are complemented with position level action triggers and profit and loss referrals.
Risk and position limits are set and managed at both desk and overall trading book levels.
They are reviewed at least annually and can be changed as required within the overall Group risk appetite framework.
151 Risk management Risk management continued OPERATIONAL RISK Definition Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
The aim of operational risk management is to manage operational risks, protecting customers and the Group, whilst delivering sustainable growth.
Operational risks are managed in line with defined appetites through the Group Operational Risk Management Framework, evaluating key exposures, measuring risks, mitigating risks, and monitoring risks on an ongoing basis, as set out below.
Exposures The principal operational risks to the Group are: The risk that the Group is unable to provide services to customers as a result of an IT systems failure: Cyber risks associated with malicious attacks on the confidentiality or integrity of electronic data, or the availability of systems: Fraud and financial crime arising from acts of deception or omission: Ensuring compliance with increasingly complex and detailed anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism, sanctions and prohibitions laws and regulations, as failure to do so would adversely impact the Groups reputation and potentially incur fines and other legal enforcements: Risks arising from inadequate delivery of services to customers: The risk associated with the ongoing provision of services to TSB and other organisations: and Terrorist acts, other acts of war or hostility, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events.
A number of these risks also apply where there is a reliance on third party suppliers to provide services to the Group or its customers.
Measurement Operational risk is managed within a Board approved framework and risk appetite.
A variety of measures are used such as: scoring of potential risks, using impact and likelihood, with impact thresholds aligned to risk appetite statements: assessment of the effectiveness of controls: monitoring of events and losses by size, business unit and internal risk categories.
Table 1.40 below shows high level loss and event trends for the Group using Basel II categories.
Based on data captured on the Groups Operational Risk System, in 2016, the highest frequency of events occurred in external fraud 61.58percent and execution, delivery and process management 24.80percent.
Clients, products and business practices accounted for 77.62percent of losses by value, driven by legacy issues where impacts materialised in 2016 excluding PPI.
Table 1.40: Operational risk events by risk category losses greater than or equal to 10,000, excluding PPI % of total volume % of total losses 2016 2015 2016 2015 Business disruption and system failures 1.01 0.40 0.55 0.13 Clients, products and business practices 11.31 11.46 77.62 83.43 Damage to physical assets 1.05 0.06 0.27 0.04 Employee practices and workplace safety 0.04 0.03 Execution, delivery and process management 24.80 15.81 19.23 11.08 External fraud 61.58 71.96 2.31 5.27 Internal fraud 0.21 0.28 0.02 0.05 Total 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Operational risk scenario assessments and actual losses are used by the Group to calculate the appropriate holding of operational risk regulatory capital under the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The Group calculates its minimum Pillar I operational risk capital requirements using The Standardised Approach TSA, which the Basel Committee has stated as being appropriate for an internationally active bank.
152 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Mitigation The Group continues to review and invest in its control environment to ensure it addresses the inherent risks faced.
Risks are reported and discussed at local governance forums and escalated to executive management and Board as appropriate.
This ensures the correct level of visibility and engagement.
The Group employs a range of risk management strategies, including: avoidance, mitigation, transfer which would also include insurance and acceptance.
Where there is a reliance on third party suppliers to provide services, the Groups Sourcing Policy ensures that outsourcing initiatives follow a defined sourcing process including due diligence and risk evaluation.
Contingency plans are maintained for a range of potential scenarios, with regular disaster recovery and scenario testing scheduled to test and challenge the readiness of the Group to respond in the event ofanincident.
The Group continues to mature its approach to operational resilience by enhancing the resilience of systems that support the Groups critical business processes through the IT Resilience programme, with independent verification of progress on an annual basis.
The Board recognises the role that resilient technology plays in achieving the Groups strategy of becoming the best bank for customers and in maintaining banking services across the wider industry.
As such, the Board dedicates considerable time and focus to this subject at both the Board and the Board Risk Committee, and continues to sponsor key investment programmes that enhance its resilience.
The threat landscape associated with cyber risk continues to evolve and regulatory attention continues.
The Board has defined a Cyber Risk Appetite and is supporting initiatives to protect the Group against malicious cyber-attacks.
The Group continues to invest in enhanced protection of customer information, including limiting access to key systems and enhancing the security, durability and accessibility of critical information.
The Group adopts a risk based approach to mitigate the internal and external fraud risks it faces, reflecting the current and emerging fraud risks within the market.
Fraud Risk Appetite metrics have been defined, holistically covering the impacts of fraud in term of losses to the Group, costs of fraud systems and operations, and customer experience of actual and attempted fraud.
Oversight of the appropriateness and performance of these metrics is undertaken regularly through business area and Group-level committees.
This approach drives a continual programme of prioritised enhancements to the Groups technology, process and people related controls, with an emphasis on preventative controls supported by real time detective controls wherever feasible.
Group-wide policies and operational control frameworks are maintained and designed to provide customer confidence, protect the Groups commercial interests and reputation, comply with legal requirements and meet regulatory expectations.
The Groups fraud awareness programme remains a key component of its fraud control environment, and awareness of fraud risk is supported by mandatory training for all colleagues.
The Group has adopted policies and procedures designed to detect and prevent the use of its banking network for money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and activities prohibited by legal and regulatory sanctions.
The Group regularly reviews and assesses these policies to keep them current, effective and consistent across markets and jurisdictions, against a background of increasingly complex and detailed laws and regulations.
The Group requires mandatory training on these topics for all employees.
Specifically, the anti-money laundering procedures include know-yourcustomer requirements, transaction monitoring technologies and reporting of suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing to the applicable regulatory authorities and the Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits the payment, offer, acceptance or request of a bribe, including facilitation payments by any employee or agent and provides a confidential reporting service for anonymous reporting for suspected or actual bribery activity.
The Sanctions and Related Prohibitions Policy sets out a framework of controls for compliance with legal and regulatory sanctions.
The Group remediates issues that are identified in its customer processes, addressing root cause and rectifying customers as required.
Enhancing the overall servicing environment remains a focus of dedicated Group programmes such as Customer Journey Transformation.
Following the successful divestment of TSB the Group retains responsibility for the ongoing provision of key services which are managed via robust service and change management processes.
There are separate governance arrangements and additional controls in place to ensure contractual commitments are met.
Operational resilience measures and recovery planning defined in the Groups Resilience & Continuity including Incident Management policy ensure an appropriate and consistent approach to the management of continuity risks, including potential interruptions from a range of internal and external incidents or threats including environmental and climatic issues, terrorism, cyber, economic instability, pandemic planning and operationalincidents.
Monitoring Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business area committees, in accordance with delegated limits of authority which are regularly reviewed and refreshed.
Business unit risk exposure is aggregated and discussed at oversight committees, and matters are escalated to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees, if appropriate.
A combination of: regular management information and reporting from business areas, oversight and challenge from Risk Division, Group Audit and other assurance activities ensures that key risks are regularly presented and debated byexecutive management.
The Group maintains a formal approach to operational risk event escalation, whereby material events are identified, captured and escalated.
Root causes of events are determined, where possible and action plans put in place to ensure an optimum level of control to keep customers and the business safe, reduce costs, and improve efficiency.
The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with recommendations being made to the Groups senior management annually prior to each renewal.
Insurers are monitored on an ongoing basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
153 Risk management Risk management continued FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY RISK Definition Funding risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
Exposure Liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential stressed outflows in any future period less expected inflows.
Liquidity is considered from both an internal and a regulatory perspective.
Measurement Liquidity risk is managed through a series of measures, tests and reports that are primarily based on contractual maturity.
Note 52 on page 261 sets out an analysis of assets and liabilities by relevant maturity grouping.
In order to reflect more accurately the expected behaviour of the Groups assets and liabilities, measurement and modelling of the behavioural aspects of each is constructed.
Divisional teams form a view of customer behaviour based on quantitative and qualitative analysis.
Mitigation The Group manages the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through short term liquidity management and over the life of the funding plan, combining business as usual and stressed conditions.
Longer term funding, defined as having an original maturity of more than one year, is used to manage the Groups strategic liquidity profile, determined by the Groups balance sheet structure.
The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant customer deposit base, and is supported by strong relationships with corporate customers and certain wholesale market segments.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although mostly repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
Funding concentration by counterparty and currency is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Where concentrations do exist for example, maturity profile, these are limited by the internal risk appetite and considered manageable.
The ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market or through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for the Groups Banking businesses.
To assist in managing the balance sheet the Group operates a Liquidity Transfer Pricing LTP process which: allocates relevant interest expenses from the centre to the Groups Banking businesses within the internal management accounts in a manner consistent with the Group Funding and Liquidity Policy: helps drive the correct inputs to customer pricing and supports the overall Group balance sheet strategy: and is consistent with regulatory requirements.
LTP makes extensive use of behavioural maturity profiles, taking account of expected customer loan prepayments and stability of customer deposits, modelled on data gathered over several years.
Liquidity risk within the Insurance business may result from: the inability to sell financial assets quickly at their fair values: an insurance liability falling due for payment earlier than expected: the inability to generate cash inflows as anticipated: an unexpected large operational event: or from a general insurance catastrophe e. g. a significant weather event.
Following the implementation of Solvency II, the annuity portfolio is ring-fenced and assets held to match annuity liability cashflows are excluded from shareholder liquidity.
In the event a liquidity shortfall arises on the annuity portfolio, shareholder liquidity will be required to support this.
As a result, the shareholders exposure to liquidity risk is through Insurances non-annuity and surplus assets, any shortfall arising in the annuity portfolio and the investment portfolios within the general insurance business.
Liquidity risk is actively managed and monitored within the Insurance business to ensure that, even under stress conditions, there is sufficient liquidity to meet obligations and remain within approved risk appetite.
Monitoring Liquidity is actively monitored at Group level.
Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address internal and regulatory liquidity requirements.
Liquidity policies and procedures are subject to independent internal oversight by Risk.
The Group carries out stress testing of its liquidity and potential cash flow mismatch position over both short up to one month and longer term up to three months horizons against a range of scenarios.
The scenarios and the assumptions are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance that they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business.
For further information on the Groups 2016 liquidity stress testing results refer to page 157.
The Group funding plan is also stressed against a range of macroeconomic scenarios.
Regulatory metrics are calculated and monitored over the life the plan under base and stress conditions.
The Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which is designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
Contingency Funding Plan invocation and escalation processes are based on analysis of five major quantitative and qualitative components, comprising assessment of: early warning indicators, prudential and regulatory liquidity risk limits and triggers, stress testing results, event and systemic indicators and market intelligence.
Funding and liquidity management in 2016 During 2016 the Group has maintained its strong funding and liquidity position, with a loan to deposit ratio of 108.9 per cent.
Total funded assets reduced by 5.8billion to 465.4billion during 2016.
Loans and advances to customers, excluding reverse repos, reduced by 5.5billion.
Growth in Consumer Finance was strong at 11percent and SME lending growth was 3percent, both outperforming the market.
This was offset by a reduction in mortgage balances as the Group continues to balance risk and margin considerations versus volumes in a competitive low growth market.
Total customer deposits fell by 5.3billion to 413.0billion at 31December 2016, largely due to lower Retail and Consumer Finance tactical balances.
Wholesale funding has decreased by 9.1billion to 110.8billion as excess liquidity is managed down: the amount with a residual maturity less than one year fell to 35.1billion 37.9billion at 31December 2015.
The Groups term funding ratio wholesale funding with a remaining life of over one year as a percentage of total wholesale funding is unchanged at 68percent.
During 2016 the Groups term issuance costs have remained broadly in line with other post-crisis years and significantly lower than levels seen during the economic downturn.
The Groups overall cost of wholesale funding has reduced as more expensive funding raised in previous years mature.
The Groups market capacity for term funding is considered across the planning horizon as part of the funding plan and the Group expects term funding requirements to remain stable.
154 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The credit ratings on Lloyds Bank were unchanged over 2016, and the median credit rating among the three major credit rating agencies remains A.
Following the EU referendum in June, both S&P and Moodys revised their outlooks on Lloyds Bank, among other UK banks, in order to reflect increased macroeconomic uncertainty.
S&P revised the outlook on Lloyds Banks A rating to Negative from Stable whilst Moodys revised the outlook on Lloyds Banks A1 rating to Stable from Positive.
Moodys also revised their outlook on the UK banking system to Negative from Stable.
Fitchs outlook on Lloyds Banks A rating remained Stable as Fitch expect the economic effects of the referendum to be manageable.
The effects of a potential downgrade from all three credit rating agencies are included in Group liquidity stress testing.
The LCR became the Pillar 1 standard for liquidity in the UK in October 2015.
The Group comfortably meets the requirements.
Liquid asset holdings have fallen during the second half of 2016 as excess liquidity held during the EU Referendum is managed down.
The Group continues to monitor the Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR requirements and expects to meet them once confirmed by the PRA.
Table 1.41: Group funding position At31Dec At31Dec 2016 2015 Change bn bn % Funding requirement 1 Loans and advances to customers 449.7 455.2 1 2 Loans and advances to banks 5.1 3.4 50 Debt securities 3.4 4.2 19 Reverse repurchase agreements 0.5 1.0 50 3 Available-for-sale financial assets non-LCR eligible 1.9 2.7 30 4 Cash and balances at central bank non LCR eligible 4.8 4.7 2 Funded assets 465.4 471.2 1 5 Other assets 249.9 234.2 7 715.3 705.4 1 On balance sheet LCR eligible liquidity assets Reverse repurchase agreements 8.7 4 Cash and balances at central banks 42.7 53.7 20 6 Available-for-sale financial assets 54.6 30.3 80 6 Held-to-maturity financial assets 19.8 Trading and fair value through profit and loss 1.8 3.0 40 Repurchase agreements 5.3 5.5 4 102.5 101.3 1 Total Group assets 817.8 806.7 1 5 Less: other liabilities 245.2 221.5 11 Funding requirement 572.6 585.2 2 Funded by 7 Customer deposits 413.0 418.3 1 8 Wholesale funding 110.8 119.9 8 523.8 538.2 3 Repurchase agreements Total equity 48.8 47.0 4 Total funding 572.6 585.2 2 1 Excludes 8.3billion 31 December 2015: nil of reverse repurchase agreements.
2 Excludes 20.9billion 31 December 2015: 20.8billion of loans and advances to banks within the Insurance business and 0.9billion 31 December 2015: 0.9billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
3 Non-LCR eligible liquid assets comprise a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance.
4 Cash and balances at central banks are combined in the Groups balance sheet.
5 Other assets and other liabilities primarily include balances in the Groups Insurance business and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.
6 The Group reclassified gilts held within the liquidity portfolio as available-for-sale previously been classified as held-to-maturity during the third quarter of 2016 as the Group has decided it is no longer appropriate to commit to holding any gilts to maturity.
7 Excludes 2.5 billion 31 December 2015: nil of repurchase agreements.
8 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
155 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.42: Reconciliation of Group funding to the balance sheet audited At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Repos Repos and cash Fair value and cash Fair value Included in collateral and other Included in collateral and other funding received by accounting Balance funding received by accounting Balance analysis Insurance methods sheet analysis Insurance methods sheet bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Deposits from banks 8.1 8.0 0.3 16.4 8.5 8.4 16.9 Debt securities in issue 83.0 6.7 76.3 88.1 6.0 82.1 Subordinated liabilities 19.7 0.1 19.8 23.3 23.3 Total wholesale funding 110.8 8.0 119.9 8.4 Customer deposits 413.0 2.5 415.5 418.3 418.3 Total 523.8 10.5 538.2 8.4 Table 1.43: Analysis of 2016 total wholesale funding by residual maturity Less One to Nine Total at Total at than one three Three to Six to nine months to One to Two to More than 31Dec 31Dec month months six months months one year two years five years five years 2016 2015 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Deposit from banks 6.1 1.0 0.5 0.4 0.1 8.1 8.5 Debt securities in issue: Certificates of deposit 0.4 2.1 3.0 1.7 0.3 7.5 10.6 Commercial paper 2.0 0.8 0.4 3.2 6.6 1 Medium-term notes 1.5 2.7 1.4 0.3 5.1 12.3 13.6 36.9 37.6 Covered bonds 2.1 2.8 1.1 2.2 10.7 10.2 29.1 25.8 Securitisation 0.6 1.0 0.4 0.7 0.8 0.7 1.8 0.3 6.3 7.5 5.1 8.2 7.2 4.2 1.4 8.0 24.8 24.1 83.0 88.1 Subordinated liabilities 0.5 0.1 0.4 2.4 3.7 12.6 19.7 23.3 Total wholesale 2 funding 11.2 9.7 7.8 5.0 1.4 10.5 28.5 36.7 110.8 119.9 Of which issued by Lloyds Banking 3 Group plc 1.7 5.7 7.4 3.4 1 Medium-term notes include funding from the National Loan Guarantee Scheme 31 December 2016: 1.4billion: 31 December 2015: 1.4billion.
2 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
3 Consists of medium-term notes 2.5billion and subordinated liabilities 4.9billion.
Table 1.44: Total wholesale funding by currency audited Other Sterling USDollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2016 30.6 33.0 41.4 5.8 110.8 At 31 December 2015 34.9 37.6 41.3 6.1 119.9 Table 1.45: Analysis of 2016 term issuance audited Other Sterling USDollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn Securitisation 0.3 0.4 0.7 Medium-term notes 1.5 1.2 0.4 3.1 Covered bonds 1.2 2.4 3.6 1 Private placements 0.1 1.0 0.8 1.9 Subordinated liabilities 1.1 1.1 Total issuance 1.6 4.0 4.4 0.4 10.4 2 Of which issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc 3.8 1.2 0.4 5.4 1 Private placements include structured bonds and term repurchase agreements repos.
2 Consists of medium-term notes 2.5billion and subordinated liabilities 3.0billion.
Gross term issuance for 2016 totalled 10.4billion.
The Group maintained a diversified approach to funding markets with trades in public and private format, secured and unsecured products and a wide range of currencies and markets.
In 2016, the Group drew down 1.0billion under the Funding for Lending Scheme FLS, taking peak usage to 33.1billion, with 3.0billion of maturities during the year.
A further 4.5billion was drawn under the Bank of Englands Term Funding Scheme TFS, underlining the Groups support to the UK economy.
The maturities for the FLS and TFS are fully factored into the Groups funding plan.
156 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Liquidity portfolio At 31December 2016, the Banking business had 120.8billion of highly liquid unencumbered LCR eligible assets, of which 120.3billion is LCR level1 eligible and 0.5billion is LCR level 2 eligible.
These assets are available to meet cash and collateral outflows and PRA regulatory requirements.
A separate liquidity portfolio to mitigate any insurance liquidity risk is managed within the Insurance business.
LCR eligible liquid assets represent over8times the Groups money market funding less than one year maturity excluding derivative collateral margins and settlement accounts and exceed total wholesale funding, and thus provides a substantial buffer in the event of continued market dislocation.
2 Designated multilateral development bank MDB.
Table 1.47: LCR eligible assets by currency Other Sterling USDollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2016 Level 1 96.0 12.5 11.8 120.3 Level 2 0.2 0.3 0.5 Total 96.2 12.8 11.8 120.8 At 31 December 2015 Level 1 90.9 15.8 16.2 122.9 Level 2 0.1 - 0.4 0.5 Total 91.0 15.8 16.6 123.4 The Banking business also had 113.8billion of secondary, non-LCR eligible liquidity, the vast majority of which is eligible for use in a range of central bank or similar facilities and the Group routinely makes use of as part of its normal liquidity management practices.
Future use of such facilities will be based on prudent liquidity management and economic considerations, having regard for external market conditions.
The Group considers diversification across geography, currency, markets and tenor when assessing appropriate holdings of liquid assets.
This liquidity is managed as a single pool in the centre and is under the control of the function charged with managing the liquidity of the Group.
It is available for deployment at immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory requirements.
Stress testing results Internal stress testing results at 31December 2016 showed that the Banking business had liquidity resources representing 167.0percent of modelled outflows from all wholesale funding sources, retail and corporate deposits, intraday requirements and rating dependent contracts under the Groups most severe liquidity stress scenario.
A hypothetical idiosyncratic two notch downgrade of the Groups current long-term debt rating and accompanying short-term downgrade implemented instantaneously by all major rating agencies, could result in a contractual outflow of 3.1billion of cash over a period of up to one year, 1.8billion of collateral posting related to customer financial contracts and 9.0billion of collateral posting associated with secured funding.
Encumbered assets This disclosure provides further detail on the availability of assets that could be used to support potential future funding requirements of the Group.
The disclosure is not designed to identify assets that would be available in the event of a resolution or bankruptcy.
The Groups analysis separately identifies those assets held at central banks: assets not held at central banks are classified as either encumbered or unencumbered.
The Board and GALCO monitor and manage total balance sheet encumbrance via a number of risk appetite metrics.
At 31December 2016, the Group had 83.5billion 31December 2015: 77.4billion of externally encumbered on balance sheet assets with counterparties other than central banks.
The increase in encumbered assets was driven by an increase in the use of on balance sheet available-for-sale financial assets for repo activity.
The Group also had 580.9billion 31December 2015: 573.7billion of unencumbered on balance sheet assets, and 153.5billion 31December 2015: 155.6billion of pre-positioned and encumbered assets held with central banks.
Primarily the Group encumbers mortgages, unsecured lending and credit card receivables through the issuance programmes and tradable securities through securities financing activity.
The Group mainly positions mortgage assets at central banks.
157 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.48: On balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets Encumbered with counterparties other PreUnencumbered assets not pre-positioned than central banks positioned with central banks and encumbered assets held with Other Covered central Readily realisable Cannot 1 Securitisations bond Other Total banks realisable assets be used Total Total m m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2016 Cash and balances at central banks 42,998 4,454 47,452 47,452 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4,806 4,806 9,175 22 137,171 146,368 151,174 Derivative financial instruments 36,138 36,138 36,138 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 32 32 528 1,825 24,517 26,870 26,902 Loans and advances to customers 14,542 30,883 7,305 52,730 153,482 7,032 152,997 91,717 251,746 457,958 Debt securities 904 904 2,344 5 144 2,493 3,397 14,542 30,883 8,241 53,666 153,482 9,904 154,827 116,378 281,109 488,257 Available-for-sale financial assets 154 24,824 24,978 31,017 31 498 31,546 56,524 Held-to-maturity investments 2 Other 34 1,737 36,477 38,248 38,248 Total assets 14,696 30,883 37,871 83,450 153,482 93,128 156,617 331,116 580,861 817,793 At 31 December 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 56,323 2,094 58,417 58,417 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 6,922 6,922 7,459 17 126,138 133,614 140,536 Derivative financial instruments 29,467 29,467 29,467 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 37 37 431 910 23,739 25,080 25,117 Loans and advances to customers 13,668 32,641 7,418 53,727 150,086 7,678 159,510 84,174 251,362 455,175 Debt securities 855 855 3,150 62 124 3,336 4,191 13,668 32,641 8,310 54,619 150,086 11,259 160,482 108,037 279,778 484,483 Available-for-sale financial assets 15,810 15,810 5,548 11,048 31 595 11,674 33,032 Held-to-maturity investments 19,808 19,808 19,808 2 Other 10 2,716 38,219 40,945 40,945 Total assets 13,668 32,641 31,042 77,351 155,634 105,907 163,246 304,550 573,703 806,688 1 The following assets are classified as unencumbered cannot be used: assets held within the Groups Insurance businesses which are generally held to either back liabilities to policyholders or to support the solvency of the Insurance subsidiaries: assets held within consolidated limited liability partnerships which provide security for the Groups obligations to its pension schemes: assets pledged to facilitate the use of intra-day payment and settlement systems: and reverse repos and derivatives balance sheet ledger items.
2 Other comprises: items in the course of collection from banks, investment properties, goodwill, value in-force business, other tangible assets, tangible fixed assets, current tax recoverable, deferred tax assets, retirement benefit assets and other assets.
The above table sets out the carrying value of the Groups encumbered and unencumbered assets, separately identifying those that are available to support the Groups funding needs.
The table does not include collateral received by the Group i. e. from reverse repos that is not recognised on its balance sheet, the vast majority of which the Group is permitted to repledge.
158 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CAPITAL RISK Definition Capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has a sub-optimal quantity or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
Exposures A capital risk exposure arises when the Group has insufficient capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
This could arise due to a depletion of the Groups capital resources as a result of the crystallisation of any of the risks to which it is exposed.
Alternatively a shortage of capital could arise from an increase in the amount of capital that is needed to be held.
The Groups capital management approach is focused on maintaining sufficient capital resources to prevent such exposures while optimising value forshareholders.
Measurement The Group measures the amount of capital it holds using the regulatory framework defined by the Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD IV as implemented in the UK by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Full details of the Groups regulatory capital and leverage frameworks will be provided in the Groups Pillar 3 Report.
The minimum amount of total capital, under Pillar 1 of the regulatory framework, is determined as 8 per cent of aggregate risk-weighted assets.
At least 4.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets are required to be covered by common equity tier 1 CET1 capital and at least 6 per cent of risk-weighted assets are required to be covered by tier 1 capital.
These minimum Pillar 1 requirements are supplemented by additional minimum requirements under Pillar 2 of the regulatory framework and a number of regulatory capital buffers as described below.
Additional minimum requirements are set by the PRA by the issuance of bank specific Individual Capital Guidance ICG.
This reflects a point in time estimate by the PRA, which may change over time, of the minimum amount of capital that is needed by the bank.
It includes the assessment of risks that are not fully covered by Pillar 1, such as credit concentration and operational risk, and those risks not covered at all by Pillar 1, such as pensions andinterest rate risk in the banking book IRRBB.
The Group is also required to maintain a number of regulatory capital buffers, which are required to be met with CET1 capital.
Systemic buffers are designed to hold systemically important banks to higher capital standards, so that they can withstand a greater level of stress before requiring resolution.
There are three systemic buffers in the Capital Requirements Directive: The G-SII buffer is applied to global systemically important institutions.
The Group has not been classified as a G-SII.
The O-SII buffer may be applied to other systemically important institutions.
The Group has been classified as an O-SII by the PRA, but the O-SII buffer is set to zero in the UK.
The Systemic Risk Buffer SRB will be applied to ring-fenced banks from 1 January 2019.
In July 2016 the FPC published their methodology for quantifying the buffer for each ring-fenced bank and in December 2016 the PRA published their statement of policy on their approach for implementing the SRB.
The size of buffer applied to the Groups ring-fenced bank RFB sub-group in 2019 will be dependent upon the total assets of the sub-group.
The largest buffer the FPC anticipates applying to any ring-fenced bank is 2.5 per cent.
Although the SRB will apply at a sub consolidated level within the Groups structure, the PRA have indicated that they will include in the PRA Buffer thatapplies to the Group an amount equivalent to the RFBs Systemic Risk Buffer.
The amount included in the PRA Buffer is expected to be lower as a percentage of Group RWAs reflecting the assets of the Group that will not be held in the RFB sub-group and for which the SRB will not apply to.
The capital conservation buffer CCB is a standard buffer of 2.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets designed to provide for losses in the event of stress and is being phased in over the period from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2019.
During 2016 it was 0.625 per cent and during 2017 it is 1.25 per cent.
The countercyclical capital buffer CCYB is time-varying and is designed to require banks to hold additional capital to remove or reduce the build-up of systemic risk in times of credit boom, providing additional loss absorbing capacity and acting as an incentive for banks to constrain further credit growth.
The amount of the buffer is determined by reference to buffer rates set by the FPC for the individual countries where the Group has relevant credit risk exposures.
The buffer is currently set at zero for the UK, however non-zero rates for Norway, Sweden and Hong Kong were in place at 31December 2016.
Given that the Group has minimal exposures to these jurisdictions, the overall requirement is negligible.
The UK CCYB rate was set to increase from 0 per cent to 0.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets on 29 March 2017, at which time the overlapping aspects of Pillar 2 supervisory capital buffers would be removed or reduced.
However, following the EU referendum, on 5 July 2016 the FPC announced in their Financial Stability Report that the planned 0.5 per cent UK CCYB would not be implemented in March 2017 and the zero per cent rate was expected to remain until at least June 2017.
The FPC also recommended that where existing Pillar 2 supervisory buffers reflect risks that would be captured by a UK CCYB rate, the PRA should reduce those buffers by an amount of capital which is equivalent to the effect of a UK CCYB rate of 0.5 per cent.
The FPC has also indicated that it expects to review the UK CCYB and to set a rate in the region of 1 per cent of risk-weighted assets when risks are judged to be neither subdued nor elevated, but the rate can be set in excess of this level.
Any increase in CCYB would take effect 1 year after it is set.
The FPC can also set sectoral capital requirements which are temporary increases to banks capital requirements on exposures to specific sectors, if the FPC judges that exuberant lending to those sectors poses risks to financial stability.
No sectoral capital requirements currently apply to the Group.
As part of the capital planning process, forecast capital positions are subjected to extensive stress analyses to determine the adequacy of the Groups capital resources against the minimum requirements, including ICG.
The PRA uses the outputs from some of these stress analyses as one of the inputs that inform the setting of a bank-specific capital buffer for the Group, known as the PRA Buffer.
The PRA Buffer also takes into account the CCB, CCYB and any sectoral capital requirements that already apply to the Group.
The PRA requires the PRA Buffer to remain confidential between the Group and the PRA.
All buffers are required to be met with CET1 capital.
A breach of the PRA buffer would trigger a dialogue between the Group and the PRA to agree what action is required whereas a breach of the CRD IV combined buffer all regulatory buffers excluding the PRA buffer would give rise to automatic constraints upon any discretionary capital distributions by the Group.
In addition to the risk-based capital framework outlined above, the Group is also subject to minimum capital requirements under the UKs Leverage Ratio Framework.
The leverage ratio is calculated by dividing fully loaded tier 1 capital resources by a defined measure of on balance sheet assets andoffbalance sheet items.
159 Risk management Risk management continued The minimum leverage ratio in the UK is 3 per cent, in line with current Basel requirements.
In addition the UK framework requires two buffers to be maintained: an Additional Leverage Ratio Buffer ALRB, which is calculated as 35 per cent of the Systemic Risk Buffer applicable from 2019 and a time-varying Countercyclical Leverage Buffer CCLB which is calculated as 35 per cent of the countercyclical capital buffer rate currently set at 0percent.
Atleast 75 per cent of the minimum 3 per cent requirement and the entirety of any buffers that may apply must be met by CET1 capital.
The leverage ratio framework does not currently give rise to higher capital requirements for the Group than the risk-based capital framework.
Mitigation The Group has a capital management framework including policies and procedures that are designed to ensure that it operates within its risk appetite, uses its capital resources efficiently and continues to comply with regulatory requirements.
The Group is able to accumulate additional capital through the retention of profits over time, which can be enhanced through cutting costs and reducing or cancelling dividend payments, by raising new equity via, for example, a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital through issuing tier 1 instruments or subordinated liabilities.
The cost and availability of additional capital is dependent upon market conditions and perceptions at the time.
The Group is also able to manage the demand for capital through management actions including adjusting its lending strategy, risk hedging strategies and through business disposals.
Additional measures to manage the Groups capital position include seeking to optimise the generation of capital demand within the Groups businesses to strike an appropriate balance of capital held within the Groups Insurance and banking subsidiaries and through improving the quality of its capital through liability management exercises.
Monitoring Capital is actively managed and regulatory ratios are a key factor in the Groups planning processes and stress analyses.
Multi-year forecasts of the Groups capital position, based upon the Groups operating plan, are produced at least annually to inform the Groups capital strategy whilst shorter term forecasts are more frequently undertaken to understand and respond to variations of the Groups actual performance against the plan.
The capital plans are tested for capital adequacy using a range of stress scenarios covering adverse economic conditions as well as other adverse factors that could impact the Group and the Group maintains a Recovery Plan which sets out a range of potential mitigating actions that could be taken in response to a stress.
Regular reporting of actual and projected ratios, including those in stressed scenarios, is undertaken, including submissions to the Group Capital Risk Committee GCRC, Group Financial Risk Committee GFRC, Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO, Group Risk Committee GRC, Board Risk Committee BRC and the Board.
Capital policies and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
The regulatory framework within which the Group operates continues to evolve and further detail on this will be provided in the Groups Pillar 3 report.
The Group continues to monitor these developments very closely, analysing the potential capital impacts to ensure that, through organic capital generation, the Group continues to maintain a strong capital position that exceeds the minimum regulatory requirements and the Groups risk appetite and is consistent with market expectations.
Target capital ratios The Boards view of the current level of CET1 capital required to grow the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties and future regulatory developments remains at around 13 per cent.
This takes into account, amongst other things: the Pillar 2A Individual Capital Guidance ICG set by the PRA, reflecting their point in time estimate, which may change over time, of the amount of capital that is needed in relation to risks not covered by Pillar 1.
During the year the PRA updated the Groups ICG representing a reduction from 4.6per cent to 4.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets at 31 December 2016, of which 2.5 per cent has to be covered by CET1 capital.
the PRA Buffer, which they set taking into account the results of the PRA stress tests and other information, as well as outputs from our internal stress tests and other information.
In November 2016 the PRA published the results of its 2016 stress tests which showed the Groups capital depletion to be 2.5percent after management actions compared to 3.3percent in the 2015 PRA stress tests and 4.8percent in the 2014 PRA stress tests.
The PRA requires the PRA buffer to remain confidential between the Group and the PRA.
future regulatory developments, including the introduction of the Systemic Risk Buffer in 2019.
In addition, the Group targets a transitional total capital ratio of around 20 per cent.
Dividend policy The Group has established a dividend policy that is both progressive and sustainable.
We expect ordinary dividends to increase over the medium term to a dividend payout ratio of at least 50percent of sustainable earnings.
The Board interprets progressive to indicate a dividend per share that is expected to increase over the medium term.
Sustainable earnings represents the long term earnings generation of the business.
Sustainable earnings are defined as earnings after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted to remove the effects of market volatility, exceptional conduct or litigation events, major liability management or restructuring and other one off items such as the sale of businesses, and exceptional underlying business performance.
The Board also gives due consideration to the distribution of surplus capital through the use of special dividends or share buy-backs.
Surplus capital represents capital over and above the amount management wish to retain to grow the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties.
The amount of required capital may vary from time to time depending on circumstances and the Board will continue to give due consideration, subject to the situation at the time, to the distribution of any surplus capital.
By its nature, there can be no guarantee that this level of special dividends or any surplus capital distribution will be appropriate in future years.
The ability of the Group to pay a dividend is also subject to constraints including the availability of distributable reserves, legal and regulatory restrictions and the financial and operating performance of the entity.
Distributable reserves are determined as required by the Companies Act 2006 by reference to a companys individual financial statements.
At 31December 2016 Lloyds Banking Group plc the Company had accumulated distributable reserves of approximately 8,500million.
Substantially all of the Companys merger reserve is available for distribution under UK company law as a result of transactions undertaken to recapitalise the Company in 2009.
160 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Lloyds Banking Group plc acts as a holding company which also issues capital and other securities to capitalise and fund the activities of the Group.
The profitability of the holding company, and consequently its ability to sustain dividend payments, is therefore dependent upon the continued receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries representing both banking and insurance.
A number of Group subsidiaries, principally those with banking and insurance activities, are also subject to regulatory capital requirements.
These require entities to maintain minimum amounts of capital related to their size and risk.
The principal operating subsidiary is Lloyds Bank plc which, at 31December 2016, had a consolidated CET1 capital ratio of 15.2percent 31December 2015: 15.2percent.
The Group actively manages the capital of its subsidiaries, which includes monitoring the regulatory capital ratios for its banking and insurance subsidiaries against approved risk appetite limits.
It operates a formal capital management policy which requires all subsidiary entities to remit any surplus capital to their parent companies.
During 2016 the Group has continued to simplify the Groups internal capital structure and to ensure that profits generated by subsidiary entities can be more easily remitted to the Company.
This included the court approved capital reduction by Lloyds Bank plc.
Analysis of capital position During 2016 the Group continued to strengthen its capital position with a fully loaded CET1 ratio, after accruing for foreseeable dividends, of 13.6 per cent and 13.8 per cent on a pro forma basis upon recognition of the dividend paid by the Insurance business in February 2017 in relation to its 2016 earnings 31 December 2015: 13.0 per cent pro forma.
The accrual for foreseeable dividends includes both the recommended full year ordinary dividend of 2.55 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend of 0.5 pence per ordinary share.
The CET1 ratio on a pro forma basis reflects the prudent retention of circa 0.8 per cent of capital, above the current target level, to cover the estimated capital impact of the MBNA acquisition that was announced in December 2016.
Over the year the Group generated around 1.9 per cent of CET1 capital on a pro forma basis, pre dividend, primarily as a result of the following: Strong underlying capital generation of 2.2 per cent, largely driven by underlying profits: The dividend paid by the Insurance business in February 2017 in relation to its 2016 earnings of 0.2 per cent: Impact of conduct charges of 1.0 per cent: Impact of market movements, netting to 0.2 per cent.
This included 0.8 per cent from the impact of the accounting reclassification of c. 20 billion of gilts within the liquidity portfolio from held-to-maturity to available-for-sale, offset by a number of market related movements, including an adverse impact of movements in the defined benefit pension schemes of 0.4 per cent: Other items largely representing a reduction in risk-weighted assets, most notably in the fourth quarter, largely relating to active portfolio management, disposals, an improvement in credit quality and capital efficient securitisation activity, partially offset by model updates related to UK mortgage portfolios and the impact of the redemption of the remaining series of Enhanced Capital Notes in the first quarter.
After accruing for foreseeable dividends, the transitional total capital ratio reduced by 0.1 percentage points to 21.4 per cent, primarily reflecting managed reductions in tier 2 capital, largely due to calls and redemptions, offset by the increase in CET1 capital and the reduction .
In 2020 the Group will have to meet a Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL.
During 2016 the Group commenced issuance of senior unsecured securities from Lloyds Banking Group plc, which, while not included in total capital, are eligible to meet MREL, 2.5billion Sterling equivalent was issued in 2016 and a further 2.2 billion Sterling equivalent was issued in January 2017 leaving the Group well positioned to meet MREL requirements from 2020.
The leverage ratio, after accruing for foreseeable dividends, increased from 4.8 per cent to 4.9 per cent 5.0 per cent on a pro forma basis, largely reflecting the increase in tier 1 capital.
An analysis of the Groups capital position as at 31 December 2016 is presented in the following section applying CRD IV transitional arrangements and also on a fully loaded CRD IV basis, both as implemented in the UK by the PRA.
161 Risk management Risk management continued The table below summarises the consolidated capital position of the Group.
The Groups Pillar 3 Report will provide a comprehensive analysis of the own funds of the Group.
Table 1.49: Capital resources audited Transitional Fullyloaded At31Dec At31Dec At31Dec At31Dec 1 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Capital resources Common equity tier 1 Shareholders equity per balance sheet 43,020 41,234 43,020 41,234 Adjustment to retained earnings for foreseeable dividends 1,568 1,427 1,568 1,427 1 Deconsolidation adjustments 1,342 1,119 1,342 1,119 Adjustment for own credit 87 67 87 67 Cash flow hedging reserve 2,136 727 2,136 727 1 Other adjustments 276 97 276 97 40,469 40,169 40,469 40,169 less: deductions from common equity tier 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,623 1,719 1,623 1,719 Prudent valuation adjustment 630 372 630 372 Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments 602 270 602 270 Removal of defined benefit pension surplus 267 721 267 721 Securitisation deductions 217 169 217 169 1 Significant investments 4,282 4,500 4,282 4,529 Deferred tax assets 3,564 3,874 3,564 3,884 Common equity tier 1 capital 29,284 28,544 29,284 28,505 Additional tier 1 Other equity instruments 5,320 5,355 5,320 5,355 2 Preference shares and preferred securities 4,998 4,728 Transitional limit and other adjustments 1,692 906 8,626 9,177 5,320 5,355 less: deductions from tier 1 1 Significant investments 1,329 1,177 Total tier 1 capital 36,581 36,544 34,604 33,860 Tier 2 2 Other subordinated liabilities 14,833 18,584 14,833 18,584 1 Deconsolidation of instruments issued by insurance entities 1,810 1,665 1,810 1,665 Adjustments for transitional limit and non-eligible instruments 1,351 52 1,694 3,066 Amortisation and other adjustments 3,447 3,880 3,597 4,885 10,927 12,987 7,732 8,968 Eligible provisions 186 221 186 221 less: deductions from tier 2 1 Significant investments 1,571 1,756 2,900 2,933 Total capital resources 46,123 47,996 39,622 40,116 Risk-weighted assets 215,534 222,845 215,534 222,747 3 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 13.6% 12.8% 13.6% 12.8% Tier 1 capital ratio 17.0% 16.4% 16.1% 15.2% Total capital ratio 21.4% 21.5% 18.4% 18.0% 1 For regulatory capital purposes, the Groups Insurance business is deconsolidated and replaced by the amount of the Groups investment in the business.
A part of this amount is deducted from capital shown as significant investments in the table above and the remaining amount is risk-weighted, forming part of threshold risk-weighted assets.
The presentation of the deconsolidation of the Groups insurance entities has been amended for 2016 with comparative figures restated accordingly.
2 Preference shares, preferred securities and other subordinated liabilities are categorised as subordinated liabilities in the balance sheet.
3 The common equity tier 1 ratio is 13.8 per cent on a pro forma basis upon recognition of the dividend paid by the Insurance business in February 2017 in relation to its 2016 earnings 31December 2015: 13.0 per cent pro forma.
162 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The key differences between the transitional capital calculation as at 31December 2016 and the fully loaded equivalent are as follows: Capital securities that previously qualified as tier 1 or tier 2 capital, but do not fully qualify under CRD IV, can be included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital as applicable up to specified limits which reduce by 10percent per annum until 2022.
The significant investment deduction from additional tier 1 AT1 will gradually transition to tier 2.
The movements in the transitional CET1, AT1, tier 2 and total capital positions in the period are provided below.
Table 1.50: Movements in capital resources Common Additional Total EquityTier1 Tier 1 Tier 2 capital m m m m At 31 December 2015 28,544 8,000 11,452 47,996 1 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,070 2,070 2 Movement in foreseeable dividends 141 141 Dividends paid out on ordinary shares during the year 2,014 2,014 1 Dividends in respect of 2015 earnings received from the insurance business 500 500 Movement in treasury shares and employee share schemes 134 134 Pension movements: Removal of defined benefit pension surplus 454 454 Movement through other comprehensive income 954 954 Available-for-sale reserve 1,197 1,197 Prudent valuation adjustment 258 258 Deferred tax asset 310 310 Goodwill and other intangible assets 96 96 Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments 332 332 Significant investments 218 152 185 251 Eligible provisions 35 35 Movements in subordinated debt: Repurchases, redemptions and other 551 3,211 3,762 Issuances 1,151 1,151 Other movements 540 540 At 31 December 2016 29,284 7,297 9,542 46,123 1 Under the regulatory framework, profits made by Insurance are removed from CET1 capital.
However, when dividends are paid to the Group by Insurance these are recognised through CET1capital.
2 Includes the accrual for the 2016 full year ordinary and special dividends and the reversal of the accrual for the 2015 full year ordinary and special dividends which were paid during the year.
CET1 capital resources have increased by 740 million in the year largely as a result of profit generation in the year, dividends received from the Insurance business and the favourable movement in the available-for-sale reserve following the accounting reclassification of gilts within the liquidity portfolio from held-to-maturity.
These movements in CET 1 capital were partially offset by dividends paid out during the year, movements in the defined benefit pension schemes largely driven by the impact of credit spreads, an increase in the excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments primarily as a result of the implementation of recently published EBA guidance restricting prudent valuation adjustments eligible for offset against expected losses, and the accrual of the full year ordinary and special dividends, representing returns to ordinaryshareholders following strong capital generation.
AT1 capital resources have reduced by 703million in the year, primarily reflecting the annual reduction in the transitional limit applied to grandfathered AT1 capital instruments and an increase in the significant investments deduction.
Tier 2 capital resources have reduced by 1,910 million in the year largely reflecting calls and redemptions, including the redemption of all remaining series of Enhanced Capital Notes ECNs under the Regulatory Call Right, and the amortisation of dated tier 2 instruments, partly offset by the issuance of a new dated tier 2 instrument, foreign exchange movements on subordinated debt, the transitioning of grandfathered AT1 instruments to tier 2 and a reduction inthe significant investments deduction.
The redemption of the remaining series of ECNs followed the decision of the Court of Appeal in December 2015 that a Capital Disqualification Event CDE in relation to the ECNs had occurred.
The Group subsequently exercised its option to redeem them in the first quarter of 2016.
In June 2016 the Supreme Court confirmed the decision of the Court of Appeal.
163 Risk management Risk management continued Table 1.51: Risk-weighted assets At31Dec At31Dec 2016 2015 m m Foundation Internal Ratings Based IRB Approach 64,907 68,990 Retail IRB Approach 64,970 63,912 Other IRB Approach 17,788 18,661 IRB Approach 147,665 151,563 Standardised STA Approach 18,956 20,443 Credit risk 166,621 172,006 Counterparty credit risk 8,419 7,981 Contributions to the default fund of a central counterparty 340 488 Credit valuation adjustment risk 864 1,684 Operational risk 25,292 26,123 Market risk 3,147 3,775 Underlying risk-weighted assets 204,683 212,057 1 Threshold risk-weighted assets 10,851 10,788 Total risk-weighted assets 215,534 222,845 2 Movement to fully loaded risk-weighted assets 98 Fully loaded risk-weighted assets 215,534 222,747 1 Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of the significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of deducted from CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from the investment in the Groups Insurance business.
2 Differences may arise between transitional and fully loaded threshold risk-weighted assets where deferred tax assets reliant on future profitability and arising from temporary timing differences and significant investments exceed the fully loaded threshold limit, resulting in an increase in amounts deducted from CET1 capital rather than being risk-weighted.
Table 1.52: Risk-weighted assets movement by key driver Credit risk Credit risk Counterparty Operational 1 2 IRB STA Credit risk Credit risk Market risk risk Total m m m m m m m Fully loaded risk-weighted assets as at 31 December 2015 222,747 3 Less total threshold risk-weighted assets 10,690 Risk-weighted assets at 31 December 2015 151,563 20,443 172,006 10,153 3,775 26,123 212,057 Asset size 4,453 440 4,893 1,542 139 6,574 Acquisitions and disposals 3,406 435 3,841 183 4,024 Model updates 4,363 4,363 99 951 3,511 Methodology and policy 1,215 1,184 2,399 2,399 Asset quality 2,989 75 3,064 729 200 2,535 Movements in risk levels Market risk only 662 662 Foreign exchange 3,802 647 4,449 367 4,816 Other 831 831 Risk-weighted assets as at 31 December 2016 147,665 18,956 166,621 9,623 3,147 25,292 204,683 3 Threshold risk-weighted assets 10,851 Total risk-weighted assets as at 31December 2016 215,534 1 Credit risk includes securitisation risk-weighted assets.
2 Counterparty credit risk includes movements in contributions to the default fund of central counterparties and movements in credit valuation adjustment risk.
3 Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of being deducted from CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from investment in the Groups Insurance business.
The risk-weighted assets movement tables provide analyses of the reduction in risk-weighted assets in the period by risk type and an insight into the key drivers of the movements.
The key driver analysis is compiled on a monthly basis through the identification and categorisation of risk-weighted asset movements and is subject to management judgment.
Credit risk-weighted assets reductions of 5.4billion were driven by the following key movements: Asset size movements.
Credit risk-weighted assets decreased by 4.9 billion, primarily due to active portfolio management, partially offset by continued growth in targeted customer segments.
Disposals of the Groups interest in strategic equity investments and other targeted disposals reduced credit risk-weighted assets by 3.8 billion Model update increases of 4.4 billion were mainly related to the Mainstream and Buy-to-let UK mortgage portfolios Methodology and policy reductions of 2.4 billion are principally due to securitisation activity 164 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Asset quality movements capture movements due to changes in borrower risk, including changes in the economic environment.
Net reductions in credit risk-weighted assets of 3.1 billion primarily relate to model calibrations and a net change in credit quality, reflecting improvements in the economic climate, partly offset by increases in the valuation of centrally held strategic equity investments Foreign exchange movements reflect the depreciation of Sterling which has contributed to a 4.4 billion increase in credit risk-weighted assets.
Counterparty credit risk assets decreased by 0.5 billion mainly driven by increased capital relief from CVA related hedges partially offset by increased trading activity, foreign exchange and yield curve movements.
Market risk-weighted assets reduced by 0.6 billion due to a reduction in the Value-at-Risk multiplier, improvements to the VaR model and active portfolio management.
Operational risk-weighted assets reduced by 0.8 billion due to the annual update of the income based TSA operational risk calculation.
Stress testing The Group undertakes a wide ranging programme of stress testing providing a comprehensive view of the potential impacts arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed.
One of the most important uses of stress testing is to assess the resilience of the operational and strategic plans of the Group to adverse economic conditions and other key vulnerabilities.
As part of that the Group participates in the UK-wide concurrent stress test run by the Bank of England.
During 2016, the Group was subject to the European Banking Authoritys Europe-wide stress test with the Groups results significantly above our minimum capital requirements.
The concurrent UK stress test run by the Bank of England was also undertaken in 2016.
As announced in November, the Group comfortably exceeded the capital thresholds set by the PRA and was not required to take any action as a result of this test.
Leverage ratio The table on the next page summarises the component parts of the Groups leverage ratio.
Further analysis will be provided in the Groups Pillar 3 Report.
Table 1.53: Leverage ratio Fullyloaded At31Dec At31Dec 2016 2015 m m Total tier 1 capital for leverage ratio Common equity tier 1 capital 29,284 28,505 Additional tier 1 capital 5,320 5,355 Total tier 1 capital 34,604 33,860 Exposure measure Statutory balance sheet assets Derivative financial instruments 36,138 29,467 Securities financing transactions SFTs 42,285 34,136 Loans and advances and other assets 739,370 743,085 Total assets 817,793 806,688 1 Deconsolidation adjustments Derivative financial instruments 2,403 1,510 Securities financing transactions SFTs 112 441 Loans and advances and other assets 142,955 133,975 Total deconsolidation adjustments 145,246 135,926 Derivatives adjustments Adjustments for regulatory netting 20,490 16,419 Adjustments for cash collateral 8,432 6,464 Net written credit protection 699 682 Regulatory potential future exposure 13,188 12,966 Total derivatives adjustments 15,035 9,235 SFT adjustments 39 3,361 Off-balance sheet items 58,685 56,424 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 9,128 9,112 Total exposure 707,108 712,200 2 Leverage ratio 4.9% 4.8% 3 Average leverage ratio 4.9% 4 Average leverage ratio exposure measure 718,926 1 Deconsolidation adjustments predominantly reflect the deconsolidation of assets related to Group subsidiaries that fall outside the scope of the Groups regulatory capital consolidation primarily the Groups Insurance entities.
2 The countercyclical leverage ratio buffer is currently nil.
3 The average leverage ratio is based on the average of the month end tier 1 capital and exposure measures over the quarter 30 September 2016 to 31 December 2016.
The average of 4.9percent compares to 4.8 per cent at the start and 4.9 per cent at the end of the quarter.
4 The average leverage ratio exposure measure is based on the average of the month end exposure measures over the quarter 30 September 2016 to 31 December 2016.
165 Risk management Risk management continued Key movements The Groups fully loaded leverage ratio increased by 0.1percent to 4.9percent reflecting the impact of both the increase in tier 1 capital and the 5.1billion reduction in the exposure measure, the latter largely reflecting the reduction in liquid asset holdings.
The derivatives exposure measure, representing derivative financial instruments per the balance sheet net of deconsolidation and derivatives adjustments, reduced marginally with market movements and trading activity broadly offset through netting and cash collateral inflows.
The increase in SFT assets over the period, reflecting increased customer volumes, was offset by the reduction in SFT adjustments reflecting both the recognition of additional eligible netting adjustments and a reduction in the counterparty credit risk add-on.
Off-balance sheet items increased by 2.3 billion, primarily reflecting a change in the profile and subsequent classification of commercial off-balance sheet items and a net increase in securitisation financing facilities, partially offset by a planned drawdown on certain liquidity facilities supporting the Groups conduit programme to provide funding alongside the proceeds of the ABCP issurance.
The average leverage ratio of 4.9 per cent over the quarter reflected a strengthening tier 1 capital position prior to the accrual for the announced full year special dividend and the reduction in balance sheet assets during the quarter, largely reflecting the reduction in liquid asset holdings.
Modified UK leverage ratio The Groups leverage ratio on a modified basis, excluding qualifying central bank claims from the leverage exposure measure, is 5.2 per cent.
Thisfollows the rule modification applied to the UK Leverage Ratio Framework by the PRA in August 2016 as a result of recommendations made bythe Financial Policy Committee.
The Financial Policy Committee has indicated that it intends to recalibrate the UK framework in 2017 in order to adjust for the impact of the rule modification, thereby ensuring that levels of capital currently required to meet leverage ratio minimums are maintained.
The modified UK leverage ratio should therefore be considered in the context of the proposed recalibration.
G-SIB indicators Although the Group is not currently classified as a Global Systemically Important Bank G-SIB, by virtue of the Groups leverage exposure measure exceeding 200billion the Group is required to report G-SIB indicator metrics to the PRA.
The Groups indicator metrics used within the 2016 Basel G-SIBs annual exercise will be disclosed from April 2017, and the results are expected to be made available by the Basel Committee later this year.
Insurance businesses The business transacted by the insurance companies within the Group comprises both life insurance business and general insurance business.
Life insurance business comprises unit-linked business, non-profit business and with-profits business.
Scottish Widows Limited SW Ltd holds the only with-profit funds managed by the Group.
Each insurance company within the Group is regulated by the PRA.
The Solvency II regime for insurers and insurance groups came into force from 1 January 2016.
The insurance businesses are required to calculate solvency capital requirements and available capital on a risk-based approach.
The insurance business of the Group calculates regulatory capital onthe basis of an internal model, which was approved by the PRA on 5 December 2015.
The minimum required capital must be maintained at all times throughout the year.
These capital requirements and the capital available to meet them are regularly estimated in order to ensure that capital maintenance requirements are being met.
All minimum regulatory requirements of the insurance companies have been met during the year.
REGULATORY AND LEGAL RISK Definition Regulatory and legal risk is defined as the risk that the Group is exposed to fines, censure, or legal or enforcement action: or to civil or criminal proceedings in the courts or equivalent and or the Group is unable to enforce its rights due to failing to comply with applicable laws including Codes of Practice which could have legal implications, regulations, codes of conduct or legal obligations.
Exposures Whilst the Group has a zero risk appetite for material regulatory breaches or material legal incidents, the Group remains exposed to material regulatory breaches and material legal incidents outside of its risk appetite.
Exposure is driven by significant ongoing and new legislation, regulation and court proceedings in the UK and overseas which in each case needs to be interpreted, implemented and embedded into day-to-day operational and business practices across the Group.
Measurement Regulatory and legal risks are measured against a set of risk appetite metrics, with appropriate thresholds, which are approved annually by the Board and which are regularly reviewed and monitored.
Metrics include assessments of control and material regulatory rule breaches.
Mitigation We have taken a number of steps and have outlined below the following key components: The Board establishes a Group-wide risk appetite and metrics for Regulatory and Legal Risk: Group policies and procedures set out the principles and key controls that should apply across the business which are aligned to the group risk appetite.
Mandated policies and processes require appropriate control frameworks, management information, standards and colleague training to be implemented to identify and manage regulatory and legal risk: Business units assess and implement policy and regulatory requirements and establish local control, processes and procedures to ensure governance and compliance: Material risks and issues are escalated to divisional and then Group-level bodies which challenge and support the business on its management of them: 166 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business units regularly produce management information to assist in the identification of issues and test management controls are working effectively: Risk Division and Legal provide oversight and proactive support and constructive challenge to the business in identifying and managing regulatory and legal issues: Risk Division will conduct thematic reviews of regulatory compliance across businesses and divisions where appropriate: Business units with the support of divisional and Group-Level bodies conduct ongoing horizon scanning to identify and address changes in regulatory and legal requirements.
Monitoring Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk Division where it is aggregated at Group level and a report prepared.
The report forms the basis of challenge to the business at the monthly Group Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk Committee.
This committee may escalate matters to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees.
The report also forms the basis of the regulatory and legal sections in the Groups consolidated risk reporting.
State aid commitments In 2015 we satisfied all material structural and behavioural commitments following the successful carve-out and disposal of TSB with respect to the State Aid commitments agreed with the European Commission under the State Aid regime in 2009.
We are therefore no longer subject to restrictive behavioural commitments including the constraint on acquisitions, but continue to be bound by two remaining limited ancillary commitments which means that we remain subject to supervision by the European Commission with respect to these commitments until they cease to have effect on or before June 2017.
INSURANCE RISK Definition Insurance risk is defined as the risk of adverse developments in the timing, frequency and severity of claims for insured underwritten events and in customer behaviour, leading to reductions in earnings and or value.
Exposures The major sources of insurance risk within the Group are the Insurance business and the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
Longevity and persistency are key risks within the life and pensions business.
Longevity risk arises from the annuity portfolios where policyholders future cashflows are guaranteed at retirement and increases in life expectancy, beyond current assumptions, will increase the cost of annuities.
Longevity risk exposures are expected to increase with the Insurance business growth in the bulk annuity market.
Persistency assumptions are setto give a best estimate however, customer behaviour may result in increased cancellations or cessation of contributions.
Property insurance risk is a key risk within the general insurance business, through Home Insurance, and exposures can arise, for example, in extreme weather conditions, such as flooding, when property damage claims are higher than expected.
The prime insurance risk of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is longevity.
Measurement Insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress, reverse stress and scenario testing, as well as stochastic modelling.
Current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and aggregated on a range of stresses including risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses for Insurances regulatory capital assessments and other supporting measures where appropriate, including those set out in note 33 to the financial statements.
For measuring the longevity risk in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes both 1-in-20 year stresses risk appetite and 1-in- 200 year stresses regulatory capital are utilised.
For further information on defined benefit schemes please refer to note 36 to the financial statements.
Mitigation Insurance risk in the Insurance business is mitigated in a number of ways: General insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements broadly spread over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Insurance processes on underwriting, claims management, pricing and product design.
Longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are considered on a regular basis.
A team of longevity and bulk pricing experts has been built to support the new bulk annuity proposition.
Exposure limits by risk type are assessed through the business planning process and used as a control mechanism to ensure risks are taken within risk appetite.
The most significant insurance risk in the defined benefit pension schemes is longevity risk.
The merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are regularly reviewed.
Monitoring Insurance risks in the Insurance business are monitored by Insurance senior executive Committees and ultimately the Insurance Board.
Governance of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes includes two specialist pension committees.
Significant risks from the Insurance business and the defined benefit pension schemes are reviewed by the Group Executive and Group Risk Committees and or Board.
Insurance risk exposures within the Insurance business are monitored against risk appetite.
The Insurance business monitors experiences against expectations, for example business volumes and mix, claims and persistency experience.
The effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk is evaluated and significant divergences from experience or movements in risk exposures are investigated and remedial action taken.
Progress against risk appetite metrics in respect of longevity risk in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is regularly reported and reviewed by the relevant committees.
167 Risk management Risk management continued PEOPLE RISK Definition People risk is defined as the risk that the Group fails to lead, manage and enable colleagues to deliver the Groups strategy for customers, shareholders and regulators.
Exposures The Groups management of material people risks is critical to its capacity to deliver against its strategic objectives and to be the best bank for customers.
Over the coming year the Group anticipates the following key people risk exposures: Maintaining organisational skills, capability, resilience and capacity levels in response to increasing volumes of organisational, political and external market change: Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR and additional regulatory constraints on remuneration structures may impact the Groups ability to attract and retain talent: The increasing digitisation of the business is changing the capability mix required and may impact our ability to attract and retain talent: and Colleague engagement may continue to be challenged by ongoing media attention on banking sector culture, sales practices and ethical conduct.
Measurement People risk is measured through a series of quantitative and qualitative indicators, aligned to key sources of people risk for the Group such as succession, retention, colleague engagement and performance management.
In addition to risk appetite measures and limits, people risks and controls are monitored on a monthly basis via the Groups risk governance framework and reporting structures.
Mitigation The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to people risk.
Key areas of focus include: Focusing on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre people together with implementation of rigorous succession planning: Continued focus on the Groups culture by developing and delivering initiatives that reinforce the appropriate behaviours which generate the best possible long-term outcomes for customers and colleagues: Managing organisational capability and capacity through divisional people strategies to ensure there are the right skills and resources to meet our customers needs and deliver our strategic plan: Maintain effective remuneration arrangements to ensure they promote an appropriate culture and colleague behaviours that meet customer needs and regulatory expectations: Ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to SM&CR, embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in line with Group policies, values and its people risk priorities: and Ongoing consultation with the Groups recognised unions on changes which impact their members.
Monitoring People risks from across the Group are monitored and reported through Board and Group Governance Committees in accordance with the Groups Risk Management Framework and People Risk sub-framework.
Risk exposures are discussed monthly via the Group People Risk Committee with upwards reporting to Group Risk and Executive Committees.
In addition oversight, challenge and reporting is completed at Risk Division level and combined with Risk Assurance reviews, assesses the effectiveness of controls, recommending follow up remedial action if relevant.
All material People Risk events are escalated in accordance with the formal Group Operational Risk Policy and People Policies to the respective Divisional Managing Directors and the Group Director, Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk.
FINANCIAL REPORTING RISK Definition Financial reporting risk is defined as the risk that the Group suffers reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting policies, ineffective controls over business or finance processes impacting financial, prudential regulatory, and tax reporting, failure to manage the associated risks of changes in taxation rates, law, corporate ownership or structure and the failure to disclose timely and appropriate information in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Exposures Exposure represents the sufficiency of the Groups policies and procedures to maintain adequate systems, processes and controls to support statutory, prudential regulatory and tax reporting, to prevent and detect financial reporting fraud, to manage the Groups tax position and to support .
Measurement Financial reporting risk is measured by the adequacy of, and compliance with, a number of key controls.
Identification of potential financial reporting risk also forms a part of the Groups Operational Risk management framework.
168 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Mitigation The Group maintains a system of internal controls, which is designed to: ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions are recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities, that assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded: enable the calculation, preparation and reporting of financial, prudential regulatory and tax outcomes in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards, statutory and regulatory requirements: and ensure that disclosures are made on a timely basis in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements and as far as possible are consistent with best practice and in compliance with the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
Monitoring Financial reporting risk is actively monitored at business unit and Group levels.
There are specific programmes of work undertaken across the Group tosupport: annual assessments of: i the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting: and ii the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, both in accordance with the requirements of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act: and annual certifications by the Senior Accounting Officer with respect to the maintenance of appropriate tax accounting arrangements, in accordance with the requirements of the 2009 Finance Act.
The Group also has in place an assurance process to support its prudential regulatory reporting and monitoring activities designed to identify and review tax exposures on a regular basis.
There is ongoing monitoring to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
The Group has a Disclosure Committee which assists the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in fulfilling their disclosure responsibilities under relevant listing and other regulatory and legal requirements.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the quality and acceptability of the Groups financial disclosures.
For further information on the Audit Committees responsibilities relating to financial reporting see pages 72 to 75.
GOVERNANCE RISK Definition Governance risk is defined as the risk that the Groups organisational infrastructure fails to provide robust oversight of decision making and the control mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are implemented effectively.
Exposures The internal and corporate governance arrangements of major financial institutions continue to be subject to a high level of regulatory and public scrutiny.
The Groups exposure to governance risk is also reflective of the significant volume of existing and proposed legislation and regulation within the UK and overseas with which it must comply.
Risk governance and risk culture are mutually reinforcing.
Measurement The Groups governance arrangements are assessed against new or proposed legislation and regulation and best practice among peer organisations in order to identify any areas of enhancement required.
Model Risk appetite considers the performance of the Groups most material models.
Mitigation The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF establishes robust arrangements for risk governance, in particular by: Defining individual and collective accountabilities for risk management, risk oversight and risk assurance through a Three Lines of Defence model which supports the discharge of responsibilities to customers, shareholders and regulators: Outlining governance arrangements which articulate the enterprise-wide approach to risk management: and Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide behaviour and risk decision making through a Group Policy Framework which helps everyone understand their responsibilities by clearly articulating and communicating rules, standards, boundaries and risk appetite measures which can be controlled, enforced and monitored.
Under the banner of the RMF, training modules are in place to support all colleagues in understanding and fulfilling their risk responsibilities.
The Ethics and Responsible Business Policy and supporting Codes of Personal Responsibility and Business Responsibility embody the Groups values and reflect its commitment to operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and an individual level.
All colleagues are required to adhere to the Codes in all aspects of their roles.
Driving adherence to the Groups RMF goes hand in glove with its approach to risk culture which is embedded in the Groups approach torecruitment, selection, training, performance management and reward.
Monitoring A review of the Groups RMF, which includes the status of the Groups Principles and Policy Framework, and the design and operational effectiveness of key governance committees, is undertaken on an annual basis and the findings are reported to the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board.
This includes a review of the Groups current approach to governance and ongoing initiatives in light of the latest regulatory guidance, including in 2016 the further enhancement of frameworks to address Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR requirements and prepare for the requirement to ring-fence retail banking activities with effect from January 2019.
As part of the RMF, the performance of models is regularly monitored to ensure they remain fit-for-purpose.
For further information on Corporate Governance see pages 60 to 80.
For further information on Model Risk see page 78.
169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report 171 36.
Retirement benefit obligations REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement 179 37.
Deferred tax Our opinion Consolidated statement of 38.
Other provisions In our opinion: comprehensiveincome 180 39.
Subordinated liabilities Lloyds Banking Group plcs consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair Consolidated balance sheet 181 40.
Share capital view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the parent Consolidated statement of changes companys cash flows for the year then ended: 41.
Share premium account inequity 183 the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs 42.
Other reserves Consolidated cash flow statement 185 asadopted by the European Union: 43.
Retained profits the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied 44.
Other equity instruments in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and 45.
Dividends on ordinary shares Notes to the consolidated the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financialstatements 186 46.
Share-based payments financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Related party transactions What we have audited 2.
Contingent liabilities and commitments The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: 3.
Financial instruments the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: 4.
Transfers of financial assets the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: 5.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended: 6.
Net fee and commission income 52.
Financial risk management the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: 7.
Consolidated cash flow statement the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Acquisition of MBNA Limited Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Future accounting developments These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Insurance claims The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, 11.
Operating expenses as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Impairment Parent company balance sheet 277 Our audit approach 13.
Taxation Parent company statement ofchangesinequity 278 14.
Earnings per share Overview Parent company cash flow statement 279 15.
Trading and other financial assets Overall Group materiality: 325 million which represents 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax.
Statutory profits were adjusted at fair value through profit or loss to remove the effects of certain items which are exceptional and or one-off in nature.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial 16.
Derivative financial instruments Notes to the parent company significance of reporting units and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
Loans and advances to banks We performed audit procedures over reporting units we considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the 1.
Loans and advances to customers context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances.
We also performed other procedures including testing 2.
Securitisations and covered bonds entity level controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the residual reporting units.
Structured entities The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: and other equity instruments 21.
Allowance for impairment losses Loan loss impairment provisions Deferred tax asset 4.
Other reserves on loans and receivables Conduct risk and provisions Uncertain tax positions 5.
Available-for-sale financial assets Insurance actuarial assumptions Significant transactions 6.
Goodwill Defined benefit obligations Privileged access to IT systems 7.
Value of in-force business Hedge accounting 8.
Other intangible assets These items were initially discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan.
There were no modifications to this initial assessment 9.
Property, plant and equipment and these were the key matters for discussion at the conclusion of our audit.
Other assets Change of Senior Statutory Auditor 28.
Deposits from banks Following the mandatory rotation of the previous Engagement Partner, this is my first year as Senior Statutory Auditor to the Group.
In order to 29 Customer deposits better understand the Group, its operations, its financial reporting processes and the judgements exercised by the directors I observed a number 30.
Trading and other financial liabilities of Audit Committee meetings, auditor meetings with executive management and auditor process meetings from April 2015 to February 2016. at fair value through profit or loss Icommencedplanning the 2016 audit in March 2016 and presented the audit plan to the Audit Committee in April 2016.
Debt securities in issue of materiality, an identification of the areas of focus of the audit, an overview of planned audit testing strategies, audit team structure and proposed communications with the Audit Committee throughout the audit.
Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts What an audit of financial statements involves 33.
Life insurance sensitivity analysis An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 34.
Liabilities arising from non-participating that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: investment contracts whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied 35.
Other liabilities and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by
