Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors' report Corporate governance statement Directors and Officers liability insurance The corporate governance report found on pages 52 to 80 together Throughout 2016 the Group had appropriate insurance cover with this report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of the inplace to protect Directors, including the former Director who Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the Financial retired during the year, from liabilities that may arise against them Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
personally in connection with the performance of their role.
As well as insurance cover, the Group agrees to indemnify the Directors to Profit and dividends the maximum extent permitted by law.
Further information on the The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before Groups indemnity arrangements is provided below.
No Director tax for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 4,238 million orformer Director sought to recover costs or expenses under their 2015:1,644million.
The Directors have recommended a final dividend, which is subject Directors indemnities toapproval by the shareholders at the AGM, of 1.7pence per share The Directors of the Company, including the former Director who 2015: 1.5 pence per share totalling 1,212 million 2015: 1,070million.
retired during the year, have entered into individual deeds of The Directors have also recommended a special dividend of indemnity with the Company which constituted qualifying third party 0.5pence per share 2015: 0.5 pence per share totalling 356million indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The final and special dividend will be paid on The deeds indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted 16May 2017. by law and remain in force for the duration of a Directors period of The final dividend in respect of 2015 of 1.5 pence per ordinary share office.
The deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year was paid to shareholders on 17 May 2016, the special dividend in or from the date of appointment in respect of the Director appointed respect of 2015 of 0.5pence per ordinary share was paid to in 2016.
In addition, the Group had appropriate Directors' and shareholders on 17May 2016 and an interim dividend for 2016 of Officers' liability insurance cover in place throughout2016.
0.85pence per ordinary share was paid on 28 September 2016: these dividends totalled 2,034 million.
Further information on dividends is Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at the shown in note 45 on page 238 and is incorporated by reference.
The Company has also granted deeds of indemnity by deed poll Appointment and retirement of Directors and by way of entering into individual deeds, which constitute The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the qualifying third party indemnity provisions to the Directors of the Companys articles of association, the UK Corporate Governance Groups subsidiary companies, including to former Directors who Code and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys articles of retired during the year and since the year end.
Such deeds were in association may only be amended by a special resolution of the force during the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and remain shareholders in a general meeting.
in force as at the date of this report.
No Directors have been appointed to the Board since the 2016 AGM.
In the interests of good governance and in accordance with the Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will the Trustees of the Groups Pension Schemes, which were in force however retire, and those wishing to serve again, will submit for the whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Senior Independent Director, will retire at the 2017 AGM after serving Power of Directors in relation to shares more than eight years on the Board and Nick Luff, an independent The Board manages the business of the Company under the powers Non-Executive Director, has notified the Board that he does not set out in the articles of association, these powers include the intend to seek re-election at the 2017 AGM.
Directors ability to issue or buy back shares.
The Directors were Biographies of current Directors are set out on pages 54 to 57. granted authorities to issue and allot shares and to buy back shares Details of the Directors seeking re-election at the AGM are set out at the 2016 AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to renew these in the Notice of Meeting.
The authority in respect of purchase ofthe Companys ordinary shares is limited to 7,145,465,640 ordinary Board composition changes shares, equivalent to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2016 up of the Company.
tothe date of this report are shown in the table below: Joined the Board Retired from the Board The Company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year Stuart Sinclair 4 January 2016 2015: none.
Dyfrig John 11 May 2016 Information incorporated by reference The following additional information forms part of the Directors report, and is incorporated by reference.
Content Pages Group results Summary of Group results 33 to 36 Ordinary dividends Dividends on ordinary shares 238 Directors biographies Board of Directors 54 to 57 Directors in 2016 Board of Directors 54 to 57 Directors emoluments Directors remuneration report 84 to 114 Internal control and financial Financial reporting risk 168 to 169 risk management Risk management and Financial instruments 116 to 169 and 245 to 257 Information included in the Future developments 6 to 31 strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions additional information 25 Inclusion and diversity 23 to 24 Engaging colleagues 21 Disclosures required under Significant contracts 241 to 242 Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Dividend waivers 238 30 and 154 to 158 Principal risks and uncertainties Funding and liquidity 159 to 166 Capital position Share capital and control Share capital and restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights note to the accounts 234 Special rights with regard to the control of the Company note to the accounts 234 81 Governance Directors' report continued conclude that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going Substantial shareholders concern basis in preparing the accounts over the next 12 months, Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders from the date of approval of the financial statements.
pursuant to the DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified by its Viability statement substantial shareholders under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following The Directors have an obligation under the UK Corporate interests in the Companys shares: Governance Code to state whether they believe the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet their % of issued share capital with rights liabilities as they fall due over a specified period determined by the to vote in all Directors, taking account of the current position and the principal circumstances at risks of the Company and the Group.
1 Interest in shares general meetings In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide The Solicitor for the Affairs of range of information, including the principal and emerging risks 2 Her Majestys Treasury 4,943,698,490 6.93% which could impact the performance of the Group, and the Groups five year operating plan which comprises detailed customer, 3 BlackRock Inc. 3,668,756,765 5.14% financial, capital and funding projections together with an 4 assessment of relevant risk factors.
In particular in 2016, the Norges Bank 2,133,494,625 2.99% assessment included consideration of the effects of the continuing 1 Percentage provided was correct at the date of notification.
low interest rate environment, the impact of a potential slow-down 2 A direct holding.
The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury notified the in economic growth as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the Company on 6 January 2017 that their holding had decreased, to 4,243,603,868 shares, UKs exit from the EU, the possible effect upon the Groups financial representing 5.95 per cent of the issued share capital, and on 27 January 2017 that their holding had decreased, to 3,567,130,415 shares, representing 4.998 per cent of the issued position of the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and share capital.
the implications of ring-fencing, which over the next two years will 3 The most recent notification provided by BlackRock Inc. under Rule 5 of the DTR lead to internal restructuring and the establishment of the ringidentifies i an indirect holding of 3,599,451,380 shares in the Company representing fenced sub-group and a non-ring-fenced sub-group.
5.04 per cent of the voting rights in the Company, and ii a holding of 69,305,385 in other financial instruments in respect of the Company representing 0.09 per cent of the voting Group, divisional and business unit operating plans covering a period rights of the Company.
BlackRock Inc. s holding most recently notified to the Company of five years are produced and subject to rigorous stress testing on under Rule 5 of the DTR varies from the holding disclosed in BlackRock Inc. s Schedule an annual basis.
The planning process takes account of the Groups 13-G filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission dated 24 January 2017, which identifies beneficial ownership of 4,566,352,317 shares in the Company business objectives, the risks taken to seek to meet those objectives representing 6.4 per cent of the issued share capital in the Company.
This variance is and the controls in place to mitigate those risks to remain within the attributable to different notification and disclosure requirements between these Groups overall risk appetite.
The Groups planning process comprises the following key stages: No further notifications have been received under Rule 5 of the DTR Each year, divisional teams develop their operating plans which as at the date of this report.
are based on Group and divisional targets.
These targets are driven by the Groups strategy, risk appetite and objectives in Change of control the context of the operating environment and external market The Company is not party to any significant contracts that are subject commitments, which are revised annually by the Board.
to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid.
There The financial projections and the underlying assumptions in are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or respect of expected market and business changes, and future employees providing compensation for loss of office or employment expected legal, accounting and regulatory changes are subject that occurs because of a takeover bid.
torigorous review and challenge from both divisional and Group The Company is party to a deed of covenant with each of the four executives.
The Board obtains independent assurance from Risk Lloyds Foundations the Foundations which hold limited voting Division over the alignment of the plan with Group strategy and shares in the Company the limited voting shares are further Board risk appetite.
This assessment also identifies the key risks described in note 40 on page 234.
Under the terms of the deeds todelivery of the Groups operating plan.
ofcovenant, the Company makes an annual payment to each of the The Group operates a robust stress testing framework to assess Foundations.
In the event of a successful offer for more than 50 per compliance of the operating plan with the Group risk appetite.
cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each Theplan, which incorporates detailed capital and funding plans, limited voting share would convert to an ordinary share under issubject to both regulatory and internal stress testing scenarios, theterms of the Companys articles of association.
The payment inaddition to reverse stress testing.
Further information on stress obligation under the deeds of covenant would come to an end testing and reverse stress testing is provided on page 119.
The oneyear following the conversion of the limited voting shares.
internal stress testing scenarios are designed to be severe but plausible: and take full account of the availability and likely Branches effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions Research and development activities of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk and internal During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new control systems, as discussed on page 67, is taken into account.
products and services within the business units.
The final five year operating plan, Risk Division assessment and theresults of the stress testing are presented to the Board for Post balance sheet events approval.
Once approved, the operating plan drives detailed There have been no other material post balance sheet events.
divisional and Group targets for the following year.
Going concern The Directors have specifically assessed the prospects of the The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on Company and the Group over the first three years of the current successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining plan.
The uncertain economic and political environment caused adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the bythe UK's plans to leave the EU and the pace of regulatory change Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to mean that the assumptions supporting the fourth and fifth years of operate for the foreseeable future, the Directors have considered the operating plan are likely to be less reliable.
As a result, the Board a number of key dependencies which are set out in the risk considers that a three year period continues to present a reasonable management section under principal risks and uncertainties: funding degree of confidence over expected events and macroeconomic and liquidity on page 30 and pages 154 to 158 and capital position on assumptions, whilst still providing an appropriate longer-term pages 159 to 166 and additionally have considered projections for the outlook, although the remaining period ofthe operating plan Groups capital and funding position.
Accordingly, the Directors contains no information which would cause different conclusions 82 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 tobe reached over the longer-term viability ofthe Company information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of andGroup.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Information relevant to the assessment can be found in the following sections of the annual report and accounts: Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  LLP as auditor and authorising the Audit The Groups principal activities, business and operating models Committee to set its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
and strategic direction are described in the strategic report on pages 1 to 31: Statement of directors responsibilities Emerging risks are disclosed on page 118: The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, theDirectors remuneration report and the financial statements The principal risks, including the Groups objectives, policies and inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law processes for managing credit, capital, liquidity and funding, are requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each provided in the risk management section on pages 124 to 169: and financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the The Groups approach to stress testing and reverse stress testing, Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with including both regulatory and internal stresses, is described on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by page 119. the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Based upon this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years to 31 December 2019. that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply Greenhouse gas emissions them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that The Group has voluntarily reported greenhouse gas emissions and are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable IFRSs as environmental performance since 2009, and since 2013 this has been adopted by the European Union have been followed.
reported in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Our total emissions, in tonnes of CO equivalent, are reported in the 2 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys strategic report on page 25. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Deloitte LLP has provided limited level ISAE 3000 Revised thefinancial position of the Company and the Group and enable assurance over selected non-financial indicators as noted by.
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Their full, independent assurance statement is available online remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, atwww.
com RBdownloads asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Methodology the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps The Group follows the principles of the Greenhouse Gas GHG for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website at our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions from our worldwide operations.
The Directors are responsible for the The reporting period is 1October 2015 to 30 September 2016, maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in which is different to that of our Directors report January 2016 the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial December 2016.
This is in line with Regulations in that the majority statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the emissions reporting year falls within the period of the Each of the current Directors who are in office as at the date of this Directors report.
Emissions are reported based on an operational report, and whose names and functions are listed on pages 54 to57 boundary.
The scope of reporting is in line with the GHG Protocol of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her and covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Reported knowledge: Scope 1 emissions cover emissions generated from gas and oil used the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in in buildings, emissions from UK company-owned vehicles used for accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give business travel and emissions from the use of air conditioning and atrue and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and chiller refrigerant plant.
Reported Scope 2 emissions cover profit or loss of the Company and Group: and emissions generated from the use of electricity, calculated using the location based methodology.
Reported Scope 3 emissions relate to the management report contained in the strategic report and the business travel undertaken by colleagues and emissions associated Directors report includes a fair review of the development and with the extraction and distribution of each of our energy sources performance of the business and the position of the Company electricity, gas and oil.
A detailed definition of these emissions can andGroup, together with a description of the principal risks and be found in our 2016 Reporting Criteria online at uncertainties that they face.
com RBdownloads The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Intensity ratio An intensity ratio of GHG gases CO e per m of underlying income information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys 2 position and performance, business model and strategy.
TheDirectors have also separately reviewed and approved the Oct 2015 Oct 2014 strategic report.
Sept 2016 Sept 2015 GHG emissions per unit of On behalf of the Board underlying income 19.7 22.4 Omissions Emissions associated with joint ventures and investments are not included in this disclosure as they fall outside the scope of our operational boundary.
The Group does not have any emissions associated with heat, steam or cooling and is not aware of any othermaterial sources of omissions from our reporting.
Malcolm Wood Independent auditor and audit information Company Secretary Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report 21 February 2017 confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Lloyds Banking Group plc information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Registered in Scotland Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken Company number SC95000 as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 83
