Governance Group Executive Committee Delivering our vision and managing a more agile organisation The depth of diverse experience and complementary skills in our management team strengthens our ability to adjust to changing market environments and deliver our strategy to become the best bank for customers 01 Antnio Horta-Osrio Executive Director and Group Chief Executive Antnio joined the Board in January 2011 as an Executive Director and became Group Chief Executive in March 2011.
02 George Culmer Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer George joined the Board as an Executive Director in May 2012.
03 Juan Colombs Executive Director and Chief Risk Officer Juan joined the Group as Chief Risk Officer in January 2011 and joined the Board as an Executive Director in November 2013.
04 Andrew Bester Group Director and CEO, Commercial Banking 05 Karin Cook Andrew joined the Group in 2012 from Standard Chartered Bank where he Group Director, Operations held a variety of senior roles including Global COO and, later, Chief Financial Karin joined the Group in 2013 as Chief Operating Officer, Commercial Officer of Consumer Banking.
Previously, Andrew worked at Xchanging Plc Banking and became Group Director, Operations in 2015.
Karin joined from and Deutsche Bank and trained as a Chartered Accountant.
Andrew sits on HSBC where she was Global Chief Operating Officer for Private Banking and the Board of the Global Financial Markets Association GFMA and the previously, Global Head of OTC Derivative Operations.
Prior to HSBC, Karin Advisory Board of the University of Cambridge Programme for Sustainability spent nine years at Morgan Stanley in London and five years at Goldman Leadership and is a member of The Prince of Waless UK Corporate Leaders Sachs in Paris, in a variety of Operations and Finance roles.
Andrew is Executive Sponsor for Inclusion & Diversity and the Groups degree in Modern Languages from Cambridge University.
Non-Executive Director of Scottish Widows Ltd and is also the Groups Executive Sponsor for Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity.
06 Simon Davies Chief People, Legal and Strategy Officer Simon joined the Group in 2016 from Linklaters LLP where he was Firmwide Managing Partner, a position he held from January 2008.
Prior to this, Simon spent 12 years in Asia, specialising in M&A and securities advice, serving terms in each of Hong Kong and Tokyo and was Managing Partner for Asia from 2003-2007.
He is a Solicitor of the High Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, as well as a Solicitor of the Senior Courts of England and Wales.
Simon joined Linklaters in London in 1990, having studied at Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Simon is Group Executive sponsor for Ethnicity.
He is also a member of TheCityUK China Market Advisory Group and a trustee of the National Youth Theatre of Great Britain.
07 Antonio Lorenzo Chief Executive, Scottish Widows and Group Director, Insurance Antonio joined the Group in 2011 as head of the Wealth and International division and Group Corporate Development, leading a strategic review andsubsequent programme of reducing non-core assets and exiting international locations.
From 2013, he assumed the role of Group Director, Consumer Finance & Group Corporate Development, leading the divisions growth strategy whilst completing the sale of TSB, before being appointed asChief Executive, Scottish Widows and Group Director, Insurance.
Antonio is also Group Executive Sponsor for Emerging Talent.
Antonio joined the Group from Santander, where he had worked in a number of different leadership roles and jurisdictions since 1998.
He was part of the management team that completed the take-overs of Abbey National in 2004 then Bradford & Bingley and Alliance & Leicester in 2008, and was ChiefFinancial Officer of Santander UK.
Before Santander, Antonio spent over nine years at Arthur Andersen.
58 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 08 Vim Maru 11 Janet Pope Group Director, Customer Products and Marketing Chief of Staff GEC attendee Vim is the Group Director for the Customer Products and Marketing division Janet joined the Group in 2008 to run the Savings business.
She was responsible for Retail customer products and all marketing across Lloyds previously Chief Executive at Alliance Trust Savings, prior to which she Banking Group.
Vim joined the Group in June 2011 as Managing Director, wasEVP Global Strategy at Visa International.
Janet spent 10 years at Customer Products, responsible for Retail product design and management StandardChartered Bank where she held a variety of roles including across all of the Groups brands.
He was appointed to the Group Executive RetailBanking MDfor Africa and non-executive directorships at Standard Committee in August 2013.
Vim is a non-executive member of the Groups Chartered Bank Zimbabwe, Kenya, Zambia and Botswana.
Janet has held Insurance Board.
Previously Vim worked for over 12 years at Santander, in a non-executive positions on the audit committees of the Department for range of roles in Corporate Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions, the Life Division Communities and Local Government, The Rent Service Department for Work and most recently held the position of Director, Retail Products.
Vim holds an and Pensions and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
Janet studied at Economics degree from the London School of Economics and is a member of the London School of Economics.
She has a Masters degree in Economics the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
and holds anMBA from Cass Business School.
09 Zaka Mian 12 Matthew Young Group Director, Digital and Transformation Group Corporate Affairs Director Zak joined the Group in 1989 as a Business Analyst in IT.
He was appointed Matt joined the Group as Corporate Affairs Director in 2011.
Prior to Lloyds, Group Director, Digital and Transformation in 2016 and is responsible for he was Communications Director at Santander during a period when the theGroup-wide digital business across Retail, Consumer Finance, Insurance bank made a successful entry into the UK market following the acquisition and Commercial divisions, and the associated Transformation programmes.
and subsequent rebranding of Abbey National, Alliance & Leicester, and Before his current role, Zak led the Digital Transformation programme for Bradford& Bingley.
Matt joined Santander from NatWest in 1999 where anumber of years and was also Retail CIO and head of IT architecture.
heheld a number of senior communications roles.
Matt has a degree in Zakhas a computer science degree from York University.
PoliticalScience and a postgraduate certificate in Education.
He is a Board member of the British Bankers Association, a member of the PR Guild, and aformer trustee of the Prince of Wales sponsored charity, In Kind Direct.
10 David Oldfield Group Director, Retail and Consumer Finance David was appointed in June 2015 as Group Director for the Retail division responsible for the retail branch network across Lloyds, Halifax and Bank of Scotland brands, along with UK Wealth and Business Banking.
Additionally, in February2016, David assumed responsibility for the Consumer Finance division.
David started his career with Lloyds Bank 32 years ago on the graduate entrant programme and has held a number of key leadership GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE KEY roles across all divisions of the Group since that time.
Immediately prior to this role he was appointed to the Group ExecutiveCommittee in May 2014 asGroupDirector, Operations.
David is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute 04 05 09 12 ofBankers.
He is also Group Executive Sponsor for Disability.
