Governance Corporate governance report This report sets out our approach to governance in practice, the work of the Board and its committees and explains how the Group applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code during 2016 LEADERSHIP The Board The Group is led by an effective, committed and unitary Board, The Corporate Governance Framework, which is reviewed annually by the Board, sets out a number of key decisions and matters that which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board comprises a Chairman who was independent are reserved for the Boards approval.
on appointment, independent Non-Executive Directors and The Board sets the strategy, oversees its delivery and establishes Executive Directors.
The names and biographies of current the culture, values and standards of the Group.
Directors are set out on pages 54 to 57.
The Board ensures that the Group manages risk effectively, There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the monitors financial performance and reporting and ensures that Company, which is documented in the Groups Corporate appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements and Governance Framework.
The Chairman has overall responsibility remuneration policies are in place.
It provides and encourages forthe leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness entrepreneurial leadership across the Group within this framework.
while the Group Chief Executive manages and leads the business.
Key roles and responsibilities Chairman Senior Independent Director Group Chief Executive Lord Blackwell Anthony Watson Antnio Horta-Osrio Lord Blackwell leads the Board and promotes As the Senior Independent Director, Anthony Antnio Horta-Osrio manages the Group the highest standards of corporate Watson is a sounding board for the Chairman on a day-to-day basis and makes decisions governance.
He sets the Boards agenda and Group Chief Executive.
He acts as a on matters affecting the operation, andbuilds an effective and complementary conduit for the views of other Non-Executive performance and strategy of the Groups Board.
The Chairman leads Board succession Directors and conducts the Chairmans business.
He delegates aspects of his own planning and ensures effective annual performance appraisal.
He is available authority, as permitted under the Corporate communication with shareholders.
to help resolve shareholders concerns and Governance Framework, to members of the attend meetings with major shareholders Group Executive Committee GEC.
He andfinancial analysts to understand issues provides leadership and direction to senior and concerns.
management and coordinates all activities to implement the strategy and for managing the business in accordance with the Groups risk appetite and business plan set by the Board.
Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Anita Frew AlanDickinson, SimonHenry, NickLuff, Juan Colombs, George Culmer DeborahMcWhinney, NickPrettejohn, Anita Frew as Deputy Chairman ensures Under the leadership of the Group Chief StuartSinclair, SaraWeller continuity of Chairmanship during any Executive, the Executive Directors make and change of chairmanship.
She supports the The Non-Executive Directors challenge implement decisions in all matters affecting Chairman in representing the Board and constructively and help develop and set the operations, performance and strategy.
She deputises for Groups strategy.
They actively participate provide specialist knowledge and experience the Chairman and is available to the Board inBoard decision making and scrutinise to the Board.
They are responsible for the for consultation and advice.
The Nonsuccessful leadership and management of Chairman represents the Groups interests Executive Directors satisfy themselves on the the Risk and Finance divisions respectively.
toofficial enquiries and review bodies.
integrity of financial information and review The Executive Directors design, develop and the Groups risk exposures and controls.
implement strategic plans and deal with TheNon-Executive Directors, through the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Remuneration Committee, determine the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Company Secretary Malcolm Wood The Company Secretary advises the Board and ensures good information flows and comprehensive practical support are provided to Directors.
He maintains the Groups Corporate Governance Framework and organises Directors induction and training.
The Company Secretary communicates with shareholders as appropriate and ensures due regard is paid to their interests.
Both the appointment and removalof the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
60 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD AND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE LLOYDS BANKING GROUP BOARD Group Chief Nomination and Board Risk Remuneration Executive Governance Committee Committee Committee Read more Read more Read more on page 69 on page 76 on page 113 Group Chief Audit Responsible Executive Committee Business Committees Committee Read more Read more Read more on page 72 on page 79 on page 121 A full schedule of all matters reserved to the Board and Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees can be found at www.
com our-group corporate-governance Prior to the AGM in Scotland the Board held a joint discussion with Board Committees the Board of Scottish Widows Group Limited allowing in-depth The Board is supported by its Committees which make focus on insurance matters.
recommendations on matters delegated to them under the Corporate Governance Framework, in particular in relation tointernal control, risk, Attendance at Board meetings in 2016 financial reporting, governance and remuneration matters.
1 Eligible to attend Attended This enables the Board to spend a greater proportion of its time Directors who served during 2016 onstrategic, forward looking agenda items.
Each Committee Antnio Horta-Osrio 9 9 comprises Non-Executive Directors only and is chaired by an experienced Chairman.
The Committee Chairmen report to the Lord Blackwell 9 9 Board on the activities of the Committee at each Board meeting.
Juan Colombs 9 9 The Board recognises that governance must be dynamic and evolve George Culmer 9 to meet current and future demands.
Therefore, in 2016 two further 9 sub-committees of the Board Risk Committee were established to Alan Dickinson 9 9 focus on Financial Markets and IT Resilience & Cyber, in addition to Anita Frew 9 9 an existing Stress Testing & Recovery Planning sub-committee.
The sub-committees were constituted to enable members of the Board 2 Simon Henry 9 8 Risk Committee to dedicate additional time and resource to better Nick Luff 9 9 understand and to enable fuller review and challenge of the risks associated with the topic of the sub-committee.
Current direct Board Deborah McWhinney 9 9 level oversight of these activities through regular updates and annual 3 Nick Prettejohn 8 9 review continues unchanged.
4 Additionally, a Cyber Security Advisory Panel was established to Stuart Sinclair 9 9 bring an industry perspective and allow for discussion of the key Anthony Watson 9 9 cyber related activities and threats.
Sara Weller 9 9 The Board in 2016 Former directors who served Non-Executive Directors see attendance at Board and Committee during 2016 meetings as only one part of their role.
In addition to the annual 5 Dyfrig John 4 4 schedule of Board and Committee meetings, the Non-Executive Directors undertake a full programme of activities each year, as set 1 The attendance of Directors at Committee meetings is displayed within the individual out on page 64.
Committee reports found on pages 69 to 80 and for the Remuneration Committee on page 113.
Whilst all Non-Executive Directors are, where appropriate, invited to and Non-Executive Directors regularly meet with senior management regularly attend other Committee meetings, only their attendance at Committees of and spend time increasing their understanding of the business which they are members is recorded.
2 Mr Henry was unable to join the July Board meeting due to the second quarter 2016 through site visits, formal briefing sessions or more informal events results announcement for Royal Dutch Shell plc, of which he is Chief Financial Officer, including breakfast meetings with senior staff, which the Chief being presented on the same day.
People, Legal and Strategy Officer also attends.
Board dinners 3 Mr Prettejohn was unable to join the June Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
are held prior to each scheduled Board meeting.
This allows the 4 Joined the Board on 4 January 2016.
Directors greater time to discuss their views, ensuring that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of a material nature at Board meetings.
Some of these pre meetings are for Non-Executive Directors only, some also include the Group Chief Executive and others the full Board and GEC members.
At least once a year, a meeting is held without the Chairman in attendance.
61 Governance Corporate governance report continued How Board meetings are run AGENDA SETTING PROCESS The Chairman ensures Board meetings are structured to facilitate open discussion, debate and challenge.
Through his opening remarks, the Chairman sets the focus of each meeting.
In the rare event of a Director being unable to attend a meeting, theChairman discusses the matters proposed with the Director concerned, seeking their support and or feedback accordingly.
Yearly planner prepared by the Company TheChairman subsequently represents those views at the meeting.
Secretary to map out the ow of key items of Directors are sent papers for the Board meeting typically seven days business to the Board in advance of the meeting in order that they may have the time to consider the proposals put forward and seek clarification or further information as required.
The Board makes full use of technology such as video conferencing, teleconferencing, a Board portal and The Chairman holds monthly meetings to tablets in its meeting arrangements.
This leads to greater flexibility, review the draft agenda and planner with the security and efficiency in Board paper distribution.
Company Secretary and the Chief of Staff Ensuring the right focus to deliver the Groups strategy The Board recognises the need to be adaptable and flexible torespond to changing circumstances and emerging business Draft Board agenda discussed between the priorities, whilst ensuring the continuing monitoring and oversight Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and of core issues.
reviewed at GEC meetings The Group has a comprehensive and continuous agenda setting and escalation process in place for ensuring the Board has the right information at the right time and in the right format to enable the Directors to make the right decisions.
The Chairman leads the Matters may be added to agendas in response process, assisted by the Group Chief Executive and Company to external events, Non-Executive Director Secretary.
The process ensures that sufficient time is being set requests and the quarterly Board Topic Review asidefor strategic discussions and business critical items.
meetings The process of escalating issues and agenda setting is reviewed atleast annually as part of the Board Effectiveness Review with enhancements made to the process, where necessary, to ensure itremains effective.
The Non-Executive Directors also receive regular updates from the PROCESS FOR ESCALATING ISSUES Group Chief Executives office including a weekly email which gives context to current issues.
In-depth and background materials are regularly provided via a reading room on the Board portal.
Board and Committee agendas and topics Senior Managers and Certification Regime Last year, the Corporate Governance Framework was reviewed inpreparation for the introduction in March 2016 of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR and, as relevant to theScottish Widows Group, the Senior Insurance Managers Regime.
Corporate Time allocated at Quarterly Board The review, which was part of a wider range of initiatives undertaken Governance each GEC meeting Topic Review to prepare the Group for the introduction of SM&CR, found that the Framework to consider meetings led framework was generally aligned with the requirements of the imposes clear whether any by the Chairman SM&CR but a number of changes were recommended.
responsibility on matters require These included amendments to the statements of responsibilities GEC members to escalation ofthe Directors and members of the GEC and minor amendments escalate matters to the terms of reference of a number of Board and Group Chief Executive Committees.
The Board considered the opportunity at a number of meetings Board oversight: MBNA acquisition during 2016 and spent considerable time at each meeting In December 2016 the Group announced that it had agreed to discussing and reviewing the acquisition and approving next acquire MBNA, a UK consumer credit card business, from Bank steps.
As part of its oversight role, the Board challenged and ofAmerica.
This is a significant strategic step which reinforces the scrutinised the rationale for the acquisition and received detailed Group's ability to deliver sustainable growth whilst helping Britain progress updates and papers.
Key issues considered by the Board prosper and will enhance the Group's position and offering in the in reaching the decision to approve the acquisition included: UK prime credit card market.
The transaction is expected to strategic context: funding options: financial effects: due diligence complete by the end of the first half of 2017, subject to the receipt findings: cost synergies: risks: and their impact on the Group.
of competition and regulatory approval.
62 Board paper template and guidelines and targeted training for authors Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD FOCUS IN 2016 Financial Strategy Culture and values Budget for 2016 Review of progress in implementing Customer performance dashboard the Groups 2015-17 strategy Group operating plan Conduct, culture and values Approval of large transactions Draft results and presentation to analysts Responsible Business report MBNA acquisition Approval of dividends Helping Britain Prosper Plan EU referendum outcome Funding and Liquidity plan Review of future environment Capital plan and business model Regular agenda items Group performance report from the Group Chief Executive Report on financial performance, including budgets, forecasts and capital position from the Chief Financial officer Risk report from the Chief Risk officer Chairmans activities report Reports from Committee Chairmen Governance and shareholders Regulatory Risk management Board effectiveness and Chairmans Ring-fencing and resolution Approval of Group risk appetite performance reviews SM&CR updates Approval of Risk Management Framework Board Diversity Policy Regulatory updates Review of internal control systems Review of Corporate Governance Whistleblowing updates Review and approval of PRA and Framework EBA stress testing results Investor Relations updates CMA market review into retail banking services AGM brieng IT resilience and cyber security In the first half of 2016, preparation for proposed public offering of shares in the Company by HM Treasury BOARD MEETINGS AND ACTIVITY IN 2016 B BD D B D B BD BD B D B B JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Board site visit to Halifax 2015 full Q1 AGM Strategy Half year Q3 and Group year results offsite results results operating results and meeting and plan with dividend dividend strategic focus KEY Board meeting B Board meeting and deep dive BD Deep dive D The deep dive sessions, strategy offsite meeting and site visit to Halifax are described on page 64 63 Governance Corporate governance report continued BOARD ACTIVITIES IN 2016 SUPPORTING DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Deep dives Board strategy offsite The Board regularly takes the opportunity to hold deep dive The Board sets aside time each year outside of the annual Board calendar to hold a strategy offsite giving the Directors sessions with senior management outside of formal Board meetings.
the opportunity to solely focus on strategic issues.
The purpose of the sessions is to provide the Board with This year the Board and the GEC held a two day offsite in June deeper insight into key areas of strategic focus.
The sessions to discuss the strategic challenges and opportunities the Group are structured to allow for plenty of opportunity for discussion faces in the future, based on four scenarios for how banking and include presentations and videos.
could evolve over the next ten years.
The offsite enabled the Board to take a view of the longer-term outlook for the Group.
In 2016 deep dive sessions were held on the following topics: The Board debated the transformation required to be Bank of Commercial Banking the Future in order to underpin continued competitive success.
Customer perspective This will provide the backdrop to the next phase of strategic development, on which the Group will report later in 2017.
Data infrastructure and information security The agenda included case studies from banking and other Consumer Finance industries, and presentations from senior management and Customer segmentation smaller break-out sessions on specic topics.
Retail product pricing The offsite concluded with a group discussion leveraging the broad range of experience and perspectives from across the Board.
Creating the best Becoming simpler Delivering sustainable growth customer experience and more efficient Board visit to Halifax Chairmans engagement programme The Chairman undertakes an extensive engagement Over two days in November the Board visited the Groups Halifax ofces.
In addition to the Board and Committee programme each year representing the Group at industry events, acting as a spokesperson for the Group and meeting meetings, a separate strategy meeting, attended by GEC members, was held reviewing the Group operating plan.
During with clients, regulators, investors, the media, the Foundations and their beneciaries.
the visit, the Chairman and several Non-Executive Directors, spent half a day with some of the c3,000 colleagues based in The programme includes visits to regional ofces, branches, Halifax.
The visit included a walk through the Mortgage IT and operations centres, where the Chairman meets local Transformation lab to learn about the improvements being management and colleagues through meetings, oor walks, made to the customer mortgage journey.
team talks and Town Hall sessions.
The Town Hall sessions are The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also spent time with an opportunity for colleagues to hear from the Chairman on the the Banking Complaints Team, where they followed a complaint Groups performance and strategic direction, and importantly, through to its outcome and joined a huddle discussing how to ask questions.
These events are very popular and are always Financial Ombudsmen Service learnings could be used to well attended.
ensure fair customer outcomes in the future.
Showing support for customers and the community In September, Lord Blackwell spent two days in Aberdeen where he met with more than 100 business customers.
During his visit, he delivered the keynote speech at a dinner for customers and local influencers, emphasising the Group's vital role in helping Britain prosper and the importance of building long-term customer relationships.
At a breakfast for Mid Markets clients and local business leaders, he outlined his views on the economy and the importance of supporting local businesses.
Lord Blackwell also found time to host a Town Hall and Q&A session for colleagues at the Group's Albyn Place office.
His final stop was an inspiring visit to Fly Cup Catering in Inverurie, a charity funded by the Bank of Scotland Foundation which provides catering training, employment experience and placements for adults with learning difficulties.
Speaking about the visit, he said: I came away enthused by the commitment and enthusiasm of everyone I met, and by the general sense of cautious optimism from our commercial clients and relationship managers.
It is extremely helpful to me to hear these perspectives first hand and to meet more of our tremendous colleagues.
64 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 EFFECTIVENESS BOARD INDUCTION PROGRAMME Board induction The Chairman personally ensures that on appointment each Director Core Strategic and corporate induction receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
The emphasis is on programme Governance and Director ensuring the induction brings the business and its issues alive for responsibilities thenew Director, taking account of the specific role they have been Senior Managers and appointed to fulfil and the skills experience of the Director to date.
Certication Regime Directors who take on or change roles during the year attend Detailed risk induction programme induction meetings in respect of those new roles.
Detailed briengs on each of the An outline of the induction programme is set out opposite and Groups business divisions Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair share their experiences Branch and site visits onjoining the Board on page 71.
Opportunity to meet with major shareholders as requested Professional development and training The Chairman leads the learning and development of Directors andthe Board generally and regularly reviews and agrees with One-to-one Chairman eachDirector their training and development needs.
briengs Company Secretary Ample opportunities, support and resources for learning are Executive Directors provided through a comprehensive programme, which is in place GEC members throughout the year comprising both formal and informal training Group Audit Director and information sessions.
Senior executives from across The Company Secretary maintains a training and development the Group logfor each Director.
Time commitments Bespoke The Chairman personally ensures a new programme Director receives a tailored induction.
Non-Executive Directors are required to devote such time as is Specic briengs are provided on the necessary for the effective discharge of their duties.
The estimated Committees on which the new Director minimum time commitment set out in the terms of appointment will serve.
is35-40 days per annum including attendance at Committee meetings.
For Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director, this increases to a minimum of 45 to 50 days.
As described Brieng and reading materials elsewhere, the time devoted on the Groups business by the Brieng and reading materials are made available on the Board portal.
Non-Executive Directors is in reality considerably more than theminimum requirements.
Executive Directors are restricted to taking no more than one non-executive director role in a FTSE 100 company and may not take on the chairmanship of such a company.
The Chairman is committed to this being his primary role, limiting his other PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND commitments to ensure he can spend as much time as the role TRAINING PROGRAMME AT A GLANCE requires.
In February 2016, the Chairman retired as Chairman of Interserve plc.
The Chairmans biography can be found on page 54.
Conflicts of interest Training and The Board has a comprehensive procedure for reviewing and, as information sessions permitted by the Companies Act 2016 and the Companys articles of association, approving actual and potential conflicts of interests.
Directors have a continuing duty to notify the Chairman and Site visits, Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of actual or Brieng material Board dinners and potential conflict situations.
Changes to the commitments of all on Board portal breakfast meetings Directors are reported to the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Board and a register of potential conflicts and time commitments is regularly reviewed and authorised by the Board to ensure the authorisation status remains appropriate.
Management and Stuart Sinclair is Senior Independent Director at both QBE Insurance one-to-one meetings on Deep dives Europe Limited, a general insurance and reinsurance company, and key topics Swinton Group Limited, an insurance broker for home and motor insurance.
The Board has recognised that potential conflicts may arise in relation to his position at QBE Insurance and in relation toSwinton Group.
The Board has authorised the potential conflicts and requires Mr Sinclair to recuse himself from discussions, should the need arise.
Access to advice The Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of independent professional advisers in order to assist Directors intheir role.
Board Committees are also provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, have access to the services of the Company Secretary in relation to the discharge of their duties.
65 Governance Corporate governance report continued Board effectiveness 2016 EVALUATION PROCESS The Chairman of the Board leads the annual review of the Boards Step 1 Detailed questionnaire completed by each Director effectiveness and that of its Committees and individual Directors with the support of the Nomination and Governance Committee, Step 2 Individual meetings held between each Director and which he also chairs.
The annual evaluation is facilitated externally the Company Secretary at least once every three years.
Step 3 Evaluation of the findings by the Company Secretary 2016 evaluation of the Boards performance and report prepared The 2016 evaluation was conducted internally between November 2016 and December 2016 by the Company Secretary, and was Step 4 Draft conclusions discussed by the Company overseen by the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Secretary with the Chairman The 2016 review sought the Directors views on a range of topics including: strategy: planning and performance: risk and control: Step 5 Discussion of the Company Secretarys report and Board composition and size: balance of skills and experience: draft conclusions and actions agreed diversity: culture and dynamics: the Boards calendar and agenda: the quality and timeliness of information: and support for Directors Chairmans evaluation and Committees.
The Senior Independent Director carried out the evaluation of the Chairmans performance using a questionnaire and individual If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed action meetings with Directors other than the Chairman.
The outcome which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board minutes.
Also of the evaluation of the Chairmans performance was discussed on resignation, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to provide by the Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
awritten statement of any concerns to the Chairman, for circulation tothe Board.
No such concerns were raised in 2016 and up to the date of this report.
Recommendations from the 2016 Board Anthony Watson, Senior Independent Director, is due to retire at the 2017 AGM.
At the time of the 2017 AGM, he will have served on the effectiveness review internal Board for more than eight years and therefore, in compliance with The review identified a number of actions to maintain and improve theCode, his review was particularly rigorous.
Volume of Board Committee papers Outcome of 2016 Board effectiveness review The most common observation by Directors concerned the volume The reviews concluded that the performance of the Board, its ofinformation which they received.
Directors would like to receive Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors continues to more concise reports with clearer signposting of the key issues.
All Directors demonstrated commitment to their roles.
Links to strategy Many Directors commented favourably on the performance of Several Directors said they would welcome more frequent linkage the Board as a whole, describing it as hardworking, collegiate, tostrategy in the regular business of the Board.
Developments during 2016, including the continued use of deep dives, the establishment of Conduct of Board Committees sub-committees of the Board Risk Committee and the Cyber Security Several Directors said that they would value more time in agendas Advisory Panel have generally been welcomed and Directors have fordiscussion, while recognising the pressures on meeting time.
commented on the high quality of debate within the Board.
Highlights mentioned by several Directors were the strategy offsite in June and governance of the acquisition of the MBNA UK consumer credit card business, where the Board was highly engaged in oversight and challenge of the acquisition process.
Directors also spoke highly of the work done by the Chairman and the Chairs of the Committees in structuring agendas and ensuring that business is covered at themeetings.
2015 Board effectiveness review external In accordance with the three year cycle, the 2015 evaluation was facilitated externally by JCA Group between October 2015 and January 2016.
The review was commissioned by the Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary and overseen by the Nomination and Governance Committee.
A summary of the Boards progress against the actions arising from the 2015 effectiveness review are set out below.
Recommendations Actions taken progress Strategy Continue to focus on strategy, with particular attention to the longer 2016 strategy offsite focused on reviewing future environment and term horizon and the impact of the changing technology and business model competitive landscape Regular Board deep dives and discussion topics related to digital disruption and strategic development held during the year Succession planning Maintain a proactive approach to succession planning for Executive Non-Executive Director discussion on Executive succession carried out and Non-Executive Directors and for senior management Non-Executive Directors are informed about and able to input onGroup Chief Executive succession planning Chairman and Nomination and Governance Committee continued toreview Non-Executive Director profile and succession Board information Continue the progress made in 2015 in ensuring that information Continued progress on reducing unnecessary material and provided to the Board and its Committees is clear, concise, relevant presentations and focused Revised Board template and guidance in place Review and continue to evolve metrics used to assess business Regular reporting on business performance has continued performance to ensure that they provide an appropriate level of to develop in response to Board feedback detail and insight for the Board 66 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 inplace to address key gaps or weaknesses in the control INTERNAL CONTROL framework.
Business areas and head office functions assess the Board responsibility controls in placeto address all material risk exposures across all risk types.
The CER considers all material controls, including financial, The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and operational and compliance controls.
Senior management complete internal control systems, which are designed to facilitate effective an attestation to confirm the CER findings which are reviewed and and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and independently challenged by the Risk Division and Group Audit external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and andreported to the Board.
Action plans are implemented to regulations.
The Directors and senior management are committed address any controldeficiencies.
to maintaining a robust control framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
The Directors acknowledge Reviews by the Board their responsibilities in relation to the Groups risk management and The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
systems is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit In establishing and reviewing the risk management and internal Committee, which also receives reports of reviews undertaken by control systems, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the Risk Division and Group Audit.
The Audit Committee receives the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would reports from the Companys auditor,  LLP threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or which include details of significant internal control matters that they liquidity, the likelihood of a risk event occurring and the costs of have identified, and has a discussion with the auditor at least once control.
The process for identification, evaluation and management ayear without executives present, to ensure that there are no of the principal risks faced by the Group is integrated into the unresolved issues of concern.
Groups overall framework for risk governance.
The Group is The Groups risk management and internal control systems are forward-looking in its risk identification processes to ensure regularly reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the emerging risks are identified.
The risk identification, evaluation and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related management process also identifies whether the controls in place Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting result in an acceptable level of risk.
At Group level, a consolidated Council and compliant with the requirements of CRD IV.
They have risk report and risk appetite dashboard are reviewed and regularly been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the debated by the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee and approval of the annual report.
The Group has determined a the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall risk pathway to compliance with BCBS 239 risk data aggregation profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The report and and risk reporting requirements and continues to actively dashboard provide a monthly view of the Groups overall risk profile, manageenhancements.
key risks and management actions, together with performance against risk appetite and an assessment of emerging risks which Conclusion could affect the Groups performance over the life of the operating Our Controls Frameworks are continuously improved and enhanced, plan.
Information regarding the main features of the internal control addressing known issues and keeping pace with the dynamic and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting environment.
Progress continues to be made in IT, Cyber, and process is provided within the risk management report on pages 116 Financial Crime.
The 2016 CER assessment provides reasonable to 169.
The Board concluded that the Groups risk management assurance that the Group's controls are effective or that where arrangements are adequate to provide assurance that the risk control weaknesses are identified, they are subject to management management systems put in place are suitable with regard to the oversight and action plans.
The Audit Committee, in conjunction Groups profile and strategy.
with the Board Risk Committee, concluded that the assessment Control effectiveness review process was effective and recommended them to the Board forapproval.
An annual control effectiveness review CER is undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups control framework with regard to its material risks, and to ensure management actions are REMUNERATION The statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Directors Remuneration policy and the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report are set out on pages 84 to 114. matters of non-compliance.
In addition, the process provides Spotlight on subsidiary governance continued focus on simplification of the Groups legal entity The Group conducts the majority of its business through structure through consideration of the lifecycle of each entity.
The Corporate Governance Scottish Widows Group Limited Framework sets out minimum governance standards and The Board of the Groups insurance subsidiary, Scottish Widows asubsidiary directors handbook sets out detailed guidance Group Limited, which also sits as the Board of its major onthe role and responsibilities of a subsidiary director.
subsidiaries, is chaired by a Non-Executive member of the Lloyds An annual certification process, at individual entity level, of Banking Group Board and contains a balance of independent compliance with the minimum governance standards set out in Non-Executive Directors, Group executives serving as Nonthe Corporate Governance Framework enhances management Executives and Insurance Division executives.
This composition ofany legal, regulatory and reputational risks associated with the supports its legal and regulatory requirements for independent Groups subsidiary entities.
The process provides GEC members decision making withinthe overall framework of Group policies with additional oversight of subsidiary entities within their and controls.
respective business area, including an escalation process for any 67 Governance Corporate governance report continued SHAREHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS 2016 RELATIONSHIP PROGRAMME The Board recognises and values greatly the need to deliver aprogramme of engagement that offers all shareholders the opportunity to receive Company communications and to share theirviews with the Board.
JANUARY The Group has a diverse range of shareholders and investors TO MARCH withdifferent communication and engagement needs which Preliminary results areaddressed by specialist teams.
Analyst briefings The Groups website enables access to documents and communications as soon as they are published, including a Mailing of Annual Report and livewebcast of the AGM.
Recordings of webcasts and other Accounts, which includes an analystpresentations are also available.
update from the Group Chief Executive Relationships with institutional investors Notice of AGM and voting Investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing and materials developing the Groups external relationships with existing and potential institutional equity investors and analysts.
With support from senior management, they achieved this through a combination of more than 1,100 meetings and various presentations in 2016.
The presentations were primarily aligned to results and included content APRIL TO JUNE on strategic progress and financial and operational performance.
Q1 interim management In addition to this direct shareholder engagement, Investor Relations statement provides regular reports to the executive team and Board on key Annual General Meeting market issues and shareholder concerns.
Corporate governance meeting with JULY institutional shareholders TO SEPTEMBER In October 2016, the Chairman hosted a meeting with a number of large  focused on the Groups corporate Half year results governance arrangements.
Following an overview from the Analyst briefings Chairman on the Groups strategy and culture and Board Group Chief Executive governance, the shareholders heard from each of the Chairmen half-year update to oftheAudit, Board Risk, Remuneration and Responsible Business shareholders Committees and the Senior Independent Director.
The meeting wasalso attended by the Company Secretary and the Group Investor Relations Director.
The meeting was structured to allow foran open dialogue and discussion on the matters of importance OCTOBER to institutional shareholders.
Those in attendance were especially interested in hearing about the Groups approach to becoming a TO DECEMBER more responsible business.
Q3 interim management statement Governance and executive remuneration Corporate governance meeting Lord Blackwell Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination with institutional shareholders and Governance Committee and Anita Frew Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee participated in meetings and discussions with investors and other stakeholders, A summary of the reports and communications to be issued including the Groups regulators, regarding governance and the in 2017 canbe found on page 286. strategic direction of the Group.
They also engaged withproxy advisors, regulators and shareholders on issues relating specifically to executive remuneration.
Relationships with retail shareholders The Company Secretary has a team dedicated to engage with retail shareholders who, with support from the Company's registrar Equiniti Limited, deliver the Groups shareholder service strategy, including the AGM.
Group Secretariat provides feedback to the Board and appropriate Committees to ensure the views of retail shareholders are received and considered.
Important shareholder information, including details on the arrangements for the 2017 Statement of compliance AGM, can be found on pages 286 and 287.
UK Corporate Governance Code - The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the 'Code' applied to the 2016 Annual General Meeting 2016 at a glance financial year.
The Group confirms that it applied the main The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to hear directly from principles and complied with all provisions of the Code the Board on the Groups performance and strategic direction, throughout the year, and that it has applied the UK Corporate andimportantly, to ask questions.
Governance Code 2016 since its financial year end.
The Code nearly 200 shareholders represented ispublicly available at www.
uk over 70 per cent of total voting rights voted The British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting over 97 per cent of votes cast in favour of the Directors Disclosure - The Group has adopted the British Bankers Remuneration Report Associations Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2016 financial statements have been prepared in compliance all resolutions voted on by way of a poll with its principles.
68 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Committee meetings NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE Eligible to attend Attended COMMITTEE REPORT Committee Chairman Lord Blackwell 5 5 Committee members who served during 2016 Alan Dickinson 5 5 Anita Frew 5 5 1 Nick Luff 5 4 Anthony Watson 5 5 1 Mr Luff was unable to attend the February Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, designed to ensure rigour in the Boards discussions and decision making Director, make her ideally suited to take on this role.
On the Dear Shareholder Committees recommendation, the Board has appointed Simon A key priority for the Committee, under my leadership, is to keep Henry to succeed Nick as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
the composition of the Board and its Committees under review Simon has been a member of the Audit Committee since June and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
There 2014 and his background and experience enable him to fulfil the were two changes to the Board in 2016.
Stuart Sinclair joined the role of Audit Committee Chairman and for SEC purposes the role Board in January 2016 and Dyfrig John retired from the Board in of Audit Committee financial expert.
Stuarts appointment followed that of Deborah The Committee will continue to keep under review the structure, McWhinney, who joined the Board in December 2015. size and composition of the Board and its Committees and to As set out earlier in the report, a number of Board changes have make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
been agreed since the year end.
Anthony Watson, our Senior Another important role for the Committee is ensuring the Independent Director, will retire at the 2017 AGM after serving adequacy of succession planning, including contingency more than eight years on the Board, and Nick Luff, an arrangements, both for Board appointments and key senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit management roles.
An in-depth review was conducted during the Committee, has notified the Board that in light of his other year of the Groups talent management approach and succession commitments he does not intend to seek re-election at the 2017 pipeline and this will continue to be a focus during 2017.
On the Committees recommendation, the Board has appointed Anita Frew to succeed Anthony as Senior Independent Lord Blackwell Director, which she will combine with the role of Deputy Chairman, Nomination and Governance Committee Chairman.
Anitas significant board, financial and investment management experience, including as a Senior Independent Committee purpose and responsibilities Annual effectiveness review The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Boards governance, During the year, the Committee met its key objectives and carried composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual succession arrangements under review and to make appropriate effectiveness review.
recommendations to the Board to ensure the Companys How Committee meetings are run arrangements are consistent with the highest corporate governancestandards.
The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis on which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on page 62.
The Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its Its structure facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all of to ensure adequate time for members of the Committee to consider which have been accepted during the year.
The Committees terms proposals which are put forward.
of reference can be found at www.
com our-group corporate-governance Matters considered by the Committee During the year the Committee considered a number of issues Committee composition, skills and experience relating to the Groups governance arrangements, both internal To ensure a broad representation of experienced and independent and external.
It assisted the Chairman in keeping the composition Directors, membership of the Committee comprises the Chairman, of the Board and its Committees under review and to lead the the Deputy Chairman, who is also the Chairman of the appointment process for nominations to the Board.
Remuneration Committee, the Senior Independent Director, theChairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the These issues are summarised on the next page.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings asappropriate.
69 Governance Corporate governance report continued How the Nomination and Governance Committee spent its time in 2016 KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION Board and Committee size During the year the Committee, led by the Chairman, continued to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
and composition The Board should be of sufficient size to reflect a broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all Directors to participate effectively in meetings.
The Board currently comprises three Executive Directors, nineindependent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was independent on appointment.
Details of Board changes are set out on page 52.
Succession planning The Committee, led by the Chairman, continued to keep the adequacy of succession arrangements under review to ensure the desired mix of skills and experience of Board members now and in the future.
Full details of the Groups approach to succession planning can be found on the next page.
Diversity policy The Committee reviewed the Board Diversity Policy in light of new and emerging best practice and recommended to the Board a specific target to maintain at least three female Board members and to take opportunities to increase the number of female Board members over time.
The Board Diversity Policy is set out below.
Effectiveness The Committee oversaw the annual evaluations of the performance of the Board and its Committees.
In January 2016, the Committee reviewed the findings of the 2015 Board Effectiveness Review and recommended actions to the Board to address the areas identified for improvement.
Progress against the plan was reviewed during the year.
In preparation for the 2016 Board Effectiveness Review, the Committee made recommendations to the Board on the process and timing of the review, which was carried out internally by the Company Secretary.
Full details of the 2016 Board Effectiveness Review together with details of the progress against the 2015 review actions are set out on page 66.
Corporate governance In 2016, the Committee: oversaw the annual review of the Corporate Governance Framework, including the amendments necessary toaccommodate the SM&CR and recommended it to the Board forapproval received regular corporate governance updates from the Company Secretary recommended to the Board a revised share dealing policy for Directors and GEC in light of the new Market Abuse Regulation reviewed reports from the Chairman on communications from shareholders received updates on the SM&CR approved the appointment of Trustees to the Banks Foundations received updates on ring-fencing governance Independence and time In assessing independence, the Committee did not rely solely on the Code criteria but considered whether, in fact, commitments the Non-Executive Director was demonstrably independent and free of relationships and other circumstances that could affect their judgement.
It did this with reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
It also took account of any relationships that had been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based on its assessment for 2016, the Committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors remained independent as to both character and judgement.
The Committee reviewed the role, including capabilities and time commitment, of the Chairman, DeputyChairman, Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive and Executive Directors and found them to be appropriate.
Board Diversity Policy The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects diversity in its broadest sense.
A combination of demographics, skills, experience and personal attributes on the Board is important in providing a range of perspectives, insights and challenge needed to support good decision making.
New appointments are made on merit, taking account of the specific skills and experience needed to ensure a rounded Board and the diversity benefits each candidate can bring to the overall Board composition.
On gender diversity the Board has a specific target to maintain at least three female Board members and, recognising the emerging target for FTSE companies to move towards 33 per cent female representation, to take opportunities to increase the number of female Board members over time where that is consistent with other skills anddiversity requirements.
The Board also places high emphasis on ensuring the development of diversity in the senior management roles within the Group and supports and oversees the Groups objective of achieving 40 per cent of senior roles held by female executives by 2020, along with other metrics which promote the engagement of other underrepresented groups within the business.
This is underpinned by a range of policies within the Group to help provide mentoring and development opportunities for female executives and to ensure unbiasedcareer progression opportunities.
Progress on this objective is monitored by the Board and built into its assessment of executiveperformance.
You can read more on the Groups diversity programmes, including details of the Groups commitment to raise the percentage of women employed in senior management roles to 40 per cent by 2020 on page 18 of the strategic report.
A copy of the Board Diversity Policy is available on our website at www.
com our-group responsible-business and information on Board diversity can be found on page 54.
Female representation on the Board iscurrently 23 per cent based on three female directors and 10 male directors.
70 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our approach to succession planning Senior management succession During the year, the Committee, led by the Chairman, also reviewed Good succession planning contributes to the delivery of the Groups the succession plans for the Group Chief Executive and other key strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and experience of senior management roles.
Board members now and in the future.
The Board is also committed to recognising and nurturing talent within executive and The Committees review was shaped by an in-depth review and management levels across the Group to ensure the Group creates broader discussion by the Non-Executive Directors of the Groups opportunities to develop current and future leaders.
The role of talent management approach and succession pipeline for key senior succession planning in promoting diversity is recognised and the executive roles.
This annual talent review allows the Board to Group has a range of policies which promote the engagement of identify talent and ensure the Group has the right succession plans underrepresented groups within the business in order to build a and development programmes in place.
The review noted the work diverse talent pipeline.
done to strengthen the approach to talent and development during the year, including the extension of the annual talent review Board size and composition programme and improved tracking and review of succession plans.
Under the leadership of the Chairman, the Committee continued to There was recognition of the further work to be done to continue to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board increase the diversity of the succession pipeline.
The robustness of and its Committees.
At the core of the process is an ongoing the succession plans for the Group Chief Executive and other key assessment led by the Chairman of the collective Boards technical senior management roles in terms of contingency arrangements and governance skill set.
From this the Chairman creates a board and over the medium to longer term were also reviewed.
skills matrix which the Committee uses to track the Boards strengths andidentify gaps in the desired collective skills profile ofBoard members, giving due weight to diversity in its broadest sense.
Recommendations are made to the Board as appropriate.
BOARD INDUCTION Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair share their insights Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair who joined the Board in December 2015 and January 2016 respectively, share their insights on their induction and first year on the Board How did the induction programme help you How will you reflect on your first year prepare for your role on the Board?
Deborah Deborah I found the programme very well structured and comprehensive.
I have extensive experience in managing IT operations and digital There was a good mix of formal presentations and more informal innovations.
I was therefore delighted to be asked to join the new sessions.
It really brought the business and its issues alive for me sub-committee of the Board Risk Committee, solely focusing on and, having spent my career in the United States, the tailored and IT resilience and cyber security, bringing an independence of in-depth overview of the UK regulatory landscape was especially judgement and challenge to Board discussions.
What also struck me during my first year is the very genuine Colleagues were always very open and willing to spend time commitment to diversity in its broadest sense.
There is a real with me to ensure my questions were fully answered.
The level understanding that diversity is more than gender, its a frame ofopenness within the senior management team is reflective ofmind that helps bring diversity of thought to Board debate oftheGroups wider culture.
I support the Groups diversity programmes through mentoring women in senior roles and by speaking atdiversity events.
Stuart Stuart I have been through quite a few inductions over the years and I have really enjoyed my first year on the Board because the what was especially effective about the Groups induction was Group to me was a mixture of relatively familiar topics such as themixture of highly structured overviews on key topics such retail network analysis, product testing, capital models and ascapital, liquidity and conduct, together with self-selected conduct requirements and newer topics such as ring-fencing.
Attending functions, conferences, Board and Committee meetings are open, fact-based and product forums, customer focus groups and branches provided collegiate in the best sense: on any given topic there will valuable context too.
typicallybe both experts and generalists.
The Board culture At all times colleagues were welcoming and never failed to find works to draw all Directors into the subject, allowing for answers to my questions.
As a newly appointed Non-Executive appropriate consideration and challenge from many angles, Director, I felt that a go anywhere, ask anything culture which enables an appropriate decision to be reached.
71 Governance Corporate governance report continued Committee meetings AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Eligible to attend Attended Audit Committee Report Committee Chairman Nick Luff 8 8 Committee members who served during 2016 Alan Dickinson 8 8 Anita Frew 8 8 1 Simon Henry 8 4 Deborah McWhinney 8 8 2 Nick Prettejohn 8 7 Anthony Watson 8 8 1 Mr Henry was unable to attend Audit Committee meetings in January, July, October and December due to prior executive commitments.
Mr Henry will succeed Mr Luff as Audit Committee Chairman following Mr Luffs retirement at the AGM in May 2017.
Prior to taking on the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee, Mr Henry is retiring as Chief Financial Officer of Royal Dutch Shell plc in March 2017.
It is the Audit Committees job to review 2 Mr Prettejohn was unable to attend the June Audit Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
the integrity of the financial statements and the effectiveness of the internal and external auditor.
The Audit Committee has delivered on its responsibilities Dear Shareholder The Committee also considered other areas of significant Throughout 2016, the Audit Committee has continued to focus on judgement that were relevant to the financial statements.
These its key objectives, overseeing financial reporting, internal controls, included other conduct provisions, loan impairments, tax matters, whistleblowing, and internal and external audit.
actuarial assumptions for insurance and pension accounting, and Overseeing financial reporting requires an assessment of key the appropriate classification of gilts held by the Group for accounting judgements and related disclosures.
The cost of liquidity purposes.
Further details are set out in this report.
redress relating to Payment Protection Insurance PPI has been The transformation of the internal audit function has also been substantial, and accounting provisions for this cost remain the afocus for the Committee.
This has included reviewing the scope most significant judgement made in drawing up the Groups and direction of internal audits work, overseeing changes to the financial statements.
leadership of the function, supporting independence of audit, Estimates of the cost have changed as complaint trends and and encouraging improved reporting of audit findings.
The regulatory factors have evolved.
The Committee has reviewed Committee has also monitored the effectiveness of the external these estimates, and challenged the assumptions behind them, audit as the new lead audit partner was introduced.
as well as ensuring that appropriate disclosures have been made to explain the uncertainties that remain.
Nick Luff Chairman, Audit Committee sector.
Nick Luff is a Chartered Accountant and has significant Committee purpose and responsibilities financial experience in the UK listed environment enabling him to The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the Groups fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chairman, for the purposes of the financial and narrative reporting arrangements, the effectiveness UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as a member having ofthe internal controls over financial reporting and the risk recent and relevant financial experience, and for SEC purposes, the management framework, whistleblowing arrangements and role of Audit Committee financial expert.
In addition, Simon Henry is each of the internal and external audit processes.
a Chartered Global Management Accountant and has extensive The Audit Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges knowledge of financial markets, treasury and risk management, and itsresponsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, also qualifies as a member having recent and relevant financial all of which have been accepted during the year.
A full list of experience under the Code and an Audit Committee financial responsibilities is detailed in the Committees terms of reference, expert under SEC rules.
com our-group How Committee meetings are run corporate-governance The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis on Committee composition, skills and experience which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on page 62.
The Committee acts independently of the executive to ensure that Its structure facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken the interests of the shareholders are properly protected in relation to ensure adequate time for members of the Committee to consider to financial reporting and internal control.
proposals which are put forward.
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive During the course of the year, the Committee held separate Directors with competence in the financial sector with the sessions with the internal and external audit teams, without Committee as a whole having competence relevant to the financial members of the executive management present.
72 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Based on the outcome of the annual board effectiveness review During the year the Committee considered a number of issues in2015 additional training for Committee members has been relating to the Groups financial reporting, these issues are introduced.
Targeted training on risk weighted assets, derivative summarised below, including discussion of the conclusions accounting, IFRS9 and insurance accounting has been provided.
theCommittee reached, and the key factors considered by This years annual effectiveness review confirmed the Committee theCommittee in reaching its conclusions.
met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively.
In addition, the Committee considered a number of other significant Whilst the Committees membership comprises the Non-Executive issues not related directly to financial reporting, including internal Directors noted above, all Non-Executive Directors may attend controls, internal audit and external audit.
These issues are also meetings as agreed with the Chairman of the Committee.
The discussed in detail in the next section, including insight into the key Interim Group Audit Director, the external auditor, the Group Chief factors considered by the Committee in reaching its conclusions.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer also attend meetings of the Committee as appropriate.
Matters considered by the Committee How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2016 Financial reporting During the year, the Committee considered the following significant financial issues in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management, Group Audit and the external auditor: KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION Payment Protection Insurance PPI The Committee continued to challenge the assumptions made by management to determine the provision for PPI redress and administration costs.
The Committee oversaw continued use In determining the adequacy of the ofsensitivities reflecting the uncertainty that remains around the ultimate cost of PPI redress.
provision for redress payments and The Committee also reviewed managements assessment of the potential impact of a administration costs in connection with the consultation paper by the Financial Conduct Authority which set a proposed deadline of June mis-selling of PPI the Group makes a number 2019 for consumers to make their PPI complaints and on the potential impact of the Plevin case.
of assumptions based on management Group Audit undertook periodic agreed upon procedures over the process used by judgement.
Such assumptions include the number of future complaints that will be management to calculate the PPI provision.
Procedures undertaken were designed to identify the use of reasonable, consistent and supportable assumptions and inputs.
No items were raised received and the extent to which they will beupheld: average redress payments: and by exception for consideration by the Committee.
The Committee concluded that the provision for PPI redress and the Groups external disclosures were appropriate.
During the year the Group provided a further 1,000 million to cover further The disclosures relating to PPI are set out in note 38: Other provisions on page 230 of the operating costs and redress, including the financialstatements.
impact of a proposed June 2019 deadline.
To 31December 2016, the Group has provided a total of 17,025 million in respect ofPPI mis-selling redress and administrationcosts.
Other conduct provisions For packaged bank accounts, the Committee has continued to monitor the utilisation of the provision and managements assessment of both the remaining exposure and the additional The Group has also made provisions provisions required.
This has included reviewing the expected level of complaints and the totalling 1,085 million in respect of other average redress payments.
conduct matters, including 280 million The Committee has understood the basis for determining the provision in respect of the Groups for packaged back accounts and secured and unsecured arrears handling activities.
The provision includes the cost of both 261 million for secured and unsecured identifying and rectifying the customers affected.
Group Audit undertook periodic agreed upon procedures over the process that has been used by management to calculate the extent of conduct related provisions.
Noitems were raised by exception for consideration by the Committee.
The Committee was satisfied that the provisions for other conduct matters were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to other conduct provisions are set out in note 38: Other provisions onpage 230 ofthe financial statements.
Allowance for impairment losses on The Committee challenged the level of provisions made and the assumptions used to calculate the impairment provisions held by the Group.
loans and receivables Group Audit has provided assurance to the Audit Committee that the impairment governance Determining the appropriateness of processes are effective.
impairment losses requires the Group to The Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
The disclosures make assumptions based on management relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 52: Financial risk management on page 261 judgement.
73 Governance Corporate governance report continued KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION Recoverability of the deferred tax asset The Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets, in particular the forecast taxable profits based on the Groups operating plan, the split of these forecasts by legal entity A deferred tax asset can be recognised and the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
only to the extent that it is recoverable.
The Committee agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax assets were The recoverability of the deferred tax appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits, taking into account the Groups long-term asset in respect of carry forward losses financial and strategic plans.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax are set out in note 37: requires consideration of the future levels Deferred tax on page 228 of the financial statements.
of taxable profit in the Group.
Uncertain tax positions The Committee took account of the respective views of both management and the relevant tax authorities when considering the uncertain tax positions of the Group.
The Committee also The Group has open tax matters which understood the external advice obtained by management to support the views taken.
require it to make judgements about the The Committee was satisfied that the provisions and disclosures made in respect of uncertain most likely outcome for the purposes of tax positions were appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 48: Contingent calculating its tax position.
liabilities andcommitments on page 242 of the financial statements.
Retirement benefit obligations The Committee considered the financial and demographic assumptions used to determine the defined benefit liabilities, in particular mortality assumptions and the discount rate, which have The Group must make both financial been updated to reflect recent experience.
and demographic assumptions of a The Committee was also satisfied that the Groups quantitative and qualitative disclosures made judgemental nature to determine the inrespect of retirement benefit obligations are appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out value of the defined benefit obligation.
innote 36: Retirement benefit obligations on page 222 of the financial statements.
Value-In-Force VIF asset and The Committee challenged the economic and non-economic actuarial assumptions made by management which underpin the calculation of the VIF asset and the insurance liabilities.
The insurance liabilities Committee also reviewed the movements in the key assumptions since 31 December 2015.
Determining the value of the VIF asset and insurance liabilities is judgemental and The Committee was satisfied that the value of the VIF asset and insurance liabilities were requires economic and non-economic appropriate.
The disclosures are set out in note24: Value of in-force business on page 213 and actuarial assumptions.
note32: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts on page 217 of the financialstatements.
Reclassification of gilts held within the During the year, the Group reclassified approximately 20 billion of gilts within the liquidity portfolio as available-for-sale: the gilts were previously classified as held-to-maturity.
liquidity portfolio The Committee considered and was satisfied with managements assessment Determining the appropriate accounting of the circumstances which support the reclassification of the gilts, the appropriateness treatment for gilts held within the liquidity of the accounting treatment and related disclosure.
The disclosure is set out in note 49: Financial instruments on page 245 of the financial statements.
One-off transactions The sale of Visa Europe is one example of one-off transactions considered by the Audit Committee during the year.
Determining the appropriate accounting The Committee was satisfied that the accounting treatment of the sale was appropriate.
for certain one-off transactions requires management to assess the facts and circumstances specific to each transaction.
Viability statement The Committee assisted the Board in performing its assessment of the viability of the Company and the Group with input from management.
The viability assessment, which was based on the The Directors are required to confirm Groups operating, capital and funding plans, included consideration of the principal and whether they have a reasonable emerging risks which could impact the performance of the Group, and the liquidity and capital expectation that the Company and the projections over theperiod.
Group will be able to continue to operate The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement could be provided and advised the and meet their liabilities as they fall due Board that three years was a suitable period of review.
The viability statement must also disclose the basis for The viability statement is disclosed on page 82 of the Directors report.
Directors conclusions and explain why the period chosen is appropriate.
74 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Other significant issues External auditor The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor.
The following matters were also considered by the Committee: During the year, the Committee considered the auditors terms of Risk management and internal control systems engagement including remuneration, their independence and Full details of the internal control and risk management systems in objectivity and approved the audit plan including methodology relation to the financial reporting process are given within the risk and risk identification processes.
management section on pages 116 to 169.
Specific matters that the In accordance with regulations there was a change of lead Committee considered during the year included: auditpartner.
the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial reporting The Committee also considered the effectiveness and performance and risk management: of the auditor and the audit process.
the extent of the work undertaken by the Finance teams across These assessments considered data and information from a number theGroup and consideration of the resources to ensure that the of sources including: control environment continued to operate effectively: the results of an internal effectiveness survey: and the major findings of internal investigations into control weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements response the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection Report AQIR on PwC along with any control deficiencies identified through the published in May 2016. assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls over The Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the auditors financial reporting under the US SarbanesOxley Act.
performance and recommended to the Board a proposal The Committee was satisfied that internal controls over financial for the reappointment of the auditor, to be approved at the reporting were appropriately designed and operating effectively.
Group Audit Statutory Audit Services compliance In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the internal The Company and the Group confirm compliance with the audit function and their audit programme the Committee: provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender monitored the effectiveness of Group Audit and their audit Processes andAudit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 programme through quarterly reports on the activities undertaken forthe year to31December 2016. and a report from the Quality Assurance function within GroupAudit: PwC have been auditor to the company and the Group since 1995, having previously been auditor to certain of the Groups constituent approved the annual audit plan and budget and reviewed companies.
PwC were re-appointed as auditor with effect from progress against the plan through the year: 1January 2016 following a tender process conducted during 2014. oversaw the process for the appointment of an Interim Group There will be a mandatory rotation for the 2021 audit, if not earlier.
Audit Director: and considered the major findings of significant internal audits, and managements response.
Speak Up the Groups whistleblowing service The Committee received and considered reports from management on the Groups whistleblowing arrangements including summaries of cases and ongoing reviews of the Whistleblowing Governance Structure.
On consideration of the reports submitted, the Committee was satisfied with the actions which had been taken, the report first having been considered and approved by the Boards Whistleblowing Champion, Anita Frew.
Auditor independence and remuneration Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In 2016 the Audit Committee approved an amended policy to regulate the use of the auditor for non-audit services to ensure compliance with the revised Ethical Standards for Auditors from the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
In order to ensure the objectivity and independence of the externalauditor, the policy sets a financial threshold above which allnon-audit services provided by the external auditor must be approved in advance by the Committee, with additional provision made for the approval of non-material services which are below the threshold by certain members of senior management.
The policy further formalises within the Group the restriction on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor which the FRC consider to be prohibited.
The total amount of fees paid to the auditor for both audit and non audit related services in 2016 is disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements on page 201.
75 Governance Corporate governance report continued Committee meetings BOARD RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Eligible to attend Attended Committee Chairman Alan Dickinson 8 8 Committee members who served during 2016 Lord Blackwell 8 8 Anita Frew 8 8 1 Simon Henry 8 7 2 Nick Luff 8 7 Deborah McWhinney 8 8 Nick Prettejohn 8 8 Stuart Sinclair 8 8 Anthony Watson 8 8 Sara Weller 8 8 The Committee has continued to take Former Committee members who served during 2016 adynamic approach to the consideration 3 Dyfrig John 4 4 of existing and emerging risks 1 Mr Henry was unable to attend the May Risk Committee meeting due to prior executive commitments.
2 Mr Luff was unable to attend the July Risk Committee meeting due to prior executive commitments.
3 Mr John retired on 11 May 2016. lending portfolios within both the Mortgage and Commercial Dear Shareholder businesses.
The Committee will continue to review progress I am pleased to report on how the Board Risk Committee has and developments during 2017. discharged its responsibilities throughout 2016.
The Group continues to operate in an environment subject to The Committee has continued to take a dynamic approach to the considerable change and, during 2016, another key area of consideration of existing and emerging risks, through a balanced activity for the Committee has been the proactive review, agenda which included standing areas of risk management, oversight and management of risks arising from the outcome of together with specific focus on emerging risks focusing significant the EU referendum and wider geo-political risks.
The Committee additional resource where considered necessary.
An example of will continue to monitor developments and any impact on the this has been the establishment of dedicated sub-committees to Groups risk profile.
further enhance focus on particular areas, such as IT resilience and cyber security, enabling members of the Committee to direct The Committee has concluded, through its detailed work, that the Group continues to have strong discipline in the management more time to better understand, and challenge, the associated risks and actions being taken by management.
of both emerging and existing risks, and the Committees work continues to help support the Group in achieving its core aim of The Committee has continued to build upon the progress operating as a safe, low risk bank.
reported last year around furthering the understanding of complex risks and seeking to enhance risk management.
I am Alan Dickinson pleased to report that good progress continued to be made throughout 2016 in reducing risks across the Groups material Chairman, Board Risk Committee Committee purpose and responsibilities Committee composition, skills and experience The purpose of the Board Risk Committee is to review the risk Alan Dickinson, Chairman of the Committee, is a highly regarded retail culture of the Group, setting the tone from the top in respect of risk and commercial banker, having spent 37 years with the Royal Bank management.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring the of Scotland, most notably as Chief Executive of RBS UK, overseeing risk culture is fully embedded and supports at all times the Groups the groups Retail and Commercial operations in the UK.
The agreed risk appetite, covering the extent and categories of risk which Committee is composed of independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board considers as acceptable for the Company.
who provide core banking and risk knowledge, together with breadth of experience which brings knowledge from other sectors, and a clear In seeking to achieve this, the Committee assumes responsibility awareness of the importance of putting the customer at the centre of for monitoring the Groups Risk Management Framework, which all that the Groupdoes.
embraces risk principles, policies, methodologies, systems, processes, procedures and people.
It also includes the review of new, or material Since January 2016, all Non-Executive Directors have been members amendments to risk principles and polices, and overseeing any action of the Board Risk Committee.
The Chief Risk Officer has full access resulting from material breaches of such policy.
to the Committee and attends all meetings.
The Interim Group AuditDirector and members of the Executive also attend meetings More details on the Groups wider approach to risk management asappropriate.
can be found in the risk management section on pages 116 to 169.
Full details of the Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms During the year the Committee met its key objectives and carried of reference, which can be found at www.
com out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual our-group corporate-governance effectivenessreview.
76 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How Committee meetings are run Matters considered by the Committee The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis on Over the course of the year the Committee considered a wide range which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on page 62, of risks facing the Group, both standing and emerging, across all key with a structure which facilitates open discussion and debate.
Steps areas of risk management, in addition to risk culture and risk appetite, are taken to ensure adequate time for members to consider proposals as noted above.
As part of this review, certain risks were identified which required further detailed consideration.
Set out below is a summary of these As the most senior risk forum in the Group, the Committee interacts risks, with an outline of the material factors considered by the with other related risk forums, including the Executive Group Risk Committee, and the conclusions which were ultimately reached.
Such interaction assists with the agenda planning process, where in addition to annual agenda planning, matters In addition, during 2016, two further sub-committees of the Board considered by the Group Risk Committee are reviewed to ensure Risk Committee were established to focus on Financial Markets and IT escalation of all relevant matters to the Board Risk Committee.
Resilience & Cyber, in addition to an existing Stress Testing & Recovery Planning sub-committee.
The sub-committees were constituted to enable members of the Board Risk Committee to dedicate additional time and resource to better understand and to enable fuller review and challenge of the risks associated with the topic of the sub-committee.
KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION EU referendum As a result of the referendum outcome and to manage the impact of uncertainty caused by the The Committee regularly reviewed a range referendum process and ensuing economic concerns, detailed EU exit portfolio assessments were of lead economic and Key Performance undertaken to understand potential impacts on the Banks credit risk profile and to assess the Indicators across the portfolios, to help potential need for any changes to Group risk appetite.
Additional regular monitoring of internal and identify any early signs of deterioration external early warning and key performance indicators was instigated and continues to be closely inthe economy and the Groups credit monitored by the Committee to track any adverse movement in the risk profile of the Retail and riskprofile.
Commercial portfolios, and to ensure that risk appetite remains appropriate.
Conclusion: Regular monitoring continues to assist the Committee in its assessment of the portfolios, with management continuing to take action to mitigate potential risks associated with the EU exit decision.
Key credit risks continue to be well managed through strong, effective risk management and risk appetite, including early identification and management of potential concern customers.
Cyber risk and IT resilience Given the dynamic nature and significance of IT and cyber risks the Committee has established A resilient IT environment is critical to a sub-committee to enable more in depth consideration of IT resilience and cyber risks.
During providing reliable services to customers and the year the sub-committee gave consideration to a wide range of issues including insider risk, enabling sustainable growth.
The dynamic cyber reverse stress testing, IT Resilience and Cyber Programme updates, cyber insurance and threat posed by cyber risk and the potential cloud technology.
Alongside this an advisory panel comprising external industry experts has been for external attacks on the integrity of established to provide the sub-committee with an external view of current and evolving industry electronic data or the availability of systems wide cyber security threats, challenges and developments.
are key risks for the Group and central area Conclusion: Much has been achieved in respect of IT resilience and cyber security initiatives and of focus for the Committee.
the focus given by the Committee during 2016 has raised awareness across the Group.
However, ITresilience and cyber security risk will remain a key area of focus for the Committee in 2017.
Conduct risk Throughout 2016, the Committee considered reports on the proactive identification and resolution The Committee continues to focus closely of conduct issues which have had an impact on customers.
The pace and quality of required on the Groups approach to conduct risk.
remediation received particular attention together with actions taken to address root cause analysis and the prevention of similar issues.
Consideration was also given to the conduct risks within the collections process for customers in arrears as well as customers in financial difficulties.
In addition the Committee considered developments in the Groups conduct culture as well as reports on complaints, conduct risk appetite metrics and product governance.
Conclusion: Whilst good progress has been made as a result of the Groups conduct strategy initiatives, continued improvement in the Groups conduct risk profile will remain a priority for the Group in 2017 and will continue to be a subject of focus for the Committee.
UK Secured and buy-to-let In reviewing the UK Secured portfolio, consideration was given to the quality of new lending, the Regular reviews were undertaken of credit performance of the portfolio, the risk adjusted returns, and the adequacy of impairment the risks associated with the UK Secured and capital provisions under both expected and stressed conditions.
The Committee specifically portfolio, including specifically the considered appetite for higher loan to value lending following the governments announcement buy-to-let segment.
to discontinue the Help to Buy 2 scheme.
Additionally, for the buy-to-let segment, the Committee reviewed managements plans to implement changes in response to the revised tax regime and additional regulatory requirements for underwriting.
Conclusion: The Groups mortgage portfolio remains well balanced, with overall debt to value ratios having improved and concentration risks reduced.
Management continues to take appropriate action to address the risks arising from these portfolios and the Committee will continue to review developments during the course of 2017.
77 Governance Corporate governance report continued KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION Data risk The Committee continued to focus attention on key data initiatives within the Group.
The Committee Data risk has been identified as a key focus considered a number of reports on data risk throughout 2016 covering, amongst other topics, within the Group to take into account the user access management, risk data aggregation and reporting and data privacy, all of which have growing importance of data as a means of impacts across the Group.
Additionally, regular reporting on data risk, as a distinct risk type, has been competitive advantage and to underpin key introduced in 2016 in recognition of the growing importance of data as an asset to the Group as well risk decision making and risk management.
as the forthcoming EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Conclusion: Improvement to risk data systems, governance and controls over the last two years have strengthened risk reporting, whilst there remains opportunity to develop further.
Data risk will remain a key area of focus for the Committee in 2017 in line with the growing importance of data as an asset to the Group and maturity of the Group Chief Data Office.
Residual value risk Given the increased uncertainty around used car prices in the current market environment, A review of the impact of used car prices consideration was given to the residual value risk associated with the Groups growing motor finance on the residual value risk of motor finance businesses and the impact of a range of possible scenarios for the future path of used car prices and businesses was undertaken.
Conclusion: The combination of pricing that reflects the future value of vehicles, and prudent provisioning, appropriately reflects potential risk.
The Committee introduced a new risk appetite limit to reflect planned business growth and manage the concentration of residual value risk.
The Committee will continue to monitor this throughout 2017.
Stress testing The Committee reviewed a diverse set of stress testing scenarios in 2016, including internally defined The review of stress testing exercises and moderate and severe economic downturns, reverse stress test events including a large scale cybertheir results continued to be a key area of attack and external scenarios set by the Bank of England and the European Banking Authority.
The assessment included a review of the resilience of the Group, including specific areas of focus such as credit risk as well as impacts on the Groups capital and liquidity positions.
An assessment ofthe impact on dividends and mitigating actions proposed by management in each scenario was also undertaken.
Conclusion: The Groups capital and liquidity positions remained above required minimums and the relevant risk appetite metric, with outcomes reflecting the ongoing fide-risking by the Group.
The implementation and assessment of robust and well managed stress testing arrangements will remain akey area of focus for the Committee in the coming year.
Model risk Assessment was made of the overall governance framework for models including scope, the The approach to model risk management, model landscape, the role of the Group Model Governance Committee and modelling standards.
including the Groups model governance Additionally, the Committee considered the Groups material models at Divisional level, including framework, material models and regulatory their purpose, design and how regular performance monitoring and validation ensure they requirements were reviewed.
remain fit-for-purpose and identify areas for improvement in an evolving regulatory environment.
The Committee also observed a structured reporting framework which facilitates good senior management awareness and escalation, when required.
Conclusion: The Groups management of model risk is robust with a strong control framework, consisting of specialist teams, regular performance monitoring, annual validation and appropriate escalation of issues.
Model risk will continue to be an area of focus for the Committee via regular reporting, including risk appetite measures.
Commercial Banking portfolios The Committee continued to provide oversight of the risks in the Commercial Banking portfolios via a regular update on the credit quality in key sectors such as Commercial Real Estate, Acquisition The Committee considered a range of regular and ad-hoc papers covering key Finance and SME as well as oversight of large single name exposures.
risks associated with the Commercial Additional topics covered in 2016 included country risk, the potential impact of the EU referendum, Banking portfolios.
areview of the exposure to European Banks and deep dives in to the oil and gas sector.
There was alsoincreased focus on the Financial Markets business and the associated traded market risk through anewly created sub-committee.
Conclusion: Regular and cyclical assessments of key portfolios has assisted the Committee in its oversight of risk management within Commercial Banking and any impact arising from both existing andemerging risks.
Management continues to take satisfactory action to mitigate and address risks and the Committee will continue to review core aspects of the Commercial Banking business during 2017.
78 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Committee meetings RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Eligible to attend Attended COMMITTEE REPORT Committee Chairman Sara Weller 5 5 Committee members who served during 2016 Lord Blackwell 5 5 1 Anita Frew 5 4 1 Ms Frew was unable to attend the Committee meeting in April 2016 due to a prior business commitment Being a responsible business is fundamental to our strategy.
We are proud that our colleagues support so many people, businesses and communities across the UK to achieve a better future through the work of our Helping Britain Prosper Plan Dear Shareholder I welcomed the opportunity during the year to get involved in I am pleased to present the second Responsible Business responsible business activities in different parts of the country, Committee report, following its establishment in July 2015. including taking part in a panel for the School for Social Responsible Business practices are fundamental building blocks Entrepreneurs more detail on page 80.
And I very much enjoyed of our strategy, and the Committee has made good progress in meeting the profoundly deaf founder of the Yumma Caf, a continuing to support the embedding of responsible business catering business aimed specifically at supporting deaf people.
This was a great example of how the personal experience which The Committee focuses its work on the three areas of People, drives many social entrepreneurs is making a significant Businesses and Communities.
At each meeting we explore in difference.
I would like to thank all those who attended our depth the progress made towards achieving the Group's meetings this year for their support.
purposeof helping Britain prosper, through becoming the best I would like to thank all the Board Directors and executives bank for customers.
whoattended and contributed to the Committee during the Key areas reviewed have been: work to deepen our year.
Most of all, I would like to recognise the tremendous customercentric culture: programmes to tackle disadvantage, contributionof our colleagues who have given their support including through our Foundations, our role in supporting UK topeople, businesses and communities across the country, businesses build for the future: and the development of the tohelpBritain prosper.
programme of skillsbased volunteering undertaken by colleagues across the Group.
Sara Weller The Committee is supported in its work by two businesswide Chairman, Responsible Business Committee committees which report to the Group Chief Executive: the Group Customer First Committee and the Responsible Business Management Committee.
Information on the work of these committees can be found on page 122.
Committee composition and effectiveness The operation of the Committee The membership of the Committee comprises Sara Weller, Committee meetings are managed in accordance with the principles independent NonExecutive Director Chairman of the Committee outlined on page 62 for the management of Board agendas and the Group Chairman and the Deputy Chairman.
These principles are intended to facilitate open debate and Directors are invited to attend the Committees meetings.
The Committee Chairman reviews the draft TheGroup Chief Executive attended two meetings in 2016. agenda regularly to ensure that adequate time is devoted to issues of Duringthe year, the Committee met its key objectives and interest to Committee members and that its key responsibilities are carriedout its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the addressed.
The Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board .
on the Committees work and presents the Helping Britain Prosper Plan to the Board for approval prior to publication.
79 Governance Corporate governance report continued How the Committee spent its time in 2016 HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER PLAN: The Committee has reviewed and discussed the following topics: THE COMMITTEE'S ROLE the development of the Groups responsible business strategy, with input from the Group Chief Executive The Committee is responsible for overseeing the design and development of the Helping Britain Prosper Plan, the the Groups approach to measuring stakeholder and customer trust against its peers in financial services and acknowledged measurement of performance against the Plan and the internal leaders in generating trust and external communication of the Plan.
the continuing development of the Groups culture programme, in conjunction with the Board APRIL 2016 the results of colleague surveys as they relate to the Groups Review of campaign for responsible business activities the2016 Plan and its impact the steps taken to identify vulnerable customers and to ensure the on colleague and Groups products and customer service approach take account of stakeholder engagement in their varying needs order to identify the initiatives in place to tackle financial disadvantage amongst opportunities to raise the customers and to promote financial and digital inclusion profile of the Plan and the activities which underpin it the work of the School for Social Entrepreneurs and the Schools Activity Programme JULY a report on the Groups charitable Foundations, and their planned Report on progress against future activities, from the Chief Executive of the Lloyds Bank the metrics in the 2015 16 Foundation for England and Wales Plan with updates from the Groups responsible and sustainable finance approach, divisional sponsors and including the creation of the Green Loan Initiative and the work review of outline approach being done to develop innovative solutions to meet the increasing to the 2016 17 Plan demand of customers for responsible lending products OCTOBER Responsible Business Committee and Detailed review of metrics external stakeholders and design of the 2016 17 Plan and outline of 2017 The members of the Committee have an ongoing dialogue with campaign keystakeholders with an interest in the Committees activities.
Committee members look forward to engaging with key DECEMBER stakeholders, including the independent Stakeholder Panel, in 2017.
Detailed consideration of an agreement on the metrics to include in the 2016 17 Plan to be presented to the Board JANUARY 2017 Final review of draft 2016 17 Plan before recommending to the Board for approval Sara Weller joined colleagues, representatives from the SSE Dartington school and a member of South Gloucestershire Council on a panel toselect the next cohort of Social Entrepreneurs.
Responsible business in action: School for Social Entrepreneurs The Lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland Social Entrepreneurs The panel membership comprised local colleagues, representatives programme is delivered through a partnership with the School for from the SSE Dartington school and a member of South Social Entrepreneurs and the Big Lottery.
The programme aims to Gloucestershire Council.
Each candidate pitches their social support 2,000 social entrepreneurs by 2020. business idea for three minutes before being interviewed by thepanel.
In July 2016, Sara Weller was asked to join a panel to select the nextcohort of 21 Social Entrepreneurs to secure a place on the The programme attracts a diverse array of applicants, ranging from programme.
This was an opportunity to understand how each of an artisan bakery providing employment opportunities for young the social entrepreneurs is supported through a 12 month package adults with learning difficulties to an artists' space dedicated to comprising a series of interactive learning sessions, a senior tackling problems of isolation through arts and creativity.
colleague from within Lloyds Bank to support them as they develop their social business, and a small grant.
