London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Report of the Risk Committee Stephen OConnor Chairman of the Risk Committee The Risk Committee members as at 31 December 2016 were Stephen OConnor, In order to avoid potential duplication of coverage and, more importantly, Paul Heiden and David Nish.
Stuart Lewis CRO Deutsche Bank AG and former to reduce the potential for non-coverage of important risk matters, by either the LSEG Non-Executive Director acts as an adviser to the Committee.
Audit or the Risk Committees, there is a cross membership of both chairmen of the Audit and of the Risk Committees.
This report is intended to give an overview of the role of the Risk Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight Priorities in the forthcoming year will involve the continued monitoring of responsibilities for risk management and the adequacy of the geopolitical risks including the development of the UKs negotiation of the terms systems of internal controls in place to mitigate key risks.
of its exit from the EU and review of associated LSEG risk mitigation plans.
It will also focus on risks associated with M&A activity.
The Committee will continue to review, on a rotational basis, the risk profile and execution risks of each of the During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Committee met three times.
Groups main lines of business and key legal entities.
The Committee will also In addition to its regular reviews of the Groups risk map, risk appetite, and continue to oversee the evolution of the Groups risk culture across the Group emerging risks, the Committee focused on: programmes to further align and and its subsidiaries to ensure the Board maintains effective risk management integrate the risk management framework across the Group and its subsidiaries, oversight and control.
specific geopolitical events and programmes to further enhance the Groups cyber security resilience.
In particular, the Committee oversaw the Groups preparations prior to the UK referendum on leaving the European Union EU, including the development of tactical plans to ensure operational resiliency through the resulting peaks in trading volumes and the review of management assessments of the projected impact on financial risks.
Stephen OConnor Chairman of the Risk Committee The Committee closely monitored the continued strengthening of the Group Risk 3 March 2017 Framework over the year including enhancements to the capture, management and mitigation of operational, financial and strategic risks, the embedding of the Groups risk culture framework that represents the foundation of the strong risk management capabilities within the Group, and the development of tools relating to the management of financial and strategic risks.
68 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Report of the Risk Committee Composition and responsibilities Reviewing the pension plan strategy including reviewing development of The Committee is chaired by Stephen OConnor who provides recent and relevant an enhanced framework for monitoring pension fund risk: financial and risk management experience developed during a career in a variety Overseeing adequacy of the counterparty limits and ad hoc counterparty of senior executive roles in the financial services industry.
In addition, the Board is credit risk analysis performed as required: satisfied that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
Reviewing detailed reports of the risk profiles of Group subsidiaries including The names, skill and experience of the members of the Risk Committee are the Information Services Division and LCH: provided on pages 54 55.
Monitoring compliance with the Group risk management procedures as described in the section on internal controls on page 59: The Committee maintains non-executive responsibility for high level risk-related matters and risk governance.
As part of its mandate, the Committee reviews the Receiving regular reports on the Groups preparations prior to the UK risk profile of the Group on a regular basis and comments on the adequacy of the referendum on leaving the European Union EU, and the development of processes in place to identify and report on key risks.
It also reviews the risk profile contingency arrangements: of the major Group subsidiaries division on an individual basis.
It advises the Reviewing the adequacy of the Business Continuity Management plans Board on the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy and keeps and management programme: under review the adequacy of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and its use in the decision-making process, which includes the review of parameters used Approving and recommending for approval of key risk policies and risk in the models and methodology adopted.
It sets the standards for the accurate committees terms of reference: and timely reporting of key risks and for certain risk types of critical importance, Monitoring the Executive performance report on risk culture awareness, such as technology, cyber security, business continuity and disaster recovery, transparency and accountability which is also shared with the Remuneration CCP operations, counterparty and reputation risks.
It also receives reports on Committee: and compliance with relevant regulatory requirements for each regulated entity of the Group.
Monitoring the roll out of the mandatory training programme on ethics, risks, controls and compliance.
Further details of who normally attends meetings and the Committees terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on an ongoing basis, Risk Management function are available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance The Risk Management function is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who oversees section of the Groups website at www.
com  aspects of risk management in the Group.
She reports to the Chief Executive group  .
Officer and, for independence purposes, to the Chairman of the Risk Committee.
The Committee approves the remit of the Risk Management function and ensures Activities it has adequate independence to perform its duty.
The Committee must be The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for consulted on the appointment or the dismissal of the Chief Risk Officer.
which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate meeting.
During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by: Providing robust reviews of principal risks: Reviewing risk exposures of the Company and emerging risks: Reviewing and recommending to the Board the Group Risk Appetite, including stress tests and challenging the scenario results: Overseeing the further development and implementation of the Companys Group-wide counterparty risk aggregation and monitoring of the VaR model: Monitoring the delivery of actions to manage risks within risk appetite: Reviewing the effectiveness programme in place to further align the risk management framework of the Group and its subsidiaries: Monitoring the FTSE Frank Russell Index business integration: Reviewing regulatory compliance reports and the actions in place to ensure ongoing compliance: Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of the internal controls in place to manage key risks including the review of managements assessment of information security, financial crime, cyber crime and data management risks as well as managements mitigating actions: Ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework and of the Risk function: 69
