London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Report of the Audit Committee Paul Heiden Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee members as at 31 December 2016 were: Paul Heiden Continued to monitor the status of the implementation of the new Group-wide Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Jacques Aigrain, David Nish and financial system throughout the year and satisfied itself that the project Stephen OConnor.
Baroness Sharon Bowles stepped down from the Committee remained on track to deliver a more efficient process for financial reporting and the Board on 26 April 2016.
Discussed the implications of the implementation of the new accounting standard IFRS 15 on revenue recognition for the Group IFRS 15 will become This report is intended to give an overview of the role of the effective in 2018 Audit Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities relating to the monitoring of the system of Reviewed the whistle-blowing arrangements of the Group and approved an internal control, the independence of the external auditors and updated whistle-blowing policy which was benchmarked against industry the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
It details the best practice activities, discussions and decisions that enabled the Audit Approved a new policy on services supplied by audit firms incorporating the new Committee to fulfil its objectives effectively during 2016. guidance from the Financial Reporting Council on independence and objectivity During the year, as part of its key priorities, the Committee: Priorities in the forthcoming year will include: Monitored the tax and accounting implications of the sale of the Investment Receiving assurance that the control environment remains robust to support Management division of the Frank Russell Company.
The Committee satisfied the continued growth and diversification of the Groups activities: including all itself that the Executives in charge were managing all the aspects of the major projects, as well as key processes such as business continuity planning transaction effectively and disaster recovery Received and discussed the external audit management letter from Ernst & Monitoring the progress of the integration of newly acquired businesses Young LLP EY.
The letter highlighted a number of areas for improvement, in particular regarding the formalisation and better documentation of some Monitoring the progress of the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse and its control activities.
These were noted by the Committee for follow-up potential impact on the financial disclosures of the Group Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors based on their Receiving early and continuous understanding of the impact of the Groups qualifications, expertise, resources, level of independence, execution of their acquisitions and divestitures on financial and tax accounting audit plan and the quality of their conclusions and recommendations.
On the Continuing to assess the impact of IFRS 15 and other developments in basis of their own interaction with EY and that of management, the Audit accounting standards particularly on the Groups revenue recognition policies Committee confirmed that the services provided by EY were appropriate and and the related implementation plans by Finance in compliance with relevant auditor independence and integrity rules Reviewed and discussed the financial disclosures and assurance work to support the prospectus disclosures in relation to the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse AG Discussed a number of internal audit reports during the year and satisfied itself that management action plans were in place to address the Paul Heiden recommended improvements within reasonable deadlines Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 March 2017 Approved the 2017 internal audit universe, internal audit plan and resources for the function.
The Committee also approved the updated internal audit charter Continued to monitor the alignment of the control environment of recent acquisitions with the Group internal control framework.
It satisfied itself that these acquisitions were being integrated according to plan and were meeting the financial objectives of the Group 64 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Report of the Audit Committee Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities in 2016 1.
Financial Reporting The Committee met six times during the year.
The Committee maintains The Committee recommends the financial statements of the Group to the Board, a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for which the Committee is including the annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary results announcements responsible are considered at the appropriate meeting.
The agenda for each and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, meeting was determined by the key events of the annual financial reporting reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements that they contain.
cycle, the risks identified by the Committee and the standing items under its terms of reference.
The following provides details on how the Committee 2.
Internal controls and Risk Management systems discharged its responsibilities during the year as set in its terms of reference: The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and Risk Management.
The Audit Committee makes Financial matters: recommendations to the Board regarding the effectiveness of the Groups With regards to financial matters, the Committee reviewed, discussed and internal control and Risk Management systems and recommends to the approved the half-year and full-year financial results.
It reviewed, discussed and Board the statements to be included in the Annual Report concerning internal approved key accounting judgements, the annual review for goodwill impairment controls and Risk Management in collaboration with the Risk Committee.
and managements view of commitments and contingencies and the adequacy of The Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Internal the proposed disclosures.
For more details on the main discussions and decisions Audit function, ensuring that it has adequate resources and appropriate access to reached by the Committee on financial matters see the section below entitled information to perform its function independently from Executive Management.
Significant matters impacting the financial statements and Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements.
External auditors The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor.
The Committee Internal controls: reviews and approves the annual audit plan, ensures that it is consistent with the The Committee continued to exercise disciplined oversight of the effectiveness Committees view of the scope of the audit engagement and reviews the findings of the Groups internal controls throughout the year.
It fulfilled its of the audit with the external auditor.
The Committee monitors and reviews the responsibilities by reviewing and discussing regular reports from the external objectivity and independence of the external auditors including the non-audit auditors, the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions as well as from activities performed by the auditors for the Group see the external auditors fees external experts, including: section below for more details.
The Committee ensures that the external audit Reports on compliance with the Code internal controls including services contract is put out to tender on a periodic basis in line with existing best whistleblowing at half year and year end practices the current external auditor was appointed in 2014 following a tender process overseen by the Audit Committee.
The Committee oversees the selection Quarterly updates on internal audit plans including internal control issues process for new auditors and if an auditor resigns the Committee investigates the raised and management actions to remedy the deficiencies issues leading to this and decides whether any action is required.
Annual Report on the performance of the Internal Audit Function 4.
Other matters The Committee obtained additional comfort by meeting with the Head of Internal Treasury Audit at each Audit Committee meeting without Executive Management present.
The Committee approves the taking of any actions which fall outside the Group Treasury Policy and considers material financing and treasury transactions The activities of the Committee related to internal controls enabled it to satisfy reserved for the Board ahead of review by the Board.
itself that the Internal Audit function is independent, objective and adequately staffed to perform its duties.
In addition the Committee relied on the assurance Whistleblowing and fraud process throughout the year to recommend to the full Board that it could report to The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise shareholders on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
The concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other Board statement can be found on pages 100 101. matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action.
Oversight of the external auditors: The Committee also reviews the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and for the The Committee assessed the independence and quality of the Groups external prevention of bribery.
auditors EY throughout the year.
It received interim reports from EY on the status of their plan and the results of their work.
The external auditors reports were Composition and meetings discussed at each Committee meeting and their views and opinions used to The Committee meets the requirements of the Code.
It is comprised of four challenge decisions by Group Finance.
In addition the Committee held separate independent Non-Executive Directors who all bring recent and relevant financial meetings with EY at each Committee meeting without management being present.
It is chaired by Paul Heiden who is a qualified chartered accountant with a career in a variety of senior finance roles.
The other members are Jacques Aigrain, The Committee approved the EY audit plan, the methodology used, the scope of the David Nish and Stephen OConnor.
The skills and experience of each Committee audits by location, the risks and areas of focus as well as the materiality threshold for member are provided in the Board of Directors section on pages 54 55. the Group and the threshold for reporting unadjusted audit differences.
The Group 1 materiality remained fixed as a percentage of Profit Before Tax PBT.
The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief Risk Officer and the external auditors are standing invitees The Committee reviewed the audit inspection by the UK Financial Reporting to all Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, various other members of Council FRC regarding the audit of the Group for the year ended 31 December management are invited from time to time to present specific matters relevant 2015 and noted the minor improvements proposed by EY for future audits.
The to the Committees remit.
Audit Committee satisfied itself that the matters raised do not give it concerns over the quality, objectivity or independence of the audit and believes that the Further details on the functioning and responsibilities of the Audit Committee can matters raised in the FRC inspection report have been appropriately addressed by be found in the Committees terms of reference which are reviewed annually and EY in the 2016 audit.
available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance section of the Groups website at: www.
65 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee discussed the updated FRC Guidance on Audit Committees In each case, the Audit Committee concluded, on the balance of risks, that the published in April 2016.
Starting from 1 January 2017 this guidance creates new appointment of EY to perform certain non-audit services represented the most requirements for the Audit Committee to preserve the independence and objectivity effective, secure and efficient way of obtaining the necessary advice and services, of the external auditor with respect to the provision of non-audit services.
given their knowledge of our business and the Groups structure and accounting and tax affairs, together with their wider knowledge of our industry sector.
The Committee has complied with the relevant parts of the Competition and Markets Authority Final Order on the statutory audit market for the year ended The policy on audit and non-audit services supplied by the auditors of the Group 31 December 2016. and of its subsidiaries is available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance section of the Groups website at: www.
com The lead audit partner is required to rotate every five years and other key audit   ethics-andpartners are required to rotate every seven years.
David Canning-Jones took over governance.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of EY as the Companys external auditor Other matters: for the year ending 31 December 2017 be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in As part of its regular annual activities the Committee assessed its own April 2017. effectiveness, and reviewed and updated its terms of reference to reflect the changes in the Group and the corporate governance context.
There were no major Report on external auditors fees and safeguards on non-audit services modifications to the functioning of the Committee resulting from these activities.
The Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services which is reviewed on an annual basis.
The policy Significant matters impacting the financial statements prohibits certain activities from being undertaken by the auditors.
The policy Significant matters also places restrictions on the employment of former employees of the auditors.
for January How the Committee reviewed these matters Recognising that the auditors are best placed to undertake certain work of a December 2016 and what decisions were taken non-audit nature, the policy permits the provision of audit-related services and Revenue recognition The Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors permitted non-audit services up to limits that are pre-approved by the Committee, and links to comments on the recognition of revenues in the with specific approvals required beyond such limits by the Committee.
managements secondary capital markets trading area, fees or incentives revenue share clearing arrangements and information A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable to the external services revenue accruals see EY audit opinion on auditors for the year ended 31 December 2016 and prior year is provided below pages 102 111.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that and in note 36 to the financial statements.
sufficient analysis had been performed in this area to demonstrate that there was no evidence that any Year ended Year ended manipulation of revenues had taken place.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Goodwill and The Audit Committee considered the approach and m m acquired intangibles methodology applied to performing the annual goodwill Audit services impairment impairment assessment as well as the assessment for Audit of parent company and consolidated financial assessment indications of impairment of other acquired intangible statements 0.5 0.5 assets as required under IAS 36, including the key Audit of subsidiary companies 2.1 1.5 assumptions for short and long-term growth rates, cash Audit related assurance services 0.4 0.2 flow expectations and the discount rate used for the Other non-audit services: Groups cost of capital.
The impairment review was also Taxation 0.2 0.3 an area of focus for the external auditors, who reported Other assurance services 0.2 0.1 their findings to the Committee.
Details can be found in Total 3.4 2.6 note 15 to the financial statements on pages 137 138.
Note: In total 0.4m was spent on non-audit services in 2016 representing 12% of the total spent with Potential disposal On 3 January 2017 the Group announced that it had our external auditors 2015: 0.4m representing 15%.
of LCH SA received an irrevocable all-cash offer from Euronext N. V. to purchase LCH SA, LCH Groups French-regulated operating The Chair of the Committee reviewed each of these individual appointments on subsidiary.
The consideration of 510 million will be their merits.
Prior to EY being engaged, the review process involved considering adjusted for surplus regulatory capital movement managements assessment of: between 30 June 2016 and completion of the transaction.
the threats to independence and objectivity resulting from the provision of The proposed sale of LCH SA is subject to review and such services approval by the European Commission in connection with the recommended merger of LSEG and Deutsche Brse which accounting firms had the appropriate experience and expertise to AG.
It is conditional on the successful closing of the undertake the work merger and the receipt of various regulatory and other whether there were any conflicts of interest for EY consents and approvals.
The Audit Committee considered the status of the sale process under IFRS 5 and has whether the conflicts of interest that existed for other potential firms, who agreed that the criteria required for held for sale were either advising other parties to the transactions or were auditors of the accounting of LCH SA had not been met as of 31 other company, could be appropriately managed December 2016.
As a result the financial statements the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall audit fee and disclose a description of the business being disposed and relative significance to EY in the context of its total client fees a description of the facts and circumstances leading to the disposal, and the expected manner and timing of that disposal will be provided in the interim statements.
More details can be found in note 35 on page 162 of this report.
66 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Board of Directors was in a position Divestment of the The Audit Committee reviewed the accounting to make the statement using the Group Stress testing methodology.
Russell Investment considerations for the divestment, as well as the Management necessary disclosures and the tax implications of the The Financial viability statement can be found within the Directors Report on business transaction.
It satisfied itself that the accounting, tax page 99. treatment and disclosures of material matters were appropriate and that all remaining arrangements Fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report between the Group and Russell Investments were The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Annual Report is fair, balanced properly captured and understandable and has presented its conclusions to the Board of the Group.
Implementation of The Audit Committee reviewed reports from the Finance In order to reach its conclusions, the Audit Committee examined the the new finance function on the progress of the implementation of the following criteria: system new Group-wide finance system throughout 2016 Fair: including data conversion and migration, development of the chart of accounts, mapping to the existing ledgers, The Annual Report does not omit important or sensitive elements system interfaces, recertification of access process necessary to understand the strategy, performance and business model and deployment across the Groups businesses.
The of the Group Committee satisfied itself that the implementation of the Segmental reporting accurately describes the various activities of the new finance system has not impaired data integrity, or Group and their relative contributions to the strategy, performance and the accounting of financial reporting in any way business model of the Group 1.
T he PBT measure excludes the results of the Investment Management division of the Frank Russell The messages in the Strategic Report and the CEO and Chairmans reports Company and non-recurring items but includes the amortisation of purchased intangible assets as are consistent with the financial reporting section disclosed in note 7 of the consolidated financial statements.
This is noted in the EY audit opinion on page 102.
Balanced: Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements: There is an appropriate balance between the required statutory accounting Commitments and contingencies: metrics and Group-specific adjusted measures The Audit Committee considered the facts and circumstances surrounding The messages in all sections appropriately balance the favourable and less commitments and contingencies for the Group.
The Committee agreed that no favourable events and trends affecting the strategy and performance provision needed to be recorded in the financial statements.
See note 30 on of the Group page 157.
The principal risks presented in the Strategic Report on pages 47 53 Non-recurring items: accurately reflect the risk registers which are used to set the risk appetite The Committee discussed and agreed on non-recurring items in the financial and the strategy of the Group, including those risks which would threaten statements for the year.
These are presented in note 7 of the financial statements.
its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity Understandable: M&A related insurance: The Group often enters into certain insurance policies when executing on M&A There is a clear and comprehensive framework for the Annual Report opportunities.
The payments for such policies are often made up front but are The key messages are adequately highlighted in simple language avoiding then recognised as a prepayment and released over the period of the policy.
As specialised terms and acronyms wherever possible these costs are directly linked to a one-off event and insure against breaches of representation pre-dating our ownership, the Committee has agreed that they There is a glossary of technical terms and acronyms used frequently across should be recognised as non-recurring items in the income statement.
the report The relevant information for shareholders is easy to find and appropriately Financial viability statement cross-referenced where necessary without additional clutter the 2016 The Financial viability statement was introduced by the Code in 2014, the Annual Report comprises 176 pages compared to the 156 pages of the adoption of which is required for listed companies with accounting periods 2015 report starting on or after 1 October 2014.
In order to meet the requirements of the Code, the Board needs to explain how it has assessed the prospects of the Group taking The various sections taken together present a consistent and easy to into account the current position and principal risks, and over what period they comprehend overview of the strategy, performance and business model of have done so along with why they consider that period to be appropriate.
the Group The Audit Committee discussed the key elements required to make the statement, i. e. : Deciding on the appropriate period to cover Identifying and describing the relevant evidence and assumptions and ensuring that the various planning scenarios were realistic, taking into account the business, industry and macro-economic factors Making an assessment that is appropriate to the Companys circumstances Applying appropriate stress testing and reverse stress testing 67
