London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Corporate governance Good governance is about helping to ensure the Company is well run.
Donald Brydon CBE Chairman Dear Shareholders, The Board of the Group is committed to ensuring that it provides effective Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
One of the ways in adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good governance but rather which the Board achieves this is by requiring that good governance principles and about the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing practices are adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board has determined any Board is the way in which the Non-Executive and the Executive Directors that the following is a helpful summary of its role.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to expect Executive Directors to speak individually with the Good governance is about helping to ensure the Company is well run.
It involves same freedom as the Non-Executive Directors.
Equally, Executive Directors who being satisfied that an effective internal framework of systems and controls is put just toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and promotes success effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to while permitting the management of risk to appropriate levels.
find the right balance between hearing the collective executive view, being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team and allowing independent It also involves the exercise of judgement as to the definitions of success for the input from the Non-Executive Directors.
Group, the levels of risk we are willing to take to achieve that success and the levels of delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement is the responsibility One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the Board of the Board and involves consideration of processes and assumptions as well and finding this balance between individuality and team behaviour is driving as outcomes.
more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer Executive Directors.
In our circumstances, the consequent Board construction works effectively and an It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views of shareholders appropriate balance is struck.
and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching these judgements.
Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, ideally, be composed of The Executive Team is required to provide such information to the Board as the a diverse group of respected, experienced and competent people who coalesce Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over these matters.
It must also around the common purpose of promoting the long-term success of the Company, evidence appropriate process.
There is a very fine distinction between the approval provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour of processes and their definition.
Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to to support management i. e. honestly criticise at times but encourage all the time initiate or define.
and create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
The Board also sets the tone for the Group.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definition of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
Donald Brydon Chairman 3 March 2017 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 This report is intended to give shareholders a clear and comprehensive the Code and its statement requirements picture of the Groups governance arrangements and how they operated Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and to the date of this during the year.
report, London Stock Exchange Group plc has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the UK Financial Pages 56 60 set out details of the areas of our focus during the year, Reporting Council at www.
This corporate governance section of the followed by the Committee Reports.
Descriptions of how we complied Annual Report and Accounts describes how we have applied the principles of with the main principles of the Code are set out on pages 62 63. the Code.
56 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Corporate governance Board and Committee meetings 2016 forecasts and funding of acquisitions, the review and approval of full year and The Board held six scheduled meetings and four additional meetings called on at interim results and quarterly Interim Management Statements, and succession short notice principally relating to the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse.
planning, including the appointment of a new independent Non-Executive Director.
A table of Board and Committee meeting attendance is set out below.
When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conflicts in their On a number of occasions throughout the year, the Chairman met Non-Executive schedule, they received and reviewed the relevant meeting papers.
Where they had Directors without Executive Directors present, and the Board met without the comments or concerns on the matters to be discussed, they provided these to the presence of the Chairman.
Throughout the year, the Chairman also met with Chairman of the Board or Committee in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman of Non-Executive Directors individually to discuss other business-related matters.
the Board engages with Directors between Board meetings to discuss business and Comprehensive Board and Committee papers, comprising an agenda and formal strategic issues.
reports and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in advance of each meeting.
Directors are continually updated with written and verbal reports, from senior When arranging meetings on short notice, every attempt is made to accommodate executives and external advisors.
Directors diaries: however, inevitably, not all Directors are able to attend all such meetings.
The majority of meetings where Directors have been unable to attend Each meeting includes a wide-ranging report from the Chief Executive and a report were the four additional meetings called at short notice which principally related to from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial performance.
Reports from the proposed all-share merger between the Company and Deutsche Brse AG.
the committee chairmen, updates on major projects and certain administrative matters are also reported at each Board meeting.
As part of its ongoing development the Board visited the Groups businesses and met with staff in Milan and Sri Lanka.
In Sri Lanka the Board visited the Groups IT On an annual basis the Board undertakes reviews of the following: Health and Safety, business, MillenniumIT and attended the opening of the Groups new state-of-thethe 3 Year Business Plan and Annual Budget, the FCAs risk mitigation programme, art technology facility in Sri Lanka by the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka, Ranil Board effectiveness, Review of independence of Directors pursuant to the Code, Wickremesinghe and LSEG Chairman, Donald Brydon.
Headquartered in the Review of key governance and corporate policies, Approval of the Group Risk TRACE Expert City precinct of Colombo, the new technology hub will provide Register and Risk Appetite, and Approval of Annual and Interim Dividends and the technical support services for the Groups global network.
Transaction Committee During the year the Board considered the following matters: the proposed all-share In addition to the existing standing committees of the Board, to assist the Board in merger between the Company and Deutsche Brse, the sale of the Frank Russell relation to the proposed merger a Transaction Committee was appointed during the Investment Management Business, the sale of LCH SA, the acquisition of Mergent year.
Its members were Donald Brydon Chairman, Jacques Aigrain, Paul Heiden Inc, the establishment of new Elite businesses in Italy and the UK, the risks and and David Nish.
The Committees role is to oversee the implementation of Board opportunities presented by Brexit, the management of Cyber Risk, the Groups Tax decisions, take decisions and provide advice on behalf of the Board in relation to the Strategy, the Market Abuse Regulation and related group policies, the Groups merger.
The Group CEO, CFO and General Counsel are standing invitees.
Insurance policies, Group strategy including Group corporate responsibility strategy, Group debt refinancing, Investor Relations reports, the review of quarterly financial Table shows the number of meetings attended against the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend Board Audit Risk Remuneration Transaction Donald Brydon CBE 10 10 4 4 8 8 Xavier R Rolet KBE 10 10 Jacques Aigrain 10 10 6 6 4 4 8 8 Paul Heiden 9 10 6 6 3 3 3 3 8 8 1 1 Lex Hoogduin 8 10 Raffaele Jerusalmi 10 10 2 2 David Nish 8 10 5 6 2 3 7 8 Stephen OConnor 9 10 6 6 3 3 Mary Schapiro 9 10 2 3 3 Andrea Sironi 3 3 David Warren 10 10 Directors who left during the year Baroness Sharon Bowles left the Board on 26 April 2016 3 3 2 2 Sherry Coutu CBE left the Board on 26 April 2016 3 3 1 1 Stuart Lewis left the Board on 26 April 2016 2 3 1 1 1 1 Andrea Munari left the Board on 1 October 2016 5 7 0 2 1.
Lex Hoogduin joined the Board in December 2015.
He did not attend two Board meetings by agreement due to a conflict of interest.
D avid Nish joined the Board in December 2015 and attended all the scheduled Board meetings during the year.
He was unable to attend two additional Board meetings and an Audit and a Risk Committee meeting scheduled on the same day and which clashed with a commitment in place prior to him joining the Board.
Andrea Sironi joined the Board on 1 October 2016.
57 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Corporate governance continued BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND LEADERSHIP 2016 Effectiveness Review 2015 Effectiveness Review The Board carried out an internal review of its own effectiveness and that of its The 2015 Effectiveness Review which was conducted internally by the Committees and Directors.
The evaluation process was conducted by the Group Group Company Secretary identified a number of issues.
These are Company Secretary using a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the review summarised below, together with the resulting actions.
were used to assist the Board in forming Board objectives for 2017 and to assist in consideration of the future development of the Board, its Committees and its ISSUE ACTION individual Directors.
Board Directors to Following changes in 2015, the Board has spent more have increased contact time together outside of the Boardroom in frequent In an extraordinary year with the backdrop of seeking to deliver the merger with outside the Board Board dinners, on international trips and in individual Deutsche Brse the main areas the Board identified in the Review as key areas room engagement with the Chairman.
of future focus were succession planning and ongoing training.
Increased discussion of The Board and a specially appointed Transaction succession planning at Committee has considered the composition of the Board level Board of the new holding company following the proposed merger.
Identify further In response to feedback from the Board collectively and development needs for individually, during 2016 directors have participated in Directors training sessions relating to: aspects of our technology business, AIM, the operation of the Shared Service arrangements and cyber security.
To support the Board in the areas of technology and regulation, Technology and Regulatory Advisory Committees have been set up with expert members being appointed from outside the Board.
Relations with shareholders The IR section of the Groups website www.
com investor-relations is a The Groups Investor Relations IR function, reporting to the Chief Financial Officer, primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
All financial manages day-to-day engagement with shareholders.
Executive management, reports and statements, news releases, presentations and other documents particularly the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer engage with including regulatory news service disclosures are available on the website together investors through meetings and presentations to discuss strategy, performance with a list of analysts producing research on the Company and a summary of and other matters.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of analysts forecasts of performance.
Recordings of preliminary and interim results the Remuneration Committee are also available to meet major investors, mostly calls are accessible to all shareholders via the Group website.
to discuss corporate governance matters.
Senior management and the IR team held 392 meetings and calls with institutional investors during the course of the Conflicts of interest year.
Additionally, the Remuneration Committee consulted with a number of the The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise conflicts of Groups institutional shareholders on remuneration matters.
interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The Group has established procedures whereby actual and potential conflicts of The Groups AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to meet and to interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the put questions to the Board Directors.
Procedures for the AGM are compliant with appointment of any new Director and new conflicts are addressed appropriately.
the Code, with voting by way of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted into account.
Directors and, in making such decisions, the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition to information on financial and operational performance, the Group engages with shareholders and relevant shareholder advisory agencies on Lex Hoogduin is Chairman of LCH.
LCH Clearnet Group environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
The Group produces an Limited is a non-wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and Mr Hoogduin annual Corporate Responsibility report that details its approach to ESG matters: receives a separate fee for that role.
Any potential conflicts of interest arising as a www.
result of Mr Hoogduins appointment to the Board have been governed by the terms of a conflicts memorandum of understanding between LCH.
Clearnet Group The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, Limited and the Company.
including market expectations of financial performance, updates on share register composition and feedback from investors.
Sell-side analyst research notes are circulated to the Board following publication.
The Groups corporate brokers and a specialist IR advisory firm also provide the Board with advice on market sentiment and share register analysis.
58 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Corporate governance Indemnities Internal Controls Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the Company in Management structure respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office and execution of their The Group operates a matrix structure designed to optimise resource allocation powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company maintained a Directors and and organisational capacity.
The day-to-day running of the Group is managed by Officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
This policy covers the an Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Directors for any such liabilities in respect of which they are not indemnified Each Executive Committee member is responsible for one of the Groups operating by the Company and, to the extent to which it has indemnified the Directors, divisions or a major area of strategic importance.
The Executive Committee meets also covers the Company.
This insurance cover has been renewed.
Neither the regularly to review business and financial performance, risk exposure and to Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover for a Director in the event approve key decisions.
Each legal entity is responsible for engaging with its local that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
regulators and monitoring and ensuring regulatory compliance.
Policies and Procedures Risk Management and Internal Control A framework of Group-wide policies establish the principles, minimum standards The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management framework and and risk management activities that LSEG requires the Groups businesses and maintaining an appropriate system of internal controls.
A Board-approved functions to follow to manage their business within risk appetite.
All Group-level Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework and Group Risk Appetite Statement policies are approved by the Executive Committee, and may also require approval are central to the Groups Risk Management process.
The Risk Management or ratification from the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Board.
Framework is updated on an ongoing basis in response to changes in the Groups The Group runs a rolling programme of mandatory online training courses for all business and associated risks.
The Group Risk Appetite statement is approved employees covering ethical conduct, risk and control management, regulatory annually as part of the Groups strategic planning process.
requirements and the group policies.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee assist the Board in discharging its Financial Control responsibilities by reviewing and assessing the Groups Risk Management The Group has a robust system of financial control which has been enhanced Framework, system of internal controls and risk management process on a regular during 2016 by the implementation of a new Group-wide financial system in basis.
Refer to the reports of the Audit Committee on pages 64 67 and the Risk response to the increased size and footprint of the Group.
An appropriate Committee on pages 68 69 for further detail on their oversight activities during framework of delegated authorities is in place.
Comprehensive financial planning, reporting and review procedures are in place, The system of internal controls is designed to facilitate the management of the with an annual budget and three year business plan approved by the Board.
Group and its businesses within the Boards risk appetite rather than eliminate the Financial and key performance indicators are reviewed against operational risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can only provide reasonable, budgets on a monthly basis at a group, divisional and business unit level.
The but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, fraud or Chief Financial Officers management reports are shared with the Board and any breaches of laws and regulations.
key issues are reviewed at each Board meeting.
The Executive Investment Committee monitors capital expenditures across the Group and helps the Executive management is accountable for risk identification, evaluation, mitigation, Executive Committee approve and prioritise projects.
monitoring and reporting in accordance with the framework.
A divisional internal control and Risk Management self-certification process is also performed The Executive Financial Risk Committee oversees risks related to capital, semi-annually.
Each business unit is required to confirm that it is in compliance investments, tax, counterparties and through its Treasury Committee the with the Groups policies and governance procedures and managing its risk within activities of the Groups Treasury function.
The Treasury Committee operates appetite: exceptions are reported to the Audit Committee and Risk Committee.
within Board-approved policy and meets regularly to review the management of the Groups credit, market and liquidity risks.
Material group counterparty Further detail on the Groups Risk Management oversight can be found on exposures are assessed regularly including through a Group-wide centralised pages 44 46.
An overview of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the counterparty risk Value at Risk model.
Further details on financial risk Group is provided on pages 47 53. management are provided in note 2 to the accounts.
59 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Corporate governance continued Internal Audit The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to the Board and other key stakeholders over the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, the governance model and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
The function is the third line of defence in the Groups risk control structure and has no operational responsibilities over the entities or processes which it reviews.
The independence of the Internal Audit function from Executive Management is ensured through the following measures: The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and has direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
For administrative matters the Group Head of Internal Audit has a secondary reporting line to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer jointly assess the performance of the Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee approves the Internal Audit annual budget plan and resourcing.
Further details on the Internal Audit function can be found in the internal audit charter which is reviewed annually and available from the Group Company Secretary or the Groups website at www.
Conclusion The Board confirms that, through the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee, it has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls throughout 2016 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board has satisfied itself that a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance and liquidity, have been carried out during the year.
Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified during these reviews.
The Board is satisfied that the Risk Management process and system of internal controls conform with the 2014 FRCs Risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting Risk Guidance.
