London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Report of the Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee Donald Brydon CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee members as at 31 December 2016 LSEG also seeks to make appointments on merit against objective criteria were Donald Brydon Chairman, Paul Heiden, Stephen OConnor with due regard for the benefits of diversity.
The Committees role is to review the size, We recognise the benefit throughout the Group in having access to the diversity structure and skills of the Board, consider succession planning of input from people with a wide range of backgrounds and nationalities.
and make recommendations to the Board on potential candidates This is reflected at Board level by the diverse backgrounds and nationalities of for Board membership.
The Board fully supports the recommendations of the Davies Review that greater efforts should be made in improving the gender balance of corporate boards.
On a personal basis, I am a firm believer in the benefits of diversity and In 2016, in addition to its normal work, much of the focus of the Board has am a member of the 30% Club.
been on the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse AG, which was approved by LSEG shareholders on 4 July 2016.
The agreed terms of this merger include a The Board is also aligned with the proposals of the Hampton Alexander Review commitment that each of the parties nominate eight members of the board of the to ensure talented women at the top of business are recognised, promoted and new holding company and the vast majority so nominated are existing members rewarded and the value in investing in a pipeline of talent.
To that end during 2016, of the Boards of the two companies.
LSEG signed the UK Treasury Women in Finance Charter signalling the Groups ongoing commitment to equality in the workplace and to challenge actively both Non-Executive Directors ourselves and others in the financial sector to keep addressing these issues.
During the year Andrea Munari retired after serving for nine years.
The Board We have set ourselves a stretch target of 40% female representation for senior appointed as his successor Andrea Sironi, recently Rector of Bocconi University management and our overall population.
We aim to achieve this by 2020. and the Chairman of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. as an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee viewed it as particularly important to maintain a strong The Board fully recognises that the current composition of the LSEG Board does Italian presence on the Board in view of the importance of the Groups Italian not achieve the right balance in terms of gender this year.
Additionally in April 2016, Baroness Sharon Bowles, Sherry Coutu CBE in mid-2015 I led an appraisal of the skills and backgrounds of the Board members and Stuart Lewis stepped down from the Board.
with the aim of developing a Board with the right skills balance, diversity and appropriate size.
As a result a number of changes were made to the Boards The overarching importance of the proposed merger led to the Board and a composition in December 2015 adding additional buy-side plc and clearing specially appointed Transaction Committee focusing on board composition regulatory expertise to the Board.
In 2016 the Board focused on discussions for the new holding company and given the probability of the merger closing with regard to a possible merger with Deutsche Brse and the process of further satisfactorily no separate meetings of the Nomination Committee to consider reconstruction of the Board was paused pending the outcome of the discussions.
the composition of the LSEG Board were held during 2016.
One consequence of the Board review has been that the Board of LSE plc, Executive Directors the recognised investment exchange has Baroness Sharon Bowles and Sherry Xavier Rolet, CEO, indicated during the merger discussions that he was willing to Coutu CBE as members a good signal of the Groups commitment to diversity.
retire from the Group following the merger if that would be an essential action to The other consequence is that, during this transition period, the LSEG Board falls ensure a successful outcome to the negotiations with Deutsche Brse.
The Board temporarily below the diversity proportion we would prefer, although there are six appreciated the shareholder value motivation of this offer.
There will be other nationalities represented.
I am encouraged that the Board of the new holding occasions to write about the extraordinary contribution to the Group that Xavier company has been constructed to contain seven nationalities and be almost has made.
Raffaele Jerusalmi has also indicated that he will step down from his LSEG Board Further details of the Companys approach to diversity and the LSEG Boards role upon completion of the merger, whilst David Warren is to be appointed CFO diversity policy can be found at www.
com of the new company and a member of the new companys board.
In Transition When searching for candidates for Board appointments, the Board reviews its composition on the basis of the Groups ambition to be a global leader in markets infrastructure, with Board member skills and experience to reflect the Donald Brydon international nature and the range of the Groups activities and markets.
