Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Audit & Risk Committee report Committee membership and meeting attendance The members of the Committee as at 31 December 2016, together with their roles and meeting attendance during the year are set out below.
The Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates and I am considered to have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Further details of the Committee members experience and areas of expertise are provided on pages 48 to 49.
In order to encourage effective communication, the Board Chairman, CEOand CFO are invited to attend Committee meetings along with certain members of the senior management team, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
There is an opportunity at the end of each meeting for the Committee tomeet with the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from Deloitte in The Audit & Risk Committee the Committee continues the absence of management.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and Deloitte have direct access to me should they wish to raise any concernsoutside to be integral toMan Groups governance framework.
During the year theCommittee maintained its focus on supporting the Board in itsassessment of the integrity of Meeting Committee Member Role attendance the Groups financial reporting, monitoring the effectiveness Matthew Lester Chairman 6 6 ofthe Groups systems of risk management and internal 1 Phillip Colebatch Independent non-executive director 5 6 controls, and overseeing the activities oftheGroups Andrew Horton Independent non-executive director 6 6 Internal Audit function and its external auditor.
Dev Sanyal Independent non-executive director 6 6 In addition to its regular work, the Committee has also 1 Phillip Colebatch was not able to attend the Committee meeting in October 2016 which had to be rescheduled at relatively short notice to accommodate conflicting dedicated significant time to considering regulatory commitments of certain attendees.
However, he received and reviewed the papers to developments impacting the Group, developing its be considered at the meeting and had the opportunity to direct any questions to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
understanding of the oversight and governance arrangements that exist inrespect of Mans overseas How the Committee operates offices and establishing whether there were any practices The Committee has established an annual forward agenda to cover the or operating models in these offices that impacted the risk key events in the financial reporting cycle, specific risk matters identified bythe Committee and standing items that the Committee is required to profile of the firm.
consider in accordance with its terms of reference.
The annual agenda issupported by agenda setting meetings held in advance of each Matthew Lester Committee meeting which I lead and are attended by members of Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee thesenior management team and the Head of Internal Audit, to identify keyissues impacting the business that may require consideration by theCommittee.
MEMBERSHIP Chairman At each meeting, the Committee considers dashboards which Matthew Lester highlightand monitor changes in the key risks impacting the business, compliance matters, the financial controls framework and internal controls.
Committee members The dashboards are designed to enable the Committee to focus on any Phillip Colebatch matters that may require further discussion.
The Committee also receives Andrew Horton reports and presentations on key financial reporting, risk, compliance Dev Sanyal andaudit matters from management who attend Committee meetings toreport on significant issues and respond to queries raised by the ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Committee.
Following each Committee meeting, I update the Board on thekey areas of discussion and make recommendations as appropriate.
The Committees roles and responsibilities are outlined on page 57.
Anexplanation of how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year is set out on pages 57 to 60.
During the year the Committeemaintained its focuson supporting the Board in itsassessment of the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
Full terms of reference for the Committee, which are reviewed on an annual basis and referred to the Board for approval, are available on Matthew Lester the Companys website.
Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee www.
com corporate-governance 56 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements How the Committee has discharged its roles and responsibilities Roles and Responsibilities during 2016 and early 2017 Financial Reporting Financial reporting Monitor the integrity of the financial information Accounting judgements and significant accounting matters contained in the interim and annual financial statements As part of the process for monitoring the integrity of the financial with particular focus on key accounting policies, information contained in the interim and annual financial statements, estimates and judgements.
theCommittee reviewed the key accounting judgements and policies Review the longer-term viability and going concern adopted by management and confirmed that these were appropriate.
The statements and recommend their approval to theBoard.
significant areas of judgement identified by the Committee, in conjunction Advise the Board on whether the Committee believes with management and the external auditor, together with a number of other the Interim and Annual Reports to be fair, balanced areas that the Committee deemed to be significant in the context of the andunderstandable.
financial statements are set out in the table on page 58.
Risk Management, Internal Controls and Compliance Viability and going concern Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee considered the requirements contained in the Code systems of risk management and internal controls regarding the Companys viability statement including the proposed please refer to page 53 for furtherdetails.
three-year assessment period in line with the Groups business planning Ensure that a robust assessment of the principal horizon and the processes supporting the viability assessment.
After risksfacing theGroup has been undertaken and significant discussion, and having considered the Groups forecast advise the Board on the management and mitigation regulatory capital surplus, liquidity resources and requirements, the of these risks.
Committee concluded that the three-year assessment period continued Review the effectiveness of the Groups regulatory to be appropriate and recommended the draft viability statement as set reporting activities, Compliance function and out on page 37 to the Board for approval.
arrangements for staff to raise concerns, inconfidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial The Committee also reviewed the going concern disclosure which is set reporting or other matters.
out on page 104 and concluded that the Group and the Company had Report to the Remuneration Committee any findings in adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable relation toriskmatters which may impact its decision future and confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate for the Groups on discretionary remuneration payments.
financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Internal Audit Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Approve the annual Internal Audit Plan and Charter At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the and Internal Auditactivities.
Interim and Annual Reports were fair, balanced and understandable Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
andprovided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Review all significant Internal Audit recommendations Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee and oversee progress in addressing these.
reviewed the interim and annual financial statements in conjunction with External Audit the narrative sections of the reports to ensure that there was consistency Recommend to the Board the appointment, and in the information reported, that appropriate weight had been given to determine the remuneration of, the external auditor, both positive and negative aspects of business performance and that key including reviewing the external auditors effectiveness messages had been presented coherently.
The Committee concluded and independence.
that, taken as a whole, the Interim and Annual Reports were fair, Review and approve the external audit plan and the balanced and understandable.
Review the findings of the external audit and the external Communications with the Financial Reporting Council FRC auditors management letter and oversee management In November, the Company received a letter from the FRC which raised a action to address the findings where necessary.
number of questions around certain aspects of Man Group plcs financial Approve and monitor the policies relating to the statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The letter focused on provision of non-audit services by the external auditor contingent consideration payments in relation to the Numeric, Silvermine and the hiring of personnel from the external auditor.
and NewSmith acquisitions and the accounting treatment of Reservoir Ensure that the tendering, selection and rotation of Trust assets.
The Committee noted managements response to the letter theexternal audit services contract are carried out which I, together with the Board Chairman and Deloitte, reviewed.
inaccordance with applicable law, regulation and Weawait confirmation that the FRC have no further questions on bestpractice.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 57 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Audit & Risk Committee report continued Judgemental areas and accounting estimates Matter considered Action Outcome Impairment assessment of goodwill andacquired intangibles Goodwill and acquired intangibles for each of the The Committee considered reports from After extensive debate and challenge, the Groups cash generating units AHL, GLG, FRM management outlining the methodology for Committee confirmed that the proposed GLG and Numeric are tested for impairment at least theimpairment assessment and challenged the and FRM goodwill and acquired intangibles annually through the application of a value in use assumptions underpinning the goodwill valuation impairment was appropriate for the year ended model.
This is judgemental in nature as it requires model including discount rates, the change in 31 December 2016.
Accordingly, an impairment estimates concerning future cash flows, growth cost allocation methodology, flow projections charge of $379m has been recorded as an rates and associated discount rates to be taken and headroom availability.
As a result of an adjusting item in the income statement.
adjustment to the 2017 budget assumptions and the consequential change in forecast performance Please refer to Note 11 to the Group financial statements and net flows, management proposed that the GLG and FRM goodwill and acquired intangibles be impaired by $281m and $98m respectively.
Fair value of contingent consideration The valuation of the contingent consideration is The Committee considered managements After a full discussion, the Committee confirmed dependent on estimates concerning the projected fairvalue assessment of the contingent that it was comfortable that the decrease in the future growth rates and cash flows based upon consideration creditors of the Numeric, FRM, fair value of the contingent consideration was managements view of future business prospects Pine Grove, Silvermine, NewSmith and BAML appropriate.
A fair value adjustment of $40m has and associated discount rates.
earn-outs which projected an overall decrease in been recognised as an adjusting item credit in the the fair value of the contingent consideration of income statement.
Please refer to Notes 16 and 26 to the Group financial $40m, primarily attributable to Numeric as a result statements for further details.
of changes in the assumptions used in the Board approved Budget and Medium Term Plan.
Deferred tax assets DTA The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in The Committee discussed the existing The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied the US which largely represent historical tax losses methodology underpinning the valuation of the DTA that a three-year period was the most appropriate and future deductions for amortisation of goodwill which uses a three-year period to forecast profits.
basis upon which to forecast profits in accordance and other intangible assets that will reduce the tax The Committee also challenged managements with the Groups business planning horizon and payable in the US.
The value of the DTA recognised assessment that this methodology continues that the existing methodology continued to be requires judgement regarding the assessment of to remain appropriate and represents their best appropriate.
A movement in the DTA of $6m probable profits.
estimate of probable future taxable profits.
has been recognised as an adjusting item in the income statement.
Please refer to Note 8 to the Group financial statements forfurther details.
Consolidation of investment in funds The Group holds seeding investments in a number The Committee reviewed managements The Committee concluded that it was satisfied of funds which it manages.
Judgement is required assessment of the investments which the Group is with managements assessment of the entities to be exercised in terms of assessing whether deemed to control in accordance with IFRS 10. which are deemed to be controlled by the Group these investments are controlled by the Group and and the associated accounting treatment.
Five therefore need to be consolidated into the Groups funds have been classified as held for sale and balance sheet.
six investments have been consolidated on a line by line basis with a grossing up impact on the Please refer to Note 14 to the Group financial statements balance sheet of $242m.
Adjusting items The directors focus on profit before adjusting items The Committee reviewed and challenged the The Committee concluded that the adjusting adjusted profit as this reflects the underlying adjusting items contained in the Group financial items were appropriate and provided a fair trends in the business and the recurring revenue statements and considered whether there was assessment of the underlying profitability of and costs that drive the Groups cash flow.
consistency of approach from period to period, an thebusiness.
Adjusting items relate to non-recurring items or appropriate symmetry between losses and gains those resulting from acquisition and disposal and whether the reversal of any accruals previously related transactions.
classified as adjusting items was maintained.
Please refer to Note 2 to the Group financial statements forfurther details.
Accounting treatment of Aalto contingent The Committee discussed and challenged After full discussion, the Committee confirmed consideration managements assessment that the contingent that it agreed with managements assessment The accounting treatment of the Aalto contingent consideration should be accounted for as that Aalto contingent consideration was consideration required judgement to determine consideration rather than remuneration in .
whether it should be accounted for as purchase accordance with the indicators set out in IFRS 3. consideration and therefore as goodwill and acquired intangibles on the balance sheet or as a post-acquisition P&L remuneration cost.
As the acquisition took place after the year-end, the Aalto contingent consideration will be included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
58 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Finance Risk management, internal controls and compliance The Committee considered a presentation from the Group Financial Oversight of risk and control environment key business areas Controller on the Finance functions governance arrangements and areas The Committee continued to develop its understanding of the Groups risk of focus during 2016.
The Committee discussed key personnel changes in and control environment through in-depth reviews of key business areas the Finance team including the appointment of Mark Jones as the Groups and consideration of the integration of recently acquired businesses.
It noted the improvements that had been made to the automation Representatives from GLG, FRM, AHL and the Groups Sales team were and ownership of the revenue, rebates and distribution costs processes invited to present to the Committee on the risk and control profile of their respective business areas.
These presentations provide the Committee during the year and the enhancements to internal reporting of funds with real insight into the significant risks perceived by each business area undermanagement, flows and margins that were planned for 2017.
The and the controls that exist to manage and mitigate these risks as Committee also received an update from the Head of Tax summarising the appropriate.
Key areas of discussion are set out below.
Groups tax position and highlighting key priorities for the tax team in 2017. Business Meeting areareviewed Key areas of discussion IT and Operations The Groups Chief Operating Officer updated the Committee on FRM The challenges and opportunities that the integration of recent acquisitions such as Pine changesimpacting the risk and control environment of the IT and May Grove and BAML have presented.
Operations functions including the progress that had been made in transitioning Mans fund administration and agency business to an alternative service provider.
The Committee was also briefed on the GLG Changes in the risk and control profile since the previous in-depth presentation with particular focus Groups insurance arrangements and received an update on the software Jun on performance.
solutions that had been implemented to enhance its ability to manage the risk of cybercrime.
AHL The extent to which the shift towards an institutional investor base within AHL impacted the businesss A particular area of focus for the Committee during the year has been Oct risk environment.
thegovernance arrangements that exist within Mans overseas offices andthe exercise of central oversight.
This was prompted by operational issues identified in Australia and the subsequent decision to outsource Sales Understanding the perceived key risks within the Sales function following the change in leadership thetransfer agency function in Australia to a third-party administrator, Dec and the interaction between the Sales and consistent with the operating model adopted by the rest of the firm.
the year, the Committee received a number of updates from management on the Australia office and considered the governance arrangements that apply to all of Mans overseas offices.
Oversight of risk and control environment key functional areas The Committee also considered presentations from each of the Groups Ongoing monitoring of the Groups systems of risk management key functional areas and sought to understand the level of interaction and internal control between the functions together with their coverage of the Groups Having considered the requirements set out in the Code, the Committee principal risks as set out on pages 38 and 39. is satisfied that, through its regular review of dashboards, its in-depth assessment of key business areas and functions and its ongoing review Risk of progress against the Internal Audit Plan as described below, it is At its meeting in May, the Committee received an update from the monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management ChiefRisk Officer CRO on the Group Risk function and its role in and internal control on an ongoing basis.
This is supported by regular supporting the Groups governance processes, primarily through the discussions with the external auditor around risk management and maintenance of the Groups Authorities Summary please see page 51 internal controls to ensure that there is appropriate alignment.
Further forfurther details and the operation of the Risk Governance & Appetite details can be found in the Corporate Governance report on page 53.
During the year, the Committee considered anumber of proposed changes to the Framework which included the Internal Audit addition of new qualitative risk appetite statements and the inclusion of 2017 Internal Audit Plan Strategic Execution Risk within the risk dashboard.
The Committee The Groups Internal Audit function continues to be outsourced to KPMG.
endorsed the revised Framework and recommended it to the Board for During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the 2017 Internal approval.
The Committee also considered the reallocation of the executive Audit Plan the Plan which included details of the planned audit reviews managements risk responsibilities following the departure of the CRO for 2017 and the resources required to deliver the Plan.
towards the end of the year.
At each meeting, the Committee considered Internal Audit reports Compliance presented by the Head of Internal Audit and monitored progress against During the year, the Global Head of Legal and Compliance now Chief the 2016 Plan.
In response to feedback from the Committee, a number Administrative Officer presented the 2016 Compliance Plan.
Particular ofchanges were made to the format of the reporting to strengthen the focus was given to developments within regulatory technology as well as focus on any significant issues identified in the audits and highlight any large scale regulatory change programmes such as MiFID II, the Market overdue items.
Whilst no significant weaknesses were identified in any Abuse Regulation and the Senior Manager Regime.
The Committee was ofthe Internal Audit reports, a number of improvements to certain keen to understand the impact that these programmes would have on the processes and controls were implemented in response to the business from both a regulatory and resourcing perspective.
In addition, recommendations put forward.
the Money Laundering Reporting Officer MLRO presented his 2015 annual report in the first half of 2016 and confirmed that there were no material issues identified in 2015 to bring to the Committees attention.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 59 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Audit & Risk Committee report continued Effectiveness of Internal Audit function Effectiveness of external audit process The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function To facilitate the Committees formal assessment of the effectiveness during the year to assess whether the function continued to meet key oftheexternal audit process, a questionnaire was circulated to and stakeholder objectives.
The outcome of this review, which involved completed by Committee members and various members of the interviews with key stakeholders, indicated that the Internal Audit function management team.
Thequestionnaire focused on several components continued to be effective and that the new Head of Internal Audit had made ofthe 2015 external audit process including the quality of the audit partner a good start in building strong working relationships across the business.
and team, planning and execution of the audit, communication with the Committee and the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The External audit responses, which were discussed in May 2016, indicated that, overall, 2016 external audit plan Deloitte was performing inline with expectations and that the team had At the October meeting, Deloittes 2016 external audit plan was presented demonstrated increasing knowledge of the business and professional by Mark FitzPatrick, the lead engagement partner.
The plan, which was scepticism in the challenge ofkey judgements.
The review also highlighted discussed and approved by the Committee, set out the proposed that certain areas that had been identified as requiring improvement in the materiality threshold, the scope of the audit and the significant audit previous years assessment had been addressed in the 2015 audit.
Areas risksthat had been identified.
for further consideration included the resourcing and structure of the audit team and the direct involvement of specialists on particular issues such as Auditor independence and the provision of non-audit services goodwill.
After extensive discussion, the Committee concluded that the In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external external audit process in respect of the 2015 financial statements had auditor, the Committee is responsible for the development, implementation beeneffective.
and monitoring of the Groups policies on the provision of non-audit services by and the hiring of personnel from the external auditor.
The Reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor Committee reviewed and approved these policies during the year which Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2014, had been updated to reflect changes in EU audit legislation restricting the following a tender process led by the Committee in 2013.
In accordance non-audit services that the external auditor is able to provide.
with the Code and the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Summary of non-audit policy Order, the Company will be required to put its external audit process In accordance with the non-audit services policy, any potential services out to tender again in 2023 at the latest with mandatory rotation of the to be provided by the external auditor, which are not excluded under external auditor required by 2033 pursuant to the EU Audit Regulation.
the non-audit services policy but which have an expected value of The Committee confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the $75,000 or more, must be approved by the Committee in advance.
Order for the financial year under review.
TheCommittees approval is also required where the pre-approved fees in any financial year exceed $2 million in aggregate provided this Following the Committees review of the effectiveness of the external does not exceed the 70% cap on non-audit services as a percentage audit process and its assessment of the external auditors independence of the statutory audit fee introduced by EU independence legislation.
and objectivity, it has recommended the reappointment of Deloitte as the Further details can be found on the Companys website.
Groups external auditor to the Board for recommendation to and approval by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The table below shows the remuneration paid to Deloitte in 2015 and2016.
How the Committee has assessed its effectiveness In response to the comments raised in the Committees evaluation 2016 2015 $000 $000 undertaken in 2015 around the appropriate forum for the consideration ofstrategic risk, the Board agreed that strategic risk should be an area Fees payable to the external auditor reserved for Board discussion and that it should be properly defined for the audit of the Company and the andarticulated to facilitate a more detailed review.
The consideration of consolidated financial statements 451 507 strategic risk was addressed as part of the review of the Risk Governance Other services: & Appetite Framework in May.
The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1,529 1,543 Towards the end of the year, the Committee conducted an evaluation ofitseffectiveness, which was facilitated internally.
Questionnaires Audit-related assurance services 308 273 whichcovered topics such as composition, meeting effectiveness Tax advisory services 44 andengagement with the Internal Audit function and with Deloitte, were All other services 54 51 circulated to all Committee members and regular attendees.
The findings of the evaluation confirmed that Committee was operating effectively Total auditors remuneration 2,342 2,418 andresponses indicated that meetings were well structured with an appropriate level of constructive challenge provided by all members.
Following a formal assessment of the external auditors independence Areasidentified for focus in 2017 include undertaking in-depth reviews of and objectivity at its meeting in February 2017, the Committee concluded new business areas as the Group continues to diversify, organising further that Deloitte continued to be independent and objective.
targeted training on regulatory developments and key issues impacting the Committee, and drawing on Deloittes experience to explore areas of best practice among other audit and risk committees.
Matthew Lester Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 60 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016
