Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report Introduction from the Chairman To grow our share of the huge global market for alternative investment, it is vital that Man continues to promote both the interests of its shareholders and also other stakeholders.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman I am pleased to introduce Mans 2016 Corporate Governance report Our Board membership has been refreshed and diversified with the inmy first year as Chairman.
I very much appreciate the support I have appointment of Dame Katharine Kate Barker and I will be continuing received from everyone in the Company since becoming Chairman.
I was oursearch for new non-executive talent in the course of this year.
attracted to Man by its growth potential, its financial strength and the calibre and innovative culture of its people, all of which I propose to Senior Independent Director support and foster through my leadership of the Board.
Richard Berliand will be taking over from Phillip Colebatch as our Senior Independent Director following this years AGM.
I should like to thank Delivering for stakeholders Phillip, who will remain on the Board, for his service in this role and in To grow our share of the huge global market for alternative investment, it is particular for his guidance and advice to me in my transition to the vital that Man continues to promote both the interests of its shareholders Chairmanship.
Richard is well placed to succeed him following his and also other stakeholders.
This means managing its funds for the introduction to our shareholders through the extensive engagement long-term benefit of its clients, implementing sound compliance and hehas led, as Remuneration Committee Chairman, on the application governance structures in the overseas countries in which we operate and ofourDirectors Remuneration policy.
underpinning everything we do with a strong set of values.
In overseeing the business, the Board must seek to ensure that this is organised in the Looking ahead best way to generate strong investment performance, encourage client Details of the major areas of the Boards stewardship and governance retention and identify and manage risk.
The Board must also remain actions during 2016 and early 2017, including its engagement with alertto the views and expectations of our stakeholders.
I have sought a shareholders, are given in the Corporate Governance and Board numberof introductory meetings with some of our key clients and major Committee reports which follow.
I look forward to the opportunity to meet shareholders over the last few months and look forward to continuing our some of our private shareholders at this years AGM and to continuing my discussion of their needs and perspective on the business.
leadership of the Board for the benefit of shareholders, clients, employees and the broader societies within which Man operates.
Improving what we do As Chairman, I regularly spend time with the executive team, getting a Lord Livingston of Parkhead better understanding of the issues they are facing, providing guidance Chairman where possible and considering ways in which the Board could further promote its success.
As part of the continuing improvement of the Boards effectiveness, I have streamlined certain Board Committee memberships and delegations and introduced sharply focused strategy sessions into our regular meetings.
Statement of compliance The Remuneration Committee continues to have authority to The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2016, recommend to the Board but not to approve, the remuneration of applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of the UK the Chairman.
This is because the Board believes that, in order to Corporate Governance Code except in relation to the following: provide transparency and allow the views of all the directors, executive and non-executive, to be taken into account, it is appropriate for all Setting the Chairmans remuneration Board members to determine the Chairmans remuneration.
Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the Remuneration Committee the Committee should have delegated responsibility forsetting the Other information remuneration of all the executive directors and the Chairman.
Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share capital, the powers of the directors and amendments to the Articles In the first half of the year, the terms of reference of the Committee ofAssociation that is required to be disclosed in the Corporate provided that it had the authority only to recommend, for approval by Governance report pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the the Board, executive directors remuneration.
However, the terms of Directors report on pages 90 to 91. reference were amended in July 2016 to give the Committee authority to determine the annual compensation for the executive directors without seeking approval from the Board.
46 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016
