Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report Introduction from the Chairman 2016 was another busy year for Mans Nomination Committee of which I took over the Chairmanship in May.
Following Manny Romans decision to leave the business in July, we were able to take advantage of internal succession plans to appoint Luke Ellis, formerly President, as Mans new CEO.
Further succession steps then followed with the appointment of Mark Jones as CFO designate and the broadening of Jonathan Sorrells role as President to include Sales and Marketing, Man Global Private Markets and Man FRM.
We continued our search to broaden our non-executive strength and diversify the Boards skills and experience base, leading tothe appointment of Dame Katharine Kate Barker as an additional non-executive director with effect from 1 April 2017.
Further detail of the Committees discussions and actions in these areas are given in the report below.
MEMBERSHIP Membership and meetings All our non-executive directors were members of the Committee and Chairman attended all meetings held through to December 2016 as shown in the Ian Livingston from 6 May 2016 table below.
In that month, in response to feedback received in the 2016 Jon Aisbitt to 6 May 2016 Board and Committee evaluation, the Board agreed to streamline the Committee members membership so that it now comprises only the Chairman of the Board, From 1 January 7 December 2016: the Senior Independent Director and the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk Richard Berliand from 19 January 2016 and Remuneration Committees.
The CEO will continue to attend Phillip Colebatch Committee meetings by invitation, when appropriate.
John Cryan Andrew Horton In addition to the formal meetings listed, the executive management Matthew Lester changes we made over the summer period necessitated substantial Dev Sanyal informal dialogue and numerous calls with Committee members, Nina Shapiro supported when necessary with written papers.
These allowed for a full From 8 December 2016: exchange of views and swift decision making to take advantage of the Richard Berliand opportunities created and ensure a smooth and effective transition to the Phillip Colebatch new management structure.
Matthew Lester 2016 Committee meetings Attendance Attending by invitation Ian Livingston Chairman from 6 May 2016 3 3 Luke Ellis 1 Jon Aisbitt Chairman to 6 May 2016 1 1 Richard Berliand 3 3 Phillip Colebatch 3 3 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES John Cryan 3 3 Andrew Horton 3 3 The Committees role is to: Matthew Lester 3 3 keep the Boards composition, skill and experience base under Dev Sanyal 3 3 regular review in light of business changes: Nina Shapiro 3 3 consider the knowledge, experience and competencies required for a particular appointment: 1 Jon Aisbitt retired from the Board on 6 May 2016. conduct the search and selection process for new directors taking advice from independent search consultants as appropriate: recommend to the Board preferred candidates for Board appointment: review senior executive development and succession plans to ensure continuity of resource at, and just below, Board level: and review and recommend to the Board the renewal of non-executive director appointments.
Details of the Committees main activities during 2016 and early 2017 are given on page 62.
Full terms of reference for the Committee, which are reviewed on an annual basis and referred to the Board for approval, are available on the Companys website.
com corporate-governance Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 61 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report continued What the Committee did during the year Changes in executive management CEO CFO and President Following Manny Romans indication in July that he intended to submit Following the Committees discussions with Luke over the summer his resignation as CEO to take up an alternative position elsewhere, regarding his new management team, Mark Jones, former co-CEO of the Committee decided that it would not be in the best interests GLG, was confirmed by us as a potential successor for the role of CFO of the business to hold him to his contractual notice period and and was subsequently formally interviewed by the Chairman of the Audit quickly moved to consider the successions plans already in place.
and Risk Committee and me.
The Committee concluded that Mark was the best candidate to succeed Jonathan Sorrell and should take over We were aware that Luke Ellis had worked alongside Manny from him in that role after an appropriate transition.
It was intended that since 2012 as President of the firm, helping build the business this change would give Jonathan the opportunity to take on a broader and deliver performance for investors through the management role as President, working alongside Luke, with responsibility for of Mans four investment units.
He was well known to us through corporate strategy and M&A, global Sales and Marketing including his regular reports to the Board on industry trends and Mans clientrelationships, and building our private markets business.
market positioning and was considered by the Committee to be an ideal leader and successor for the CEO role.
On the basis of the The Committee made these formal recommendations to the Board Committees strong recommendation, the Board was pleased to which were approved and announced, together with a number of approve Lukes appointment with effect from 1 September, subject other changes in Lukes senior leadership team, on 2 September.
to FCA approval, following a two month handover from Manny.
In December, following the receipt of FCA approval of Marks The Committee also recommended that Luke should consider prospective appointment as CFO and taking account of his rapid any changes that it might be appropriate for him to make to development and substantial contribution as CFO designate, the other executive roles on the Board to take account of the impact Committee concluded and recommended to the Board that Mark was of his appointment and ongoing business developments.
ready to progress to the full CFO role with effect from 1 January 2017.
Building the non-executive team In May, the Committee reviewed and discussed the recommendations Review of existing appointments ofthe Equality and Human Rights Commission in its report on the Inquiry At the end of the year, following my review of individual members into the appointment of directors to the boards of FTSE 350 companies contribution to the Board as part of the 2016 evaluation, the Committee and the practical steps which the Commission suggested companies reviewed the renewal of Matthew Lesters appointment as a noncould take to improve diversity when making Board appointments.
I gave executive director and as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee an update on the status of a number of candidates ARCom for a further three-year term.
The Committee considered that whohad been considered or interviewed in our search for a new Matthew continued to make a vital contribution to the Board through non-executive director and invited further input and ideas on his leadership of the ARCom and his input into Board decisions.
able to confirm his interest in remaining on the Board and that he had sufficient time to devote to the role.
The Committee was, therefore, Candidate specification pleased to recommend to the Board Matthews reappointment as Our specification for the search was for an individual who had some a non-executive director for a further three years from May 2017, ofthe following: subject to his annual reappointment by shareholders at the AGM.
knowledge of the workings of global financial markets and the financial services sector: Senior Independent Director the experience to bring a broad business perspective: As part of the refreshing of Board roles, the Committee has the ability to add to diversity of thought and approach: recommended and the Board has agreed that Richard Berliand, an understanding of Mans regulatory environment and insight into Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, should succeed Phillip the institutional investment community: and Colebatch as Senior Independent Director SID on the conclusion an international outlook and knowledge of the geographies within ofour 2017 AGM on 5 May.
Richard is well placed to succeed which Man operates.
Phillipinthis role following his extensive engagement with our major shareholders on remuneration matters over the last six months.
The Appointment of Kate Barker Committee has expressed its thanks to Phillip, who will continue to In December, following further search activity, the Committee serve on the Board, for his service as SID and in particular for his considered the appointment of Kate Barker who had a broad ranging leadership of my succession as Chairman in 2015 16. career as a top level business economist, good knowledge of global economies and markets, and was an experienced non-executive Future planning director.
The Committee noted the positive feedback on Kate from The Committee continues, in the interests of the ongoing refreshing and interviews with me, Luke Ellis and Committee members and considered strengthening of our Board, to look for suitable candidates for future that she would be a valuable adviser and contributor to the business in non-executive appointments.
Feedback from the 2016 Committee terms of strategic thinking, economic insight and understanding of evaluation, further details of which are given on page 63, recognised financial markets.
Following the Committees recommendation and the the diversity challenge and identified a number of additional capabilities receipt of FCA approval, the Board approved Kates appointment as a which we will build into our future non-executive search specification.
non-executive director with effect from 1 April 2017.
62 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Improving our effectiveness Following the external Committee evaluation carried out in 2015, I decided to conduct my own internal discussions with Committee members on the operation of the Committee during 2016 and on how we could improve our effectiveness.
Summary feedback from these conversations and areas agreed for future focus are set out below: Strengths There was general satisfaction with the way the Committee had managed the extensive changes in the executive management team during the year.
The current composition, expertise and level of commitment on the Board was considered to be good.
The high proportion of executive NEDs on the Board was seen as beneficial.
Opportunities To provide Board balance, it was suggested that new NED appointments should not be full time executives.
The Committee noted the diversity challenge for future recruitment and identified the following specific capabilities which might usefully be added to the Board in future non-executive searches: direct experience of fund management: international and in particular US exposure: and legal or regulatory background.
As regards the operation of the Committee, there was support for a reduced streamlined membership which was approved by the Board and implemented at the end of the year as noted earlier in this report.
The Committee also recognised the value of nonexecutive discussion on people and succession issues outside formal Board and Committee meetings and agreed that non-executive dinners should be arranged for this purpose in the course of 2017.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 63
