54 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out a summary of and can be found on our website at The Policy remains to attract, retain and M&Ss policy on remuneration for marksandspencer.
motivate our leaders and ensure they are executive and non-executive directors.
The Policy took eff ect from this date and focused on delivering business priorities The Policy in full was approved by may operate for up to three years.
within a framework designed to promote shareholders at the AGM on 8 July 2014 the long-term success of M&S, aligned with our shareholders interests.
SUMMARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS APPROVED ON 8 JULY 2014 FIGURE 1: SUMMARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE ELEMENT OPERATION OPPORTUNITY Salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee, considering a number of factors, including: Annual increases are normally in line Base salary with those in the wider workforce, Salary increases in the wider M&S workforce.
although no maximum is set.
The experience, responsibility and contribution of the individual.
Individual adjustments may be made Salaries for comparable roles in appropriate comparator groups in appropriate circumstances e. g. such as major retailers and our peer group of FTSE 25-75 companies.
where the role scope has changed or as part of salary progression for newly-appointed directors.
In line with our policies, executive directors are eligible to receive bene ts which may include: There is no set maximum, Bene ts however any provision will be A car or cash allowance and a driver.
commensurate with local markets Life assurance.
and for all-employee shares schemes, the local statutory limits.
Relocation and tax equalisation allowances in line with our mobility policies.
As with all employees, directors are also off ered other bene ts including: Employee discount.
Participation in our all-employee share schemes.
Executive directors may choose to: A maximum of 25% of salary Pension for executive directors 30% for bene ts Participate in our fide ned contribution pension scheme: or the CEO.
Receive cash payments in lieu of pension contributions.
The fide ned bene t pension scheme is closed to new members.
Directors who are members of this scheme will continue to accrue bene ts.
All directors are eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus Scheme, which is a discretionary, Total maximum annual bonus Annual Bonus non-contractual scheme.
Performance is measured against quanti able one-year financial opportunity is capped at 200% of Scheme and individual performance targets linked with the sustainable delivery of our business plan.
salary for each executive director.
including Targets are set at the start of the year and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
At least Deferred Share half of awards are measured against financial measures which typically includes Underlying Bonus Plan Group Pro t Before Tax PBT.
DSBP Corporate and individual elements may be earned independently, but no part of the individual objectives may be earned unless a threshold level of PBT has been achieved.
For threshold performance, up to 40% of maximum may be payable for the achievement of individual objectives.
At least half of any bonus earned is paid in shares which are deferred for three years.
The value of any dividends during the deferral period will be payable.
The Committee can, in circumstances it believes appropriate, reduce to zero unvested deferred share awards.
In certain circumstances, the Committee can also reclaim all or part of the cash bonus for up to three years after the payment date, for payments made after July 2015.
To encourage long-term shareholding, to retain directors and to provide greater alignment The maximum annual value Performance with shareholders interests, all directors are eligible to participate in the Performance Share of shares at grant is capped at Share Plan Plan.
This is a non-contractual, discretionary scheme and is M&Ss main long-term incentive 300% of salary for each PSP scheme.
Performance is measured against a balanced scorecard of three-year financial executive director.
measures set prior to grant.
Measures currently include Earnings per Share EPS and Return on Capital Employed ROCE.
The value of any dividends during the vesting period will be payable.
The Committee can, in circumstances it believes appropriate, reduce to zero unvested PSP awards.
In addition, the Committee can, for awards made after June 2015, reclaim all or part of vested awards for up to two years after the vesting date in certain speci ed circumstances.
55 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 FIND OUT MORE See Remuneration Report p58 See our Strategy p06-08 See our KPIs p18-21 Read our full Remuneration Policy at www.
com thecompany EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIGURE 2: RECRUITMENT POLICY & SERVICE CONTRACTS The table below summarises the Companys policy on the recruitment of new executive directors.
Similar considerations may also apply where a director is promoted within the Board.
ELEMENT APPROACH Service All executive directors have rolling contracts for service which may be terminated by M&S giving 12 months notice and the contract individual giving six months notice.
Base salary Salaries are set by the Committee, taking into consideration a number of factors including the current pay for other executive directors, the experience, skill and current pay level of the individual and external market forces.
The Committee may choose to set the salary below that of the market or the other directors with the intention of applying staged increases.
Bene ts The Committee will off er a bene ts package in line with our bene ts policy for executive directors.
The bene ts provided will appropriately re ect the individuals circumstances.
Pension Maximum contribution in line with our Policy.
bene ts Annual Bonus Maximum bonus potential will be capped at 200% of salary in line with our Policy.
Scheme PSP Maximum award of up to 300% of salary in line with our Policy.
Buy-out The Committee may off er compensatory payments or buy-out awards where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay awards opportunities or contractual rights as a result of their appointment with M&S.
The speci cs of any buy-out awards would be dependent on the individual circumstances of recruitment and would be determined on a case-by-case basis.
On assessing such awards, the Committee will seek to make awards on a like-for-like basis to ensure that the value awarded would be no greater than the value forfeited by the individual.
The Committee may choose to apply performance conditions to these awards.
In addition, the Committee in exceptional individual, subject to the limit on variable to the Board, the Committee would honour circumstances has discretion to include any remuneration set out above.
The rationale any pre-existing contractual remuneration other remuneration component or award for any such component would be arrangements which may be outside of the which it feels is appropriate, taking into appropriately disclosed.
For example, standard policy summarised on page 54. account the specic circumstances of the for internal promotional appointments FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 56 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED TERMINATION POLICY circumstances whereby a director may The full Policy sets out further detail leave the business.
In all circumstances, on the treatment of the executive The Company may choose to terminate the the Committee does not intend to reward directors pay arrangements, including the contract of any executive director in line failure and will make decisions based on treatment of share schemes in the event with the terms of their service agreement the individual circumstances ensuring they of a change of control or winding-up of the either by means of a payment in lieu of are in the best interests of the Company Company and some legacy long-term notice or through a series of phased and shareholders at that time, and reect incentive plans which the Company payments.
Service agreements may be the directors contractual and other operates.
No current executive director terminated without notice and without legal rights.
holds unexercised awards under these payments in certain circumstances, such legacy plans.
The table below summarises our termination policy for executive directors The Companys policy toward exit under their service agreement and the payments allows for a variety of incentive plan rules.
FIGURE 3: TERMINATION POLICY ELEMENT APPROACH Base salary, Payment made up to the termination date.
bene ts and pension bene ts Annual Bonus There is no contractual entitlement to a bonus payment.
If the director is under notice or not in active service at either the end of the bonus year or on the payment date, awards and any unvested deferred bonus shares may lapse.
The Committee may, Scheme however, use its discretion to make a bonus award, typically pro-rated for time and based on the performance assessed at the end of the bonus year.
Long-term The treatment of outstanding share awards is determined in the accordance with the respective plan rules.
incentive Where a director leaves in certain circumstances, for performance share awards held for at least 12 months, awards typically awards vest at the end of the relevant performance period to the extent to which any performance conditions are met and are pro-rated for time.
The plan rules allow for the Committee to permit these awards to vest at the time the director leaves and to not apply time pro-rating.
Repatriation M&S may pay for repatriation where a director has been recruited from overseas.
Legal Where a director leaves by mutual consent, M&S may reimburse for reasonable legal fees and pay for professional expenses & outplacement services.
outplacement CONSIDERATION OF WIDER WORKFORCE PAY & SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee monitors and reviews the The Committee receives updates on a The Committee is committed to an open eff ectiveness of the senior remuneration variety of employee engagement initiatives and transparent dialogue with its policy and has regard to its impact and including our annual Your Say employee shareholders.
The Committee annually compatibility with remuneration policies survey which asks employees about the engages in a process of investor in the wider workforce.
Throughout the year fairness and reasonableness of employee consultation, which is typically in written the Committee is provided with information pay and benets.
Where appropriate, the Committee and context on pay in the wider workforce in our Business Involvement Groups are will actively engage with shareholders and to enable its decision-making.
This includes annually provided with an explanation of shareholder representative bodies, seeking the approach for UK pay review, the total the executive directors pay arrangements views which may be taken into account annual bonus cost budget and PSP awards during the year, and are able to ask when making any decisions about changes to be made to directors below the Board.
questions on the arrangements and their to the directors Remuneration Policy.
t with the other reward polices at this time.
The Committee Chairman is available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting AGM and the answers to specic questions are posted on our website.
57 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 SUMMARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS APPROVED ON 8 JULY 2014 The table below summarises our Policy for the operation of non-executive director fees and benets at the Company.
FIGURE 4: SUMMARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE ELEMENT OPERATION AND OPPORTUNITY Service All non-executive directors have an agreement for an initial three-year term.
The Chairmans agreement requires six months agreements notice by either party.
The non-executive directors agreements may be terminated by either party giving three months notice.
Chairmans Fees are reviewed annually by the Committee taking into consideration: fees Time commitment, demands and responsibility of the role.
The maximum aggregate fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors is 750,000 p. a. as set out in our Articles of Association.
Non-executive Fees are reviewed annually by the executive directors taking into consideration: director Time commitment, scope and responsibility of the role.
basic fee External market practice.
The maximum aggregate fees for the non-executive directors, including the Chairmans fee, is 750,000 p. a. as set out in our Articles of Association.
Additional fees Additional fees are paid for undertaking the extra responsibilities of: Board Chairman.
Bene ts In line with our other employees, the Chairman and non-executive directors are entitled to receive employee discount.
The Chairman is also entitled to the use of a car and driver.
No further bene ts are provided to the Chairman or non-executive directors.
Recruitment The Committee takes into account a number of factors when determining an appropriate fee level for the Chairman.
The CEO and executive directors determine appropriate fee levels for the non-executive directors and take into account the time commitment, role responsibility and market practice in our comparator groups when doing so.
M&S may off er bene ts to the Chairman in line with our Policy.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
