40 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee and the Board have en ens sured that development, mentoring and continued assessment remain key agenda items.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION speci cation for each appointment with The eff ectiveness of our emergency a clear understanding of the attributes planning was tested following the Earlier in this report I provided detail on the and values required to help the eff ective resignation of John Dixon, Executive Board changes during the year.
Succession functioning of the whole Board.
Steve Rowe moved from and director development have been key explicitly acknowledges the need for Food, which he had run successfully for areas of focus for the Committee this diversity in its composition and in three years, to take over from John.
Andy year, culminating with the appointment particular, that there should be a strong Adcock, who had worked closely with Steve, of Steve Rowe as the new CEO, and the representation of women.
was appointed to lead Food.
In addition, appointment of a non-executive director, we reallocated responsibilities to cover Andrew Fisher.
Emergency succession planning is also Laura Wade-Gerys maternity leave.
an important area of discussion for the For the CEO and executive director Committee, ensuring the business Development for directors and high appointment, selection is based on develops a framework with clearly performing individuals below Board level the experience and skills required for identi ed individuals capable of covering has been an essential area of focus.
speci c roles, for which a speci cation is key management roles on an interim basis.
Coaching and mentoring is provided to developed and agreed.
For the succession All these individuals then receive the develop and enhance speci c skill sets, of non-executives, the Nomination necessary coaching to ensure they have and the Committee believes the bene ts Committee considers the combination the required skills to provide any critical of this approach are critical for developing of skills and experience required to ful ll support when needed.
our own talent for the future.
There is a well-fide ned EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Committee review following Steves appointment as CEO.
Nomination Committee activity The Committees performance was In order to ensure independence, the The Committee held a signi cant number internally evaluated this year by the Group Committee decided that its membership of unscheduled meetings to support Secretary.
The Committee has had a busy should only include independent nonCEO succession.
It continued to support year and its remit and eff ectiveness were executive directors.
Therefore, Steve will succession and development of the tested, both in terms of succession and not be joining the Nomination Committee executive directors, implemented emergency planning.
The Committee as a member, however, he will attend development initiatives for senior considered its composition during the year Committee meetings when invited.
executives, international business school training, executive coaching and nonMEMBER ATTENDANCE MEMBER NUMBER OF MAXIMUM % executive director mentoring.
Committee SINCE MEETINGS POSSIBLE OF MEETINGS members also participated in several ATTENDED MEETINGS ATTENDED employee-focused and diversity-based initiatives, giving increased access to the 3 Sept 2011 5 5 100% Vindi Banga organisation, direct employee feedback 1 May 2010 5 5 100% and greater visibility of high potential Marc Bolland talent.
1 Jan 2014 5 5 100% Alison Brittain ACTION PLAN 2016 17 Continue to review succession plans 3 Feb 2012 5 5 100% Miranda Curtis for the Board and key roles across the business: 1 Dec 2015 2 2 100% Andrew Fisher Continue to identify future talent 1 June 2007 5 5 100% Martha Lane Fox pipeline: Review development initiatives for 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% Andy Halford directors: and 13 Apr 2015 5 5 100% Richard Solomons Continue to identify opportunities for broader business engagement.
4 Oct 2010 5 5 100% Robert Swannell 41 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY the Fit to Lead the Future programme, representation on the Board.
The Board Fit For the Future Leadership journey, con rms that neither Egon Zehnder or JCA Since the launch of the Board Diversity Line Manager focus and Emerging has any other connection with the Company.
Policy in 2012, the Board has made progress Leaders approach.
in broadening the diversity of the Board Report annually against these objectives and senior management.
In 2015, the Board The Leadership Development Service has and other initiatives taking place within reviewed the policy to ensure that it been in place for two years and continues the Company which promote gender and continues to drive the bene ts of a diverse to identify and partner key senior talent other forms of diversity.
Board and workforce across the business.
across the business, broadening their The Board has made strong progress against The Board agreed that the ambitions and skillsets and experience to prepare them the key policy objectives during the year, objectives set out in the policy remain for future opportunities.
This has been as reported above.
relevant targets against which to measure supported through greater boardroom our progress.
exposure, non-executive and Trustee In addition, the business has continued to roles outside of M&S, and participation promote diversity with the introduction or For further information on employee in mentoring schemes.
continuation of key initiatives: diversity, including gender, ethnicity and age, see p23 of our Plan A Report Access to International Business The annual Board evaluation process marksandspencer.
includes an assessment of the Boards diversity including gender, helping to BOARD DIVERSITY: PROGRESS UPDATE Senior management mentoring and objectively consider its composition coaching schemes, including individual Maintain a level of at least 30% female and eff ectiveness.
leadership assessments, and nondirectors on the Board over the short executive director sponsored lunches The M&S Inspiring Womens Network, to medium term.
launched in 2014, continues to support the As highlighted earlier in the report, changes progress of women in our business, giving Consider candidates for appointment as to the Board were made during the year to access to a range of role models, providing non-executive directors from a wider pool, 2 April, experienced two retirements and one informal mentoring and networking including those with little or no listed resignation.
Despite the reduced overall size opportunities, and creating a forum for company board experience.
of the Board, the percentage of women on discussion to explore and address the the Board remains strong at 36% at time of During the year, the Nomination Committee career challenges women face.
The charts on page 33 provide discussed the successional needs of the Continued involvement in the a clearer picture of our Board diversity.
Board in respect of its non-executive government-backed 30% Club, an directors, and continues to work closely with The Board remains committed to organisation committed to increasing executive search agencies in compiling long maintaining at least a 30% female female representation on UK Boards.
and short lists of candidates.
During the representation on the Board, whilst ensuring search for the most recent appointments, The MBA Leadership Programme is in its that diversity in its broadest sense remains the Board identi ed and interviewed a range fifth year, recruiting and developing a central feature.
However, the Nomination of candidates from various backgrounds talented MBA graduates from international Committee will continue to recommend and industries, all of whom were measured business schools: to date intake into the appointments to the Board based on merit, against criteria agreed at the start of the programme has been over 50% women.
measured against objective criteria and the process.
The Chairman also meets informally skills and experience the individual off ers.
A number of programmes to help people with a range of people introduced by third in our communities, including Marks & The Board is also committed to parties or through direct approaches.
Start, Marks & Start Logistics and Make strengthening the pipeline of senior female Although we do not currently openly Your Mark are successfully helping young executives within the business and has taken advertise our non-executive director people, the homeless, lone parents and steps to ensure that there are no barriers positions, we appreciate the bene t of this those with disabilities, to nd work in our to women succeeding at the highest levels approach and will keep this under review.
Ensure long lists of potential nonReport annually on the outcome of the In 2016, M&S was again listed in The Times executive directors include 50% Board evaluation, the composition and Top 50 Employers for Women for the sixth female candidates.
structure of the Board as well as any year running.
The Board remains committed to ensuring issues and challenges the Board is facing Assist the development of a pipeline of that high-performing women from within the when considering the diverse make-up high-calibre candidates by encouraging business and from a variety of backgrounds, of the Company.
a broad range of senior individuals within who have the requisite skills, are given We continue to regard the Board evaluation the business to take on additional roles greater exposure to the nomination process as an important means of to gain valuable Board experience.
Full details of the again, the Board met its commitment, and During the year, the Board continued to 2015 16 Board evaluation and the Action all non-executive director long lists in focus on strengthening the pipeline of Plan are on page 39.
We remain committed 2015 16 included 50% female candidates.
executive talent in the Company.
It remains to getting the right balance of internal committed to learning and building on Only engage executive search rms versus external hires and work towards existing programmes while introducing new who have signed up to the voluntary understanding and managing some of the initiatives to broaden and develop the strong Code of Conduct on gender diversity challenges we face, such as: talent which exists across the business.
International management experience Key initiatives include: The Board continues to support the nine re ective of the customers and principles of the Executive Search Firms communities we serve: and A comprehensive talent review presented Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender to the Board annually, mapping Any challenges women face in reaching diversity, demonstrated by remaining successional candidates and opportunities regional management positions and committed to only engaging executive across all senior roles within the business.
search rms who are signatories to this code.
A thorough refresh of our approach to During the year, we worked closely with Egon talent development through the Zehnder and JCA, and maintained our focus introduction of new initiatives, including on the targets and ambitions around female FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
