42 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee continue to challenge the risk and assurance programme, ensuring it is embedded throughout the business.
ANDY HALFORD CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION Committee assessed and the Committees mitigated throughout the organisation, opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as well as helping the Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am as a whole, including how it has assessed members understand the progress being pleased to present the Audit Committees the narrative reporting in the front of the made towards the strategic objectives.
report for the year ended 2 April 2016. report to accurately re ect the financial The updates provide us with an opportunity Over the following pages we share statements in the back.
to challenge, discuss and debate with the discussions from the boardroom and presenters whilst sharing our experience This report also shares some of the insight provide insight into the workings of the and providing an independent perspective.
we received from the executive updates Audit Committee and its activities in presented to us from across the business.
Looking forward to the next 12 months, the year, as well as update you on the These continue to provide the Committee the Committee will continue to focus on eff ectiveness of our statutory auditor with real insight into the businesss the audit, assurance, and risk processes Deloitte and the fees they received for challenges and its aspirations.
These also within the business, as well as monitor non-audit work undertaken.
It provides an tell us how the risks are being managed and changes in EU and UK regulation.
overview of the signi cant issues the Audit EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As part of the annual review of the AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITY Supported the work to draft the eff ectiveness of the Committee, fide nitions of risk appetite for the business.
Remained focused on the audit, assurance the expertise of the members is Reviewed the design and scope of the and risk processes within the business, considered and reviewed.
The Board assurance plan, with particular focus and maintained oversight of financial is satis ed that the Committee on key strategic priorities.
members bring a wide range and Received and discussed speci c Reviewed the Groups system of internal depth of financial and commercial business presentations relating to control and risk management, and any experience across various industries, risks within the Group Risk Pro le.
changes in accounting policies and and that Andy Halford meets the Reviewed formal announcements on impact on our financial statements.
speci c requirement for recent the Groups financial performance, Discussed and reviewed the nonand relevant financial experience.
including an assessment of the underlying items that may impact estimates and judgements.
the performance of the business.
Reviewed the process and timeline Some members of senior management for assessing the eff ectiveness of the are invited to attend the Audit Committee external auditor.
meeting to provide technical business Provided oversight of particular information as needed.
Therefore, we business risks including International allocated speci c time for Committee retail and ethical sourcing.
members to meet without management present, prior to each meeting.
At the end MEMBER ATTENDANCE % MEMBER NUMBER OF MAXIMUM of each Committee meeting we meet SINCE MEETINGS POSSIBLE OF MEETINGS ATTENDED separately with the lead audit partner from ATTENDED MEETINGS Deloitte and the Head of Internal Audit & 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% Risk, to provide an opportunity to discuss Andy Halford Chairman matters without executive management 11 Mar 2014 5 5 100% being present.
In addition, I regularly hold Alison Brittain separate one-to-one meetings with the Chief Finance Offi cer, Director of Group 4 Mar 2015 4 5 80% Miranda Curtis Finance, Head of Internal Audit & Risk, other senior management, and with the 3 Feb 2016 1 1 100% Andrew Fisher Appointed 1 December 2015 lead audit partner.
These are usually before Committee meetings as this enables me 1 Jun 2007 5 5 100% to better understand the issues and any Martha Lane Fox Retired 2 April 2016 areas of concern, and to allow suffi cient time for meaningful discussion at the subsequent meeting.
43 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTION PLAN The Audit Committees performance good progress on the 2015 16 action The action plan for 2016 17: was reviewed within the framework of plan by continuing to focus on our Review the mitigating controls over the wider Board Eff ectiveness Review.
international business and ethical the Groups principal risks and assess The Committee received positive sourcing, monitoring the Group risk the level of assurance provided.
feedback on the way it challenges management process, and supporting Continue to support risk assurance the business and was seen as open, the development of the assurance plan.
mapping across the Group, with transparent and eff ective.
Areas of Looking ahead, the Committee will remain particular focus on strategic priorities.
improvement were highlighted, discussed focused on the audit, assurance and risk Increased oversight of the Boards and debated by the Committee, and processes within the business, and management of cyber security risk.
included as part of the action plan for strengthen its oversight of financial and Monitor and respond to the changing the coming year.
The Committee made other regulatory requirements.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS TENURE that information is presented with a culture WHAT WAS THE OUTCOME?
of right first time, that the quality of Deloitte were appointed by shareholders The results of the questionnaire were management papers is high, that robust as the Groups Statutory Auditor in examined, and feedback identi ed a good internal systems and controls are 2014 following a formal tender process.
understanding of the business and its maintained, that the audit process is The external audit contract will be put values, a joined-up approach towards respected and valued by the management out to tender at least every ten years.
signi cant issues for discussion, and a team, and that proposed audit adjustments team that off er robust challenge and The Committee recommend the are examined seriously.
Areas for improvement reappointment of Deloitte for 2016 17. believes that this framework provides a were identi ed in relation to better We believe the independence and robust process for monitoring auditor communication during the audit, and objectivity of the external auditor and eff ectiveness, and can be measured against more business insights.
the eff ectiveness of the audit process the findings of future external auditor are safeguarded and remain strong.
Looking forward, NON-AUDIT FEES The Company has complied with the the Committee will reassess the calendar A robust auditor engagement policy Statutory Audit Services Order for the timing of the eff ectiveness review to ensure is in place and adhered to.
It is financial year under review.
maximum insight and effi ciency is gained reviewed annually and disclosed on from the process.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR marksandspencer.
team selected to review the audit of the The approach to the assessment is tailored The business is committed to maintaining Companys 2014 15 financial statements to enable senior management to answer non-audit fees at a low level, and can report as part of their 2015 annual inspection of the detailed questions on the Companythat the non-audit fees to audit fees ratio audit rms.
The focus of the review and wide audit process, and provide the Audit for the year was 0.17:1, compared to 0.49:1 their reporting is on identifying areas where Committee with suffi cient detail to last year.
Of the total non-audit fees of improvements are required rather than establish an informed view on the overall 0.3m paid to Deloitte, 0.2m relates to highlighting areas performed to or above effi ciency, integrity and eff ectiveness of assurance services in relation to the Half the expected level.
The Chairman of the the external audit.
Year review, turnover certi cates, and EMTN Audit Committee received a full copy of Questionnaires were tailored to the renewal.
It is normal practice for such the findings of the AQR team and has following target groups: assurance services to be provided by the discussed these with Deloitte.
Whilst there Companys statutory auditor.
A number were no signi cant findings, some matters 1.
Chief Finance Offi cer and Director of smaller non-assurance services were were identi ed as requiring improvement of Group Financial Control: A full provided, including in relation to taxation and we have agreed an action plan with questionnaire was completed, covering compliance in the International business, Deloitte to ensure the matters identi ed all areas of the audit process, and in and these amounted to 0.1m.
by the AQR have been addressed in consideration of the questionnaire the audit of the Companys 2015 16 completed by the Heads of Finance for Where non-audit work is performed by financial statements.
Food, Clothing & Home and International.
Deloitte, both the Company and Deloitte ensure robust processes to prevent 2.
Heads of Finance: Food, Clothing EFFECTIVENESS auditor objectivity and independence and Home and International: Shorter The assessment of the eff ectiveness from being compromised.
questionnaire, focusing on the audit team, of our external auditor is based on a planning, challenge and interaction with All non-audit work performed by Deloitte framework setting out the key areas of the business.
was put to the Audit Committee for the audit process for the Audit Committee consideration and approval, regardless 3.
Audit Committee: A high level set to consider, as well as the role that of size.
of questions with speci c focus on the management has contributed to an audit partner, planning, execution, eff ective process.
Further details on non-audit services value, communication and challenge.
provided by Deloitte can be found in The framework provides the Audit The Committee had access to copies of the note 4 on page 96.
Committee with a mechanism to encourage completed finance questionnaires sections management to improve standards in a 1 and 2 above to assist their considerations.
These include ensuring FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 44 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE UPDATES SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The Committee receives a detailed PROPERTY, FIRE, HEALTH, AND SAFETY The Audit Committee has assessed whether suitable accounting policies have been update from the business at each Updated on the property Fire Health adopted and whether management has made committee meeting, with one or more and Safety Management FHSM Plan appropriate judgements and estimates.
Business updates are which includes safety arrangements, planned on a rolling 12-month basis and monitoring performance, and Throughout the year, the finance team has reviewed at every meeting.
worked closely with Deloitte to ensure that identi ed by internal audit as in need the business is transparent and provides the Discussed the management of electrical of discussion is added to the agenda of required level of disclosure regarding signi cant safety and the policies and a future meeting.
Some of the 2015 16 issues considered by the Committee in relation arrangements in place.
updates are listed below: to the financial statements, as well as how these Updated on the improvements to issues were addressed, whilst being mindful of CASTLE DONINGTON DISTRIBUTION matters that may be business sensitive.
international governance, including CENTRE RESILIENCE a third-party FHSM inspection plan, and The main areas of judgement that have been Updated on Business Continuity, our global minimum standard for FHSM.
considered by the Committee to ensure that including contingency options appropriate rigour has been applied are Noted the continued partnership with and embedding the plan for outlined in this section.
All accounting policies Birmingham City Council for Health e-commerce ful lment.
can be found in note 1 on pages 90-94.
& Safety and the West Midlands Where further information is provided in the Discussed the triggers to the business Fire Service for re safety, as well as notes to the financial statements, we have continuity action plan and the service partnerships with local NHS Ambulance included the note reference.
standards required to protect the Trusts and emergency responders.
Company in the situation of a triggered Each of the areas of judgement below has event, as well as consideration of GROSS MARGIN AND been identi ed as an area of focus and customer expectations.
ETHICAL SOURCING therefore the Committee has also received detailed reporting from Deloitte.
Updated on the improvements in gross Discussed the link between Castle margin and sourcing strategy, key drivers Donington and store inventories.
IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL, BRANDS to delivering the target growth in the TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS plan, and key areas of risk.
CYBER SECURITY The Committee has considered the Updated on the cyber security measures Noted the internal risks and impacts of assessments made in relation to the in place at M&S, and noted the proactive external factors, including wage in ation impairment of goodwill, brands, tangible approach adopted by the business.
and currency volatility risk, and and intangible xed assets, including land discussed mitigating actions.
and buildings, store assets and software assets.
Discussed the protection around The Committee received detailed reports customer data, including encryption Discussed supplier relationships and from management outlining the treatment and regular reviews of the security changes to team structure within our measures in place.
Sourcing Offi ces, leading to a change in culture.
Updated on the external review of the FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE companys cyber security systems, Updated on the ethical trading At the request of the Board, the Committee has which were assessed against an approach, including M&S standards and considered whether, in its opinion, the 2015 16 external framework, and considered auditing, noting independent ethical Annual Report and Financial Statements is fair, the proposed improvement plan.
audits undertaken by an accredited third balanced and understandable, and whether it party on all factories used by M&S.
Agreed regular updates be provided provides the information necessary for to the Committee throughout the year.
Discussed the ethical compliance shareholders to assess the Groups position monitoring process, reporting structure, and performance, business model and strategy.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY and escalation procedures, and The structure of the report continues to improvements made in this area.
Updated on progress made in the provide a strong focus on the key strategic international business following the messages in the Strategic Report, whilst GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE implementation of several initiatives, ensuring these changes do not dilute the level including the increased levels of crisis Updated on the improvements to the of transparency in disclosure that we know is management training.
whistleblowing policy, anti-bribery useful for stakeholders, and that the business policy, and Code of ethics and continues to provide a clear message that is Discussed the current national threat behaviours, including stronger employee re ective of the Company as a whole.
level, level of preparedness with the awareness and compliance monitoring.
introduction of shopping centre retail A broad outline of the structure the Annual park preparedness assessments, and Discussed and reviewed the process Report was given to the Committee early in key areas of improvement.
undertaken by the Board to assess the the planning process, along with a similarly long-term viability of the business.
The Committee Discussed the strategy and focus for received a full draft of the report some two 2016 17 which includes international Updated on international compliance, weeks prior to the meeting at which it would retail and sourcing, cyber security, and noted key risks and mitigating be requested to provide its final opinion.
actions, and the continued support Feedback was provided by the Committee in from Head Offi ce to the local teams.
advance of that meeting, highlighting any areas where the Committee believed further clarity was required.
The draft report was then 45 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 of impairments, valuation methodology, the underlying measures in accordance with the RETIREMENT BENEFITS basis for key assumptions discount rate and Group accounting policy.
This policy states that The Committee has reviewed the actuarial long-term growth rate and the key drivers of adjustments are only made to reported pro t assumptions such as discount rate, in ation the cash ow forecasts.
The Committee has before tax where income and charges are onerate, expected return of scheme assets and challenged management and is satis ed that off in nature, signi cant, and distort the Groups mortality which determine the pension cost these are appropriate.
The Committee has underlying performance.
The Committee and the UK fide ned bene t scheme valuation, also understood the sensitivity analysis used received detailed reports from management and has concluded that they are appropriate.
by management in their review of goodwill outlining the judgements applied in relation to The assumptions have been disclosed in the and brand impairment.
In addition, the the disclosure of non-underlying items.
See note 11 on p102-105 business plans detailing managements current year, management has included pro t expectations of future performance of the on property disposal and impairments of REVENUE RECOGNITION IN RELATION TO businesses are considered by the Board.
properties where commitment to close has REFUNDS, GIFT CARDS AND LOYALTY The Committee is satis ed that appropriate been demonstrated, restructuring costs, SCHEMES impairment of tangible and intangible assets signi cant and one-off impairment charges Revenue accruals for sales returns and has been recognised.
See notes 5, 14 and 15 and provisions, fair value movement of deferred income in relation to loyalty scheme on pages 97, 98, 108 & 109 financial instruments and the reduction in M&S redemptions and gift card and credit voucher Bank income for the impact of the financial redemptions are estimated based on historical INVENTORY VALUATION AND product mis-selling provision within this returns and redemptions.
The Committee has PROVISIONING category.
This was an area of focus for the considered the basis of these accruals, along Committee in the current year due to the Inventory provisions include stock in transit, with analysis of historical returns and number and value of these items 200.8m obsolete stock, net realisable value below cost redemption rates and has agreed with the charge.
In addition, the current year is a and stock loss provisions.
The Committee has judgements reached by management.
53-week statutory reporting period so examined management papers outlining the consideration had been given to the balance judgements made regarding provisioning for SUPPLIER INCOME of 52-week and 53-week metrics reported inventory balances and is satis ed that a throughout the Annual Report.
52-week This continues to be monitored closely by suffi ciently robust process was followed to measures have been quoted to ensure management and robust controls are in place con rm quantities of inventory and that net meaningful comparison with last years to ensure appropriate recognition in the realisable value of inventory exceeds its cost 52-week period.
Following detailed review correct period.
The Committee are satis ed at year end.
and active discussion with management the with managements conclusion that there is Committee has concluded that the no risk of material misstatement.
Enhanced PRESENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL presentation of non-underlying items and 52 disclosure has been made again in the current STATEMENTS and 53-week metrics throughout the Annual year through publication of the accounting The Committee gave consideration to the Report and Financial Statements is appropriate.
policy and disclosing the eff ects of supplier presentation of the financial statements and See note 5 on p97 income on certain balance sheet accounts.
in particular the presentation of the nonamended to incorporate this feedback prior Are the key messages in the narrative How do these compare with the risks that to being tabled at the Audit Committee re ected in the financial reporting?
Deloitte plan to include in their report?
meeting for final comment and approval.
Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate IS THE REPORT UNDERSTANDABLE?
The Committee was provided with a list of the level based on the financial reporting?
Is there a clear and understandable key messages included in the Annual Report, framework to the report?
highlighting which were positive and which IS THE REPORT BALANCED?
were re ective of the challenges from the Is there a good level of consistency Are the important messages highlighted year.
A supporting document was also between the narrative reporting in the appropriately throughout the document?
provided speci cally addressing the following front and the financial reporting in the back Is the layout clear with good linkage listed points, highlighting where these could of the report, and does the messaging throughout in a manner that re ects the be evidenced within the report.
re ected in each remain consistent when whole story?
read independently of each other?
When forming its opinion, the Committee re ected on the information it had received Is the Annual Report properly a document CONCLUSION and its discussions throughout the year.
Following its review, the Committee was In particular, the Committee considered: of the opinion that the 2016 Annual Report Are the statutory and adjusted measures and Accounts is representative of the explained clearly with appropriate IS THE REPORT FAIR?
year and presents a fair, balanced and prominence?
Is the whole story presented and has any understandable overview, providing the sensitive material been omitted that should Are the key judgements referred to in necessary information for shareholders to have been included?
the narrative reporting and the signi cant assess the Groups position, performance, issues reported in this Audit Committee business model and strategy.
Is the reporting on the business segments Report consistent with the disclosures of in the narrative reporting consistent with key estimation uncertainties and critical those used for the financial reporting in the judgements set out in the financial financial statements?
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 46 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ASSURANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Board assumes ultimate responsibility The Board has delegated responsibility for 3.
Other control agencies Responsible for the eff ective management of risk across reviewing the eff ectiveness of the Groups for maintaining control over critical areas the Group, determining its risk appetite as systems of internal control to the Audit of risk, the processes and controls of these well as ensuring that each business area Committee.
This covers all material controls agencies are tested by Internal Audit & Risk implements appropriate internal controls.
including financial, operational and during relevant audits.
An overview of these The Groups risk management systems are compliance controls and risk management agencies and the manner in which they designed to manage rather than eliminate systems.
The Committee is supported by provide assurance to the Committee is the risk of failure to achieve business a number of sources of internal assurance indicated in the table below.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable from within the Group in order to complete The Group was compliant throughout and not absolute assurance against these reviews, in particular: the year with the provisions of the UK material misstatement or loss.
Internal Audit The Groups primary Corporate Governance Code relating to See p27-29 of the Strategic Report for more source of internal assurance remains internal controls and the FRCs revised information on our material risks.
delivery of the Internal Audit Plan, which is Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
structured to align with the Groups No signi cant failings or weaknesses were See p47-48 for further information on our strategic priorities and key risks and is identi ed during the Committees review in risk management processes.
developed by Internal Audit with input from respect of the year ended 2 April 2016 and The key features of the Groups internal management.
Recommendations from up to the date of this Annual Report.
control and risk management systems Internal Audit are communicated to the Where the Committee identi ed areas that ensure the accuracy and reliability of relevant business area for implementation requiring improvement, processes are in financial reporting include clearly fide ned of appropriate corrective measures, with place to ensure that the necessary action lines of accountability and delegation of results reported to the Committee.
is taken and that progress is monitored.
authority, policies and procedures that 2. Business Presentations Focusing cover financial planning and reporting, Further details of these processes can primarily on the key risks identi ed in the preparing consolidated accounts, capital be found within our detailed Corporate Group Risk Pro le, management continues expenditure, project governance and Governance Statement which is available to to provide updates to the Committee on information security, and the Groups Code view in the Corporate Governance section how these are managed in individual of Ethics and Behaviours.
These are complemented by independent reviews conducted by Andy Halford Internal Audit.
Audit Committee Chairman INTERNAL ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK COMMITTEES Existing direct line of reporting Fire, Health Plan A Business & Safety Continuity ANNUAL UPDATE BY RELEVANT EXECUTIVE REPORTS Formal updates Information Whistle blowing GSCOP Bribery Code of Ethics AUDIT Security & Fraud Grocery Supplier and Behaviours COMMITTEE Code of Practice ANNUAL PAPER OTHER CONTROL AGENCIES Updates as requested Food Safety & Integrity Ethical Audits appropriate Trading Safely & Legally AUDIT TESTING BY INTERNAL AUDIT AS APPROPRIATE Reports directly to the Group Board.
