CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 Dear Shareholder, The Committee reviewed the significant financial judgements I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for 2016. made during the year and in the preparation of the 2016 Financial Itsets out the Audit Committees objectives and responsibilities Statements.
The significant areas considered by the Committee and also explains the activities undertaken during the year and the in2016 were inventory provisioning, revenue and rebate recognition priorities for 2017.
This report, which is part of the Directors Report, and the potential for management override of controls.
explains how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities The Committee provided assurance to the Board on whether the during 2016.
2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee financial reporting and arefair, balanced andunderstandable.
toreview the ongoing effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
A review of cyber security controls was undertaken by KPMG LLP as The Committee provides assurance on the Groups risk management part of a wider Cyber Security Review.
A number of recommendations processes and assesses information received from the external and have been, or are in the process of being, addressed.
This report explains the Groups procedures in During the year the Committee commissioned KPMG LLP to relation to internal control, risk management and financial reporting.
reviewthe delegation of powers to operational management and KPMG LLP, who were appointed to carry out the internal audit in 2015, the appropriateness of authorisation limits across all functional conducted 8 separate detailed reviews during 2016 and reported to areas.
The Committee is satisfied that robust controls arein place the Committee with recommendations, all of which have been that cover delegation of authority procedures across the Group.
implemented or will be implemented during 2017.
One of our key During the year a high level review of strategic risk was undertaken priorities remains to monitor the risk management and control by the Committee which was subsequently integrated into the environment, ensuring that it aligns with best practice and that overall Risk Register.
anyimprovements are implemented in a timely and efficient way.
Cyber security remained a key priority during 2016.
Other areas OUR FUTURE TARGETS offocus and further details in relation to the Committees activities Continue to oversee the significant financial judgements made during the year are provided in this report.
The Committee has reviewed the Groups Financial Statements Continue to assess the effectiveness of riskmanagement systems contained in this Annual Report and, following its review, is satisfied and internal controlprocesses.
that the Committee has provided assurance to the Board that they Continue to review the delivery of the external and internal audit present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the and monitor progress.
Continue to assess and improve cyber security controls and toensure that IT controls remain appropriate and robust.
Mark Edwards Chair of the Audit Committee Continue to review the findings from internal audit reviews undertaken by KPMG LLP and monitor the implementation of recommendations made in these reports and the status of progress made against previously agreed actions.
There are8individual internal audit reviews planned for 2017 and theseinclude: a further cyber security audit: ongoing cyclical reviews of key financial processes, including the payments cycle: a supply chain review, including supplier selection and third party contract management: and a review of the Groups budget process.
Continue to monitor changes in external regulatory environment and best practice.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS Mark Edwards Chair Janet Ashdown Tim Pile Committee Terms of Reference www.
co. uk documents 66 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Role and responsibilities Effectiveness of the Audit Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee are: During the year an external evaluation of the Committees performance was undertaken as part of the Board evaluation to keep under review the Groups financial and other systems conducted by Equity Communications, an independent external andcontrols and financial reporting procedures: evaluator.
The review found the Committee to be effective and to plan and scope the annual audit and half-yearly audit wellrun.
Noareas of concern were highlighted during this review.
review, receive audit reports and review financial statements, The Chairman of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the taking account of accounting policies adopted and applicable Board is satisfied he is independent and has recent and relevant : financial experience as required by the Code.
Other members also to review the Annual Report and Financial Statements and have relevant sectoral and financial experience.
Their biographical advisethe Board on whether they give a fair, balanced and details are on pages 34 and 35, and attendance at meetings is shown understandable explanation of the Companys business and on page 40. performance over the relevant period: Financial reporting to conduct a detailed review of internal controls and the internal The Committee has reviewed, with both management and the audit process and report findings at least twice yearly to the Board: external auditor, where the more significant judgements have been made and the quality and appropriateness of the Groups accounting to review and update the Companys Risk Register: policies.
The Committee has also reviewed the assumptions and to review external auditor independence and audit and non-audit provided assurance to support the long-term viability statement.
fees, to review and monitor the appropriateness of the provision The Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were reviewed by the ofnon-audit services by the auditor, and make recommendations FRCs Conduct Committee under Part 2 of its Operations Procedures.
regarding audit tender and the appointment and remuneration Those matters that were drawn to the Boards attention through this ofthe auditor: and review have been addressed in this years Annual Report and Accounts.
to review the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, the Serious The FRC review gives no assurance as to the accuracy of the accounts Concerns Policy and other policies relevant to financial security, and may not be relied on.
The FRC has no liability to any third party.
The Audit Committee is the body appointed by the Board with responsibility for carrying out the functions required by the Listing Rules DTR 7.1.
The Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
How the Audit Committee operates During the year, the Audit Committee held 4 formal meetings and there were also meetings between the Audit Committee Chairman, the Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee meets both the external and internal auditor independently of management, giving the opportunity to ensure that it has full visibility of matters that have been the subject of particular discussions.
The Committee also reports to the Board in relation to the going concern statement and the viability statement and whether the accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued The Group has an established internal control framework, the Significant issues related to the Financial Statements When reviewing the annual and half-yearly results, the Committee keyfeatures of which include clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures and a comprehensive budget and monthly exercises its judgement in relation to matters drawn to its attention by the Finance Director from the internal audit function, the Risk reporting system.
The internal control framework governs the internal financial reporting process of the business, with checks and balances Committee and the Groups external auditor.
The significant areas considered by the Committee for 2016 were: built into the system that are designed to reduce the likelihood of material error or fraud.
Revenue and rebate recognition managements assessment The Audit Committee has carried out an assessment of the oftheappropriate level of accruals to recognise for rebates due to customers at the year-end.
The Committee discussed the policy effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control system, covering all material controls including its financial, operational onrebate recognition with operational management.
The external auditor presented its findings with regard to the audit testing and compliance controls and risk management systems for the year to 31 December 2016. inthis area to the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied with thecontrols and procedures that support the timeliness and The Group maintains a written Risk Register that identifies the completeness of recognition of rebates dueto customers.
Groups key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring and the impact they would have on the Group.
Against each risk, the effectiveness The risk of management override of controls managements assessment of the control framework including authorisation of the controls that exist to manage and, where possible, minimise or eliminate those risks are also listed.
The Risk Register process identifies controls and segregation of duties.
The Committee considered those areas where management applies judgement in areas for action and independent audit assessment in order to test the effectiveness of the Groups risk control systems.
Information relating determining the appropriate accounting and discussed this with the external auditor.
The external auditor presented its findings to the management of risks and any changes to the assessment of key risks is regularly reported to the Board, and the Risk Register is updated with regard to the audit testing of journals to the Committee.
Thistesting included the use of data analytics to profile the to reflect changes.
To the extent that any failings or weaknesses are identified during the review process, appropriate measures are entirejournal population.
The key risks affecting the Group, how they Inventory provisioning managements assessment of the relate to strategy and how they changed during the year, together appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence.
with a description of the controls and mitigation associated with Thegross levels of finished goods inventory held and the provisions such risks, are highlighted in the Strategic Review on pages 20 to 24. recorded against obsolescence and in respect of items that might be External audit, auditor independence and objectivity sold at lower than cost were reviewed by the Committee.
Thereview The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a included meetings with operational management todiscuss the recommendation to the Board on the appointment, re-appointment inventory provisioning strategy.
The external auditor presented its and removal of the external auditor.
It keeps under review the scope findings with regard to the audit testing over inventory valuation and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence andthe Committee concurred with managements assessment and objectivity of the auditor.
The Groups current auditor, DeloitteLLP, ofthecarrying value ofGroup inventories.
has processes in place designed to maintain independence, including Fair, balanced and understandable regular rotation of the audit partner.
Deloitte LLP was appointed The Committee has considered whether, in its opinion, the 2016 inMay2015 as statutory auditor following a tender process, Annual Report and Financial Statements is, taken as a whole, fair, Christopher Robertson has acted as audit partner since the balanced and understandable, and whether it provides the information appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor in May 2015.
The Company necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, has complied with the Competition andMarkets Authoritys Order business model and strategy.
In making this assessment, the Committee forthe financial year under review.
has advised the Board in relation to the statement required by the UKCorporate Governance Code.
The Committee has adopted policies to safeguard the independence of its external auditor.
It is the policy of the Company that the The Committee has concluded that the disclosures, and the external auditor should not provide non-audit services other than processand controls underlying their production, were appropriate those of a fide minimis value of less than 5,000 in aggregate in toenable it to determine that the 2016 Annual Report and Financial anyfinancial year.
Any other non-audit services, require the specific Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
Where the Committee perceives that the Risk management and internal control independence of the auditor could be compromised, the work will not The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the be awarded to the external auditor.
Details of amounts paid to the system of risk management and control, and for ensuring that it external auditor for audit and non-audit services in 2016 are analysed meets the necessary standards.
The systems and controls are also in Note 3 on page 94.
Other than the auditors Half-yearly review of subject to a regular rolling programme of review, the results of which Marshalls plc, no amounts were paid for non-audit work.
The aggregate are periodically reported to the Board.
amount paid to other firms of accountants for non-audit services inthe same period was 245,000 2015: 172,000.
The Groups Risk Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and members of senior management with Executive accountability for particular risk areas, meets at least twice yearly to identify, evaluate and consider steps to manage any material risks which might threaten the Groups business objectives.
68 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Effectiveness of the external audit Whistleblowing and bribery An annual review of external audit effectiveness was undertaken The Audit Committee monitors any reported incidents under bythe Committee in 2016.
The conclusion of the review was that theSerious Concerns Policy our whistleblowing policy, which theexternal auditor had conducted a comprehensive, appropriate isavailable to all employees.
This policy is displayed on operating and effective audit.
Communication, at all levels, had been open and sitenoticeboards and on the Companys intranet, and sets out the constructive and areas where the external auditor could work more procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns about any effectively, in respect of each phase of the audit, were identified.
wrongdoing without fear of criticism, discrimination or reprisal.
TheSerious Concerns Policy was reviewed during the year and the Internal audit Committee was satisfied that arrangements are in place for the The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness of proportionate and independent investigation of such matters internal controls and reviews these on an ongoing basis.
The internal andforappropriate follow-up action.
audit process of reviewing and reporting on the internal control system is carried out by KPMG LLP, appointed by the Committee in The Audit Committee also takes responsibility for reviewing the 2015 to act as internal auditor for the Group.
The annual internal audit policies and procedures adopted by the Company to prevent bribery.
programme is derived from a risk-based assessment that takes into The Company is committed to a zero-tolerance position with regard account the Risk Register and management input.
This risk-based to bribery, made explicit through its Anti-Bribery Code and assessment is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
This supporting guidance for its employees, agents and contractors on process is overseen by the Finance Director.
KPMG LLP are independent hospitality and gifts.
The policy and procedures are published on the from the Companys external auditor and have no other connection Company website and displayed on operating site noticeboards.
Online training is available to all employees via the Groups internal learning zone to reinforce the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, and The Company operates a self-certification internal control process classroom-based training sessions are also held throughout the year.
tosupport the internal audit process throughout the year.
The internal All employees in decision-making roles with potential exposure to audit programme includes both regular audit checks and assignments bribery risk have completed the training and must self-certify to look at areas of critical importance.
These assignments form part of annually that they continue to comply.
There is a maintained register a much wider programme of independently audited aspects of the of employee interests and a gifts and hospitality record.
Any areas of weakness that are identified through audit review programme included a review of the adequacy of the this process prompt a detailed action plan and a follow-up audit Companys procedures in relation to the prevention of bribery, check to establish that actions have been completed.
Instances of andrecommendations from the internal audit process have fraud or attempted fraud if any and preventative action plans are beenimplemented.
also reported to the Committee and recorded in a fraud register.
The Audit Committee Report has been approved by the Board and During the year, in addition to the regular internal control process, signed on its behalf by: KMPG LLP conducted specific reviews on cyber security risk and the controls over delegated authority, as well as updating earlier reports on Bribery Act compliance, business resilience planning and other Mark Edwards IT-related risks.
Chair of the Audit Committee 15 March 2017 The Committee is pleased to report that, although the wider riskofcyber fraud continues to increase, no significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the year.
There was only one incidence of fraud affecting the Groups business identified during 2016.
This was an externally instigated fraud and no material losses were incurred.
Effectiveness of the internal audit An annual review of internal audit effectiveness and of the performance ofKPMG LLP as independent internal auditor was undertaken by the Committee in 2016.
The conclusion was very positive and was that the current internal audit process continues to be an efficient and effective means of managing the internal audit function.
The Committee has considered, with KPMGLLP, how this process can be developed further during 2017 and further improvements have been reflected inthe current year plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 69
