47 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 ACCOUNTABILITY RISK IN ACTION RISK AND THE ROLE OF INTERNAL AUDIT Internal Audit & Risk comprises both the business are not wholly aligned with our RISK: CLOTHING & HOME SUPPLY Group Risk function and Internal Audit.
These CHAIN AND LOGISTICS NETWORK Group Risk facilitates and manages the risk challenges have led to manual intervention In April 2016 we began the phased process that is ultimately owned by the in the allocation process, impacting the implementation of a new automated Group Board.
Internal Audit, accountable effi ciency of operations.
The audit findings warehouse in Bradford, as part of our wider to the Audit Committee, uses a risk-based support the transformation activities supply chain and logistics transformation.
approach to provide independent underway in Clothing & Home.
Internal Audit reviewed governance over assurance over the adequacy and the project testing phase supporting this eff ectiveness of the control environment, RISK: INTERNATIONAL launch, including the adequacy of testing including controls related to key risks on India is a key growth market for our standards and the management of the Group Risk Pro le.
Our audit found the examples illustrate how Internal Audit assessed the scalability of business governance over testing to be robust: supports the business through driving operations to support this growth, including however, there were opportunities to improvements to our control environment the clarity of plans to deliver against the improve record keeping relating to defect and adding value in core business areas.
strategy, the adequacy of core logistics management and to incorporate the processes and the management of new re-testing of changes into resource plans.
RISK: CLOTHING & HOME store build and development projects.
The audit recommendations were applied TRANSFORMATION We found the customer proposition to be to the remaining testing phases, ahead of Improving product availability to customers clearly fide ned, with a range of store formats the warehouse launch.
in-store and online is a key priority and trialled prior to wider rollout.
New tools Management actions from all of our audits Internal Audit reviewed the process to and processes have been implemented are tracked to completion and the status allocate the stock available in our at the India warehouse to improve stock of these actions is reported to the Audit warehouses.
Our audit found opportunities management and capacity controls, Committee to ensure that the risks to improve the reconciliation of stock although product labelling enhancements identi ed are appropriately addressed.
data, to ensure that allocation decisions are required to speed up the movement of This will, in turn, further mitigate the risks are made based on the most current and stock through the warehouse.
Robust project included in our Group Risk Pro le.
We also found management controls are in place over new that availability targets used within the store build and development projects.
OUR APPROACH TO ASSESSING LONG-TERM VIABILITY As highlighted last year, the UK Corporate failure, and brand impacting incidents position and financial planning process, Governance Code now requires us to issue driven by product sourcing failures.
speci cally the annual forecast and three a viability statement declaring whether Consideration was also given to the year plan.
The directors also satis ed we believe the Company is able to continue strength of the control environment and themselves that they have the evidence to operate and meet its liabilities, taking its impact in mitigating risk, as well as necessary to support the statement into account its current position and inevitable interdependencies.
Scenarios in terms of the eff ectiveness of the principal risks.
The overriding aim is to were then reviewed against the Groups internal control environment in place encourage directors to focus on the longer current and projected liquidity position, to mitigate risk.
term and be more actively involved in risk considering current committed lending In making the statement, the directors management and internal controls: an facilities.
To support the final conclusion have applied the following assumptions: important part of stewardship.
The Board on viability, the assessment also took are required to assess the Companys account of additional potential mitigations Capital markets will be closed and any viability over a period greater than 12 available to the business in the event of bond maturing during the assessment months.
The M&S Board have selected a further downside factors.
An overview of period will be re nanced through our three year assessment period as this aligns the process undertaken was provided to existing facility: with how we plan, measure performance, the Audit Committee and reviewed for Net capital investment will remain in and remunerate at a senior level.
The viability evaluation line with expectations: and was then provided to the Board to assist The process adopted to assess the viability in its assessment.
In the event that the UK votes to leave of the Company involved collaborative the European Union, the terms of exit input from a number of functions across In assessing viability the Board has are such that the business would be able the business to model a series of considered a number of key factors, to continue to operate broadly in line theoretical stress test scenarios linked to including our business model see page 10, with current operations.
the Groups principal risks, in the context our strategy see pages 6-8, risk appetite of the three year plan.
Examples include The Board are in agreement that M&S is see page 48 and our principal risks and signi cant interruption to our business as uncertainties see pages 28-29.
The Viability Statement a result of a cyber-attack or infrastructure been reviewed in the context of our current can be found on page 77.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 48 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY RISK IN ACTION CONTINUED OUR APPROACH TO RISK APPETITE The UK Corporate Governance Code a number of principal risks.
The statements Our work is ongoing.
As the business requires companies to fide ne their risk articulate the normal risk parameters within evolves during 2016 17 we will continue appetite in terms of the nature and extent which the Group operates: this is re ective to assess whether we have the right risk of the principal risks they are willing to take of the fact that our business is already appetite statements in place, and to in achieving strategic objectives.
In real governed by robust policies and consider additional topics, including terms it is an expression of the type and procedures.
We also plan to incorporate amount of risk that the company is our work on risk appetite into our existing Our risk appetite statements cover a wide prepared to take: by clearly fide ning this Group Risk process to promote consistent range of topics from Clothing & Home our business bene ts in a number of ways.
consideration of risk and reward across the ethical sourcing and food safety and Not only does it promote consistent, riskGroup.
integrity through to our core values and informed decision-making across the behaviours.
The size and diverse nature of EXAMPLE RISK APPETITE STATEMENT Group that is aligned with our strategic our business means that there is no one aims, it also supports robust corporate Each agreed risk appetite statement is size ts all approach to establishing risk governance by setting clear risk-taking designed to provide guidance on the parameters.
Whilst it is important that these boundaries.
nature and extent of risk that the Group are clearly fide ned, it is also essential that is prepared to take in achieving its Our approach to risk appetite has evolved we foster an environment where innovation strategic aims and operational objectives.
during 2015 16, building on the foundations and entrepreneurial activities thrive.
At For example: put in place last year.
Following a review of times there may be merit in operating the draft statements prepared in 2014 15, outside of agreed risk parameters but Food safety and integrity We only the Board have now agreed a set of Groupproposed exceptions will need to be sell food products that meet our safety level risk appetite statements that address escalated to senior management for and integrity Codes of Practice.
This is key risk areas and speci c business debate and approval before activities managed throughout the product operations: they are also designed to commence, ensuring that appropriate lifecycle, and assessed via our Food support the business in its management of mitigating controls are in place.
Safety and Food Integrity audit programmes.
RISK INTERDEPENDENCY We recognise that there is signi cant The following is an illustrative example 4, as well as ensuring the resilience of our external factors the causes of which are We recognise that there is signi cant The following is an illustrative example interdependency between our key risks.
of a potential scenario: online business 11.
We recognise that interdependency between our key risks.
of a potential scenario: primarily out of our control.
These include This diagram, based on an extract from business performance is also aff ected by This diagram, based on an extract from our uctuations in foreign exchange rates and In order to strengthen the performance In order to strengthen the performance of our current Group Risk Pro le, highlights external factors, the causes of which are E1 current Group Risk Pro le, highlights how the global economy encompassing of our Clothing & Home business 1, both 1 our Clothing and Home business, both how changes to one risk could impact on primarily out of our control.
These include uncertainties conferred by the upcoming changes to one risk could impact on those in the UK and internationally 10, we need in the UK and Internationally 9, we need to those connected to it.
By understanding uctuations in foreign exchange rates and connected to it.
By understanding the referendum on Britains membership of the to ensure we keep abreast of, and adapt ensure we keep abreast of, and adapt to, the relationship between our key risks if the global economy E1 encompassing relationship between our key risks if they European Union E2, along with global to, changing consumer behaviours 2.
A they were to materialise, we are better uncertainties conferred by the upcoming E3 were to materialise, we are better placed to socio-political unrest.
A critical part of this is ensuring that our critical part of this is ensuring that our placed to ensure that we are managing referendum on Britains membership of ensure that we are managing them customer proposition is well executed, customer proposition is well executed, them appropriately and to understand the European Union E2, along with appropriately and to understand our including maximising product availability including maximising product availability our broader risk exposure.
and the speed of delivery to customers 4 and the speed of delivery to customers, See Risk Management on p27-29 as well as guaranteeing the resilience of our online business 10.
We recognise that business performance is also aff ected by E2 10 Brexit International 1 Clothing & Home transformation E3 E1 Sociopolitical Foreign unrest exchange & global 11 economy 4 M&S.
com Clothing & business 2 Home supply resilience Changing chain and consumer logistics behaviours network
