Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Nomination Committee Report Committee membership Roger Devlin Chairman Ralph Findlay Nick Backhouse Carolyn Bradley Neil Goulden Catherine Glickman Robin Rowland Dear Shareholder Responsibilities This year has seen a period of stability for the Board.
As reported last year, Neil Goulden, our Senior Independent Director, confirmed his Ensure the Board and its Committees have the right balance of intention to retire from the Board with effect from the Annual General skills, knowledge and experience.
During the year, the Nomination To plan for the orderly succession of Directors to the Board and Committee considered the key roles affected by this and, as previously other senior managers.
announced, Carolyn Bradley will assume the role of Senior Independent To identify and nominate suitable candidates for Executive and Director and also become a member of the Remuneration Committee Non-executive Director vacancies having regard to, amongst other following Neils retirement.
Catherine Glickman will take over as Chair of factors, the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
the Remuneration Committee from the same date.
The Nomination Committees role is now to identify suitable candidates to succeed Neil as a Non-executive Director.
The Committee has Attendees considered the skills and experience required to support the Board and Other Executive Directors, senior management and external Company both in the continued development of strategy and longer-term advisers may be invited to attend meetings.
A key part of the brief is that candidates should ideally be financially qualified.
Diversity policy Key activities during the reporting year Our approach to diversity is unchanged: we continue to take note of the Ensuring that succession planning is aligned with the ongoing guidance provided and we require any search agency that we engage to leadership requirements of the business.
have signed up to their industrys Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity.
We will continue to make appointments on the basis of Refreshment of Committees and appointment of Senior merit and, as such, have not set a specific target for numbers of female Independent Director following retirement of Neil Goulden.
However, we do recognise the benefits that greater diversity Engaging with search agency and provision of brief for recruitment can bring and take into account such factors when considering any of new Non-executive Director.
Currently, two of Marstons nine Board members Reviewing the contribution and tenure of each Director before are female.
recommending for re-election by shareholders.
Re-election and evaluation Considering future succession planning for Executive team and The Committee considered the time required from each Non-executive how best to support Executive development needs.
Director, their effectiveness and the experience brought to the Board.
Noting that Neil Goulden will be retiring from the Board in January 2017, we believe that the tenure of the remaining Board members provides the right Terms of reference balance, together with their broad range of skills and relevant experience.
F ull terms of reference of the Committee can be found In accordance with our terms of reference, the Committee has also intheInvestors section of the Companys website.
considered its own effectiveness during the year.
This allows the Committee www.
co. uk to formally review the way we work and whether our strategy for discharging our duties remains appropriate.
The Committee is satisfied that it continues to perform its duties in accordance with its terms of reference.
Having discussed the personal effectiveness and commitment with each Director in individual meetings, I have concluded that the performance of each Board member continues to be effective and I therefore recommend to you the re-election of each Director standing for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
Roger Devlin Chairman of the Nomination Committee 44
