72 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE PENSIONS GOVERNANCE The Group operates a fide ned bene t The Trustee Board operates a number of In addition to six monthly reports from pension scheme the Scheme for committees including: Management and EY as covenant adviser, the Trustee Board employees with an appointment date Governance, Investment and Audit to which also receives presentations from the Chief prior to 1 April 2002. responsibilities are delegated.
The Trustee Finance Offi cer after the Groups Year End Board is supported by an executive team and Half Year results.
The results of the triennial actuarial who manage the governance and operation valuation of the Scheme as at 31 March The scheme is a signatory to the UN of the scheme.
2015 revealed a surplus of 204m on a Principles for Responsible Investment technical provisions basis.
This represents The Trustee Board has a business plan and the Financial Reporting Councils UK a healthy improvement from a fide cit of against which progress is measured Stewardship Code.
It has partnered with 290m as at 31 March 2012 as a result of periodically in a similar approach to the a specialist engagement service, Hermes agreed recovery plan contributions from Group Board.
There is also an annual Board Equity Ownership Services EOS, to the Company and outperformance of Eff ectiveness Review and both the Trustee exercise its global equity voting rights return seeking assets over the period.
Board and the Investment Committee in accordance with a detailed Trustee The scheme has also been fully hedged hold annual strategy days which help Board policy, which addresses a range of against interest rate and in ation risks drive the long term agenda and the governance, social and environmental and was thus insulated from the eff ect of business plan priorities.
The engagement of EOS enhances falling real interest rates.
Scheme funding the Trustee Boards stewardship and Each Trustee Board Director has an is closely and frequently monitored and governance oversight of investee individual training plan, which is based diversi cation of Scheme investment companies by engaging with companies on the Pension Regulators Trustee risks continues.
The results of these Knowledge and Understanding voting and engagement activities are The pension scheme, the assets of which requirements and tailored to address published quarterly on the M&S Pension are held under trust separately from those any skill gaps and speci c Committee Schemes website.
of the Group, is managed by the Board roles.
The majority of the Trustee Board of the Pension Trust Trustee Board.
members hold the Pensions Management The Trustee Board comprises four Institute Award in Trusteeship.
Company nominated directors, including All advisers, investment managers and the Chairman, Graham Oakley, three suppliers are appointed through a rigorous member nominated directors and two tender process.
They are monitored via independent directors.
All directors are quarterly reports and periodic meetings appointed for a five year term and may and there is also a rolling programme of stand for additional terms.
both informal and formal adviser reviews.
