50 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REMUNERATION OVERVIEW We are committed to fair and motivating remuneration: and to creating value for our shareholders.
VINDI BANGA CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to Steves appointment were disclosed at the individual performance against a number present our Remuneration Report for 2016. time and are detailed later in this report on of challenging targets and average around We have sought to improve our disclosures page 68 with a starting salary in this role of 35% of maximum 70% of salary.
In line with the provisions in Taking into account overall Company introduced a summary section highlighting the Policy, the Committee intends that performance and balance of the team, the key elements of our remuneration Steves salary will be reviewed annually the Committee determined that the framework.
This Remuneration at a Glance re ecting performance and operational bonus for the CEO be subject to a overview is intended to illustrate our delivery.
The first review will be in July 2017, discretionary downward adjustment of Remuneration Policy in action, the 15 months after his appointment.
Bonus alignment between our senior payments awarded to the executive team remuneration strategy and the Companys PAY AND PERFORMANCE are summarised on page 60.
We are performance for the 2015 16 financial year.
The charts shown on pages 52 and 53 satis ed that the payments to the CEO, demonstrate the clear linkage between This year, we have also summarised the the executive directors and elsewhere in M&S business strategy and payments Remuneration Policy approved by the business are fair and balanced in the made to the executive directors.
shareholders at the 2014 AGM rather than context of overall Company performance.
reproduce the Policy in full.
This gives The key business priorities are referenced Performance Share Plan an overview on the directors annual on pages 18 to 21 of this report and the The Performance Share Plan awards remuneration framework.
executive directors bonus measures granted in 2013 were measured for the for the year were aligned with this focus.
three year period up to 2 April 2016 against BOARD CHANGES In addition, each executive director was set challenging EPS, ROCE and revenue targets.
As highlighted earlier, there were a a number of strategic priorities which the As a result, executive directors will receive number of changes to the Board during Committee considered relevant to the only 4.8% of the original award when it vests the year.
Helen Weir joined us in April 2015, delivery of the shortto medium-term in June 2016.
Full details are provided on JohnDixon left in July 2015 and goals in their areas of responsibility.
Marc Bolland retired from the Board in Annual Bonus Scheme April 2016.
I believe that our Remuneration SALARY INCREASES As highlighted earlier, our performance Policy provides the exibility to manage during the year was mixed.
Overall While the Committee was minded to our pay arrangements while providing underlying pro ts were up 3.5% with award an annual increase of 2% of salary to certainty to our shareholders that any strong cash ow delivery.
We delivered Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne, Helen Weir payments made in the implementation positive Food growth in a tough market: and Laura Wade-Gery, all executive of our Policy are in the best interests of improved customer experience of directors have declined their respective both the Company and our shareholders.
com, and progressed our end to pay increases, in recognition of the new pay After a rigorous selection process, end Clothing & Home supply chain arrangements proposed across the rest I am delighted that we appointed infrastructure.
In Clothing & Home, of the UK business.
All executive directors Steve Rowe to succeed Marc Bolland margins improved but sales performance have similarly stated that they will decline as Chief Executive Offi cer with eff ect was unsatisfactory.
Our International their annual salary reviews in July 2017, from 2 April 2016.
The remuneration business was impacted by a number should the Committee deem it appropriate arrangements relating to Steve in this of macro-economic factors and to award any increases at that time.
The report cover his roles during the year: operational challenges.
Committee are fully supportive of their as the Executive Director for Food and collective decision to support the business Bonus payments to the executive later for GM.
Steves remuneration as in ensuring pay arrangements are directors were determined by the above Chief Executive Offi cer began after aff ordable and appropriate across M&S.
performance, as well as an evaluation of the financial year-end.
Full details for 51 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 IN THIS SECTION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE p52-53 SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY p54 REMUNERATION REPORT p58 Executive directors Strategic alignment of pay p58 Performance Share Plan p62-63 remuneration policy p54 Total single gure remuneration p58 Directors share interests p64-66 Recruitment policy p55 Salary and bene ts p59 Non-executive directors remuneration p69 Termination policy p56 Annual Bonus Scheme p60-61 Remuneration Committee p70-71 Non-executive directors remuneration policy p57 LOOKING AHEAD will be granted in November 2016, shortly business drivers and goals to deliver strong after the announcement of the Interim performance and sustainable shareholder Looking ahead to 2016 17, remuneration results.
This will ensure that we can set returns.
We will seek to engage with our arrangements will be broadly in line with stretching yet achievable targets which major shareholders as part of this process 2015 16 and will be aligned with the new are within the approved Remuneration to re ect their views and to maintain chapter and strategy being developed Policy and designed to deliver increased our ongoing dialogue on director pay for M&S.
Incentives will support Steves shareholder value.
Together with the rest of the strategic direction for the business, his Board, I look forward to hearing your views clear focus on our customer, simplicity This will be the final year under the on our remuneration arrangements and will and teamwork while running the business current remuneration framework as be available to answer any questions you pro tability for our shareholders.
Directors we will be seeking your support and may have at the AGM.
will again be eligible to participate in an approval for a new Remuneration Policy Annual Bonus Scheme which for this at the 2017 AGM.
We are committed to year will be focused on building solid ensuring that the executive directors foundations of pro t growth in the pay arrangements support and drive business 70% of awards will be measured the business strategy and are balanced against Underlying Group Pro t Before between motivating and challenging Tax targets.
Individual performance will our senior leaders to grow the business and continue to be relevant as we seek deliver value to shareholders.
Vindi Banga improvements in a number of key areas Chairman of the Remuneration Committee We will be supported by our Committee of priority which are necessary for the advisors in setting the new Remuneration future growth of M&S.
This structure is Policy to ensure that it aligns with the strongly aligned to the bonus scheme arrangements in place for the wider REMUNERATION COMMITTEE workforce, which was a consideration in the Committees discussions.
The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2015 16: Further Committee debates for incentive MEMBER MAXIMUM NUMBER OF % OF schemes for 2016 17 were related to the SINCE POSSIBLE MEETINGS MEETINGS appropriateness of performance measures MEETINGS ATTENDED ATTENDED MEMBER and targets for long-term incentive arrangements under Steve Rowes new Vindi Banga 1 September 2011 6 6 100 leadership.
Considerable work is currently Chairman underway to review and rede ne our long-term goals and the Committee Robert Swannell 1 March 2015 6 6 100 wishes to ensure that the Performance Share Plan is aligned to this strategic review.
The Committee believes it is vital that the Miranda Curtis 1 February 2012 6 6 100 performance targets in the Performance Share Plan are not only aligned to these goals but are motivational for participants.
21 July 2015 3 3 100 Richard Solomons As a result, the Committee decided that awards under the Performance Share Plan FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
