CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement H igh standards of governance BOARD OBJECTIVES 2016 Extend the strategy debate, establish strategy review day, review capital structure and articulate longterm vision.
The Board seeks to promote Develop understanding of succession planning below Board level, consistently high standards of people related processes and objectives.
governance throughout the Establish more structure around Board and senior management Groupthat are recognised and succession planning and appraisals, and strengthen the role oftheNomination Committee, taking account of diversity.
On risk management, incorporating best practice, develop risk reporting and Board involvement, with particular focus on safety culture and cyber risk.
Nomination Committee Report pages 4243 Improve visibility of risk assessment for projects at evaluation stage.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities pages 4445 WHAT WE ACHIEVED Remuneration CommitteeReport pages 4665 Set 2020 Strategy articulated in presentations toinvestors and Audit CommitteeReport pages 6669 employees, held separate strategy review day for Board and Executive Committee inSeptember 2016, future strategy review days now programmed annually.
Strategic objectives: Established regular reviews of capital structure: greater focus Shareholder value Relationship building onassessing risk and developing mitigation strategies, particularly Brand development Sustainable profitability in relation to cybersecurity.
Organic expansion Effective capital structure andcontrolframework Health and safety reporting developed, with Board training and participation in site safetyinspections.
Strengthened process around succession planning at Board and seniormanagement level: successful handover from retiring to new Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee Chair, one-to-one appraisals completed.
Promoted and supported increased focus on people initiatives, includingthe establishing of consistentGroup-wide employment procedures and policies, investment in training and development and improved access to pensionsavings.
KEY THEMES FOR 2017 Leading the development of corporateculture, values and visionacross the business.
Work to further develop business resilience, flexibility and agility.
Pursue 2020 Strategy through, for example, organic growth andimproved profitability resulting from innovation in products and processes, considering acquisitions and investment where appropriate and value adding.
Ensure succession planning Boardandsenior management isdesigned to align with corporate cultureand good practice andrecognises our commitment to diversity.
36 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder, This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Reports experience, ensuring a well balanced and effective Board with ofthe Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on pages a clear and inclusive strategy and a high degree of respect and 42 to 69, explains how Marshalls governance framework works and trust at individual and collective level.
The summary of our 2016 how we apply the principles of business integrity, high ethical values objectives, how we performed against them, and the objectives and professionalism in all our activities.
As a Board, we recognise that we have set for 2017 following the 2016 evaluation process, weare accountable to shareholders for good corporate governance, appears on the first page of this report.
These priorities are and we seek to promote consistently high standards of governance closelylinked to the strategic objectives of the business.
throughout the Group that are recognised and understood by all.
The Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were reviewed by the Good governance depends on good and effective leadership FRCs Conduct Committee and matters arising have been reflected anda healthy corporate culture, supported by robust systems in this years Annual Report and Accounts.
The 2016 Annual Report and processes and a good understanding of risk and risk appetite.
takes account of the FRC review and seeks to maintain the clarity Your Board has continued throughout the year to engage with and transparency of previous reports while presenting our business shareholders and other stakeholders, to maintain constructive performance as effectively as possible.
dialogue and challenge and to focus on strategy and value.
As a This Corporate Governance Statement, which is part of the Directors Board, we also keep abreast of developments in good governance Report, has been prepared in accordance with the principles of and practice, such as the recommendations of the HamptontheUK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 Alexander review on gender diversity, the Parker review on the Code, which the Board fully supports.
The Board annually ethnic diversity and the FRCs observations on corporate culture carries out a review of how the Code principles are applied within the published in July 2016.
This year, the Board and the Executive structure, together with the processes and procedures adopted by Committee have spent time on evaluating Marshalls culture the Company.
The Board considers that the Company has complied and values, recognising that a healthy corporate culture will with the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year in both protect and generate value.
The Board has a leading role all material respects.
I can also confirm that inthe opinion of the in fostering and influencing the positive culture and values of Directors these Annual Financial Statements present a fair, balanced the Group by ensuring a consistency of approach and message and understandable assessment of the Groups position and from the top.
The work of our Board Committees, explained in prospects and provide the information necessary for shareholders this report, demonstrates our commitment to openness and to assess the Groups position and performance, business model accountability, acknowledging the value of diversity and good and strategy.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the succession planning, how we align reward with our values and Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in strategy and how as an organisation we seek to embed our values the Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Auditors Report across the business, recognising that there is further work to do.
on pages 44 to 45 and 72to77 respectively.
During 2016, the Board conducted its first externally led Board evaluation.
This concluded that the Board composition was Andrew Allner appropriate for the business, with a good balance of skills and Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued andBoard development.
The Remuneration Report on pages 46 to Role of the Board The Board currently comprises an Independent Non-Executive 65 incorporates the Remuneration Policy to be tabled at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, and gives details of Directors remuneration Chairman, 3 Non-Executive Directors and 2 Executive Directorswho are equally responsible for the proper stewardship andleadership for 2017.
Other Board Committees are established periodically for particular purposes.
Forexample, during the year, Board Committees ofthe Company.
Their biographical details are onpages34 and 35. were established toapprove the preliminary and half-yearly results.
Among the written Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which is reviewed annually, are: Day-to-day management and the implementation of strategies agreed by the Board are delegated to the Executive Directors.
The approving and monitoring progress of strategy, business plans Groups reporting structure below Board level is designed so that andbudgets: alldecisions are made by the most appropriate people in a timely approving any changes to capital, constitution or manner.
Management teams report to members of the Executive corporatestructure: Committee: this currently consists of 8 senior managers of whom 7are male and 1is female, including the 2 Executive Directors.
approving the annual and half-yearly accounts, and the TheBoard receives regular updates from the Executive Committee approvaland monitoring of the internal financial control system, in relation to business issues and developments.
These policies and risk management, health and safety and anti-bribery policies procedures collectively enable the Board to make informed decisions andprocedures: on a range of key issues including strategy and risk management.
The Board appointments and succession planning, and setting interaction between these bodies is illustrated in the chart below.
TermsofReference for Board Committees: Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive approving transactions of significant value or major andNonExecutive Directors There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman strategicimportance: and andChief Executive, each of whom has annually reviewed written remuneration matters, including major changes to pension Terms of Reference.
The Chairman leads the Board and sets its schemes, the introduction of share and incentive schemes, agenda, ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all andthegeneral framework of remuneration.
agenda items, in particular strategic issues, making sure all Directors, The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to contribute, and Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Audit Committee maintaining a constructive relationship between the Executive and Report on pages 66 to 69 provides details of how the Board applies the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility the Code in relation to financial reporting, risk management and for all operational matters which include the implementation internal controls.
The Nomination Committee Report on pages ofstrategy and policies approved by the Board.
42 and 43 reports on the work done, particularly in relation to Board and senior management succession planning, diversity Interaction between Board andmanagementbodies Audit Committee Board Nomination Committee Group corporate support Remuneration Executive Committee Directors Operational andfunctional management Chairman and CEO Terms of Reference Executive www.
co. uk Committee Committee Terms of Reference www.
co. uk 38 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All Directors receive training as partof the annual Board programme, which seeks toincorporate a range of in-depth topics ofparticular relevance to the business.
Directors are also expected to attend external courses andseminars as appropriate to maintain and develop theirBoard competencies.
The Senior Independent Director, who also has written Terms of ofthe Nomination Committee are commented on further in the Reference, is responsible for providing a sounding board forthe Nomination Committee Report.
Chairman and is an intermediary for other Non-Executive Directors.
On appointment, Board members, in particular the Chairman and She is available to shareholders if they have concerns whichare not theNon-Executive Directors, disclose their other commitments and resolved through the normal channels of contact.
agree to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were independent duties effectively and ensure that these other commitments do not on appointment, and the Board considers each of the Non-Executive affect their contribution.
The current Board commitments of the Directors to be independent in character and judgement in accordance Chairman and of the remaining members of the Board are shown on with the principles of the Code.
Any conflicts of interest are dealt with in accordance with the Board conflicts procedures.
At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being The Companys Articles of Association contain powers of removal, present.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet annually without the appointment, election and re-election of Directors and provide that Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
at least one-third of the Board must retire at each Annual General Meeting and each Director must retire by rotation every 3 years.
Directors are able to ensure that any concerns they raise about Inpractice, the Company requires all Non-Executive Directors and therunning of the Company or a proposed action are recorded Executive Directors to stand for re-election at each Annual General inthe Board minutes.
If a Non-Executive Director did have any such Meeting.
All Directors will stand for re-election or election at the 2017 concerns on resignation the Chairman would invite that Director Annual General Meeting.
The terms of appointment of the current toprovide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
Directors and the Directors biographical details on pages 34 and 35 Conflicts of interest show their length of service on the Board.
The Board has adopted procedures for the authorisation of existing Board induction, development and support situations and for considering and authorising where appropriate New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining new situations which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
There is an induction pack for new Directors incorporating arerecorded in a Conflicts Register, reviewed by the Nomination the Companys constitutional and governance documents, Group Committee at least annually.
Currently, the only situations policies and other key information, and training is provided on the authorised are the holding by Directors of directorships or similar use of our active virtual boardroom board reporting tools.
During offices with companies or organisations not connected with the 2016, Non-Executive Directors were trained to carry out site safety Company where the Board has not identified any actual conflict inspections as part of the Groups Visible Felt Leadership health ofinterest.
The Board has reviewed the procedures and is satisfied andsafety programme.
Other tailored training may be arranged that they are operating effectively.
tomeet individual needs, for example to update knowledge of Board composition, commitment and election developments in regulatory compliance.
Typically, a new Director ofDirectors will meet the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors in The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board one-on-one sessions: he or she will have meetings with key appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
management, briefings with external advisers and shareholders, Webelieveour Board is of sufficient size and has an appropriate anda programme of site visits will be arranged at which the Director balance of skills and experience to meet the needs of the business.
meets site-based staff to gain a full understanding of the business.
Individual Director evaluations, succession planning and the work Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued The Senior Independent Director separately reviewed theChairmans Board induction, development and support continued Directors are expected to attend external courses and seminars as performance with other Non-Executive Directors.
Theresults of the evaluation were then reviewed by the Chairman and the Company appropriate to maintain and develop their Board competencies.
Training is also built into the annual Board programme, which is Secretary and discussed by the Board.
The Board also reviewed progress against the priorities identified for 2016 from the 2015 designed to cover a range of topics of particular relevance tothe business.
During 2016, there were Board briefings relating to health evaluation process.
The outcomes of the evaluation process andthethemes that have emerged for focus in 2017 are and safety, cyber risk and current issues of corporate governance andthe new MAR regulatory regime.
TheBoard also received senior highlightedonpage 36. management presentations in relation tobusiness process initiatives, The Board welcomed the independent assessment provided developments in HR processes and group learning, manufacturing byEquity Communications, which confirmed that the Board was operations and the Groups marketing strategy.
Non-Executive working very effectively and that there was a good level of challenge Directors took the opportunity to meet senior managers to discuss and support.
The evaluation also demonstrated that the internallyareas of particular interest.
Training needs are identified through the led Board evaluation process in previous years had been successful Board evaluation process and through the individual one-to-one inimproving Board effectiveness.
The Board expects to return reviews between the Directors and the Chairman.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Board meetings and attendance Secretary and are entitled to rely on the impartial and independent Audit Remuneration Nomination nature of that advice and those services.
The Company Secretary Board Committee Committee Committee isresponsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied Andrew Allner withand, through the Chairman, advises the Board on corporate Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 2 2 governance matters.
Both the appointment and removal of the Janet Ashdown Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors to take Jack Clarke 7 7 independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their Martyn Coffey 7 7 duties, including the option to appoint external advisers when they Alan Coppin deem it appropriate.
Non-Executive 3 7 1 4 2 4 1 2 Indemnities and insurance Mark Edwards The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 cover to cover legal proceedings against its Directors and Officers Tim Pile acting in that capacity.
The Group has also granted indemnities to Non-Executive 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 itsDirectors to the extent permitted by law which are qualifying third party indemnities within the meaning of Section 236 of the The Board met 7 times in full session during 2016.
In addition, the Companies Act 2006, and these remained in force during the year Audit Committee met 4 times, the Remuneration Committee met inrelation to certain losses and liabilities that the Directors may incur 4times and the Nomination Committee met twice during the year.
to third parties in the course of action as Directors or employees of There were also Board Committee meetings in connection with the the Company, any subsidiary or associated company, or as a Director issue of financial results and the updating of Group banking details.
of the pension scheme trustee board.
Neither the liability insurance nor the indemnities provide cover in the event of proven fraudulent The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are usually invited or dishonest activity.
toattend Audit Committee meetings, although the Audit Committee also meets the auditor without any Executive Director being present.
Board evaluation The Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration Committee The Company carries out a full evaluation of Board performance meetings where appropriate.
The Company Secretary is also Secretary andthat of its 3 principal Committees annually.
As indicated in its to the Board Committees and attends meetings for this purpose.
2015 report, the Board decided to commission an external evaluation for 2016.
Accordingly, external evaluators, Equity Communications, Alan Coppin retired from the Board in May 2016 and attended were appointed after a competitive tender process to conduct the allmeetings up to the date of his retirement.
In 2017 there are 2016 Board evaluation.
Equity Communications have no other 7Board, 4 Audit Committee, 4 Remuneration Committee and connection with the Company.
The evaluation was carried out using 1Nomination Committee meetings scheduled, with an additional a questionnaire, followed by one-to-one interviews with each of the day set aside for strategy.
Outside this formal Board schedule, Directors and the Company Secretary.
The questionnaire was Boardmembers are expected to participate in site visits, and are designed to stimulate thought and discussion rather than to deliver invited to other events such as the Groups two-day annual scores, and included questions about the effectiveness of Executive management conference.
and Non-Executive Directors, and the performance of the Chairman.
40 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How we assess our performance, prospects and viability Relations with shareholders The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review process, The Board places great emphasis on good communications including detailed annual budgets, business plans and regular withshareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director forecasting.
There are a range of performance indicators which are meetregularly with major shareholders to discuss the Groups tracked by management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as performance, strategic issues and shareholder investment objectives, appropriate, and addressed through a programme of operational and also periodically arrange site visits for investors.
Reports of these meetings and action plans.
All Directors receive regular and timely meetings and any shareholder communications during the year are information to enable them to perform their duties, including provided to the Board.
During 2016, 103 such meetings were held, information on the Groups operational and financial performance, atwhich 72 of the Groups institutional shareholders were represented.
customer service, health and safety performance and forward trends.
This approach ensures the views of major shareholders are understood byall Directors.
The Board reviews at each regular Board meeting the monthly financial results, taking account of performance indicators and the The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts and brokers detailed annual business plan and budget.
The Board also considers briefings.
The Chairman is available to meet major shareholders on forward trends and performance against other key indicators, including request to discuss governance and strategy.
The Senior Independent areas where performance departs from forecasts, and contingency Director is also available to meet shareholders separately if requested.
The Board reviews and discusses medium and long-term strategy When appropriate, the Non-Executive Directors attend meetings or on a regular basis and meets at least annually with the Executive site visits with major shareholders and would be available to meet Committee to review strategy.
It also holds separate meetings with major shareholders if a meeting were requested.
individual members of senior management to ensure the Board There is a regular reporting and announcement schedule to ensure receives regular updates on current business and strategic issues.
that matters of importance affecting the Group are communicated In this way, the Board assesses the prospects of the Group using all toinvestors, and the Annual and Half-yearly Reports, together with the information at its disposal, and considering historic performance, the Marshalls website, are substantial means of communication with forecast performance for the current year, and longer-term forecasts all shareholders during the year.
over the 3-year business planning cycle as appropriate.
In approving Annual General Meeting these accounts the Board has considered these matters in detail in The Notice of Annual General Meeting is dispatched to shareholders, order to be able to give the Viability Statement on page 21.
The Board together with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special has a reasonable expectation that the Group is able to continue in business, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
It is the operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least the next Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each 12months.
substantially separate issue, including a resolution relating to the Risk management and internal control Report and Accounts, and to put all resolutions to an electronic poll The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining the nature at the Annual General Meeting.
All Directors normally attend the and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its meeting, including the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and strategic objectives, and for the Groups system of internal control.
Nomination Committees, who are available to answer questions.
The Board has during 2016 carried out a review of the effectiveness of TheBoard welcomes questions from shareholders who have an the Groups risk management and internal controls systems covering opportunity to raise issues informally or formally before or at the all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance Annual General Meeting.
The Strategic Report comments in detail pages 20 to 24 on For each resolution the proxy appointment forms provide the nature of the principal risks facing the Group, in particular those shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and or liquidity and the measures inplace to mitigate them.
In conducting any announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a vote its review, the Board has included arobust assessment of these risks, withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation particularly operational risks that might affect the assessment of the of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
The Boards risk review also incorporates an element ofstress testing, by envisaging scenarios that might arise during All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted.
Information on the number of shares represented by proxy, the proxy thefinancial year and or the planning cycle, and considering, with financial impact modelling where appropriate, the likely effect in the votes for and against each resolution, and the number of shares in respect of which the vote was withheld for each resolution, together business and its prospects.
The Audit Committee Report onpages 66 to 69 describes the internal control system and how itismanaged with the voting result, are given at the meeting and made available on the Companys website.
The Board acknowledges that such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk offailure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable Andrew Allner andnot absolute assurance against material mis-statementor loss.
Chairman 15 March 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 41
