32 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS N R CC Robert Swannell Steve Rowe Helen Weir Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Chairman Chief Executive Chief Finance Offi cer Executive Director, Customer, Marketing & M&S.
com Appointed: Chairman in January Appointed: Executive Director, Appointed: April 2015 2011, Non-Executive Director in General Merchandise in July 2015, Appointed: July 2013 Skills, competence and experience: October 2010 Chief Executive from 2 April 2016 Helen is a quali ed accountant, Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: with over 25 years experience in Patrick brings over 25 years of Robert is a Chartered Accountant Steve joined M&S in 1989 and the finance and retail sectors.
She extensive experience in the consumer and a Barrister.
He has extensive progressed through a variety of brings substantial strategic financial goods industry.
His valuable strategic government and regulatory roles within store management experience, and a wealth of signi cant insight is supported by his experience experience and possesses a wealth before moving to Head Offi ce in retail and consumer experience to in developing and marketing brands of knowledge of many diff erent 1993.
He has worked in senior roles the Board.
Helen has strong listed globally and broad knowledge of business areas, banking and the across various areas of the business, company experience having been enhancing business performance City, acquired over a 33-year career including Director of Home, Director Group Finance Director, Executive and customer experience in a in investment banking.
He has of Retail, and Director of Retail and Director, and Non-Executive Director multi-channel environment.
signi cant experience as a director E-commerce.
He was appointed to on the Boards of a number of major Patrick played a key role in creating and chairman across various sectors, the Board as Executive Director, Food companies.
Helen is a Fellow of the the new marketing strategy for and his leadership in the area of in 2012, leading the Food division as Chartered Institute of Management Womenswear, and continues to lead governance promotes robust it continued its record of outstanding Accountants and was awarded a CBE the transformation of M&Ss in-store debate and drives a culture of innovation and strong growth.
for services to Finance in 2008. environment and the publishing openness in the boardroom.
Steve moved to the role of Executive strategy for M&S.
Patrick Other roles: Non-Executive Director Director, General Merchandise in assumed overall responsibility for Other roles: Chairman of UK of SAB Miller, Trustee of Marie Curie, July 2015, with a mandate to improve M&S.
Government Investments, Director Non-Executive Director of the overall performance and build on the of the Investor Forum, Trustee of Rugby Football Union.
Other roles: Non-Executive Director Clothing & Home divisions design Kew Foundation and Teach First, of Brown-Forman Inc, Non-Executive and sourcing capabilities, prior to his Advisory Board Member of Sutton Director of Collectively.
appointment as CEO on 2 April 2016.
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS A R N R N A N N A CC CC Vindi Banga Miranda Curtis Andy Halford Alison Brittain Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Senior Independent Appointed: February 2012 Appointed: January 2013 Appointed: January 2014 Director in March 2015, NonSkills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Executive Director in September 2011 Mirandas substantial experience A chartered accountant, Andy has Alison brings extensive financial and Skills, competence and experience: of the international consumer and a strong finance background and commercial experience to the Vindi has extensive consumer brand technology sectors, and extensive signi cant recent and relevant Board, combined with considerable knowledge and global business knowledge of global industry financial experience gained from knowledge of running large scale experience, acquired over 33 years provides a valuable contribution CFO positions in global listed consumer businesses.
She is Chief in senior roles within the consumer to the Board.
His extensive knowledge Executive of hospitality group goods industry.
His in-depth career with Liberty, Miranda led the of the UK and international consumer Whitbread, and was previously knowledge of UK and international companys investments in digital market provides the Board with Group Director of Lloyds Banking trade and industry provides valuable distribution and content operations valuable strategic insight.
Andy is Groups Retail Division until July insight into business and enterprise across Continental Europe and a member of the Business Forum 2015.
She has held a number of across the globe.
He has strong Asia-Paci c, most notably in Japan.
on Tax and Competitiveness and senior positions in the financial sector, experience as a board member of a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered particularly in retail, and has valuable Other roles: Chairman of other listed companies and is the Accountants in England and Wales.
Alison has an Waterstones, Non-Executive Director recipient of the Padma Bhushan, MBA from Cambridge Universitys of Liberty Global plc, board member Other roles: Chief Financial Offi cer one of Indias highest civilian honours.
of both the Institute for Government of Standard Chartered plc.
Other roles: Partner at Clayton and the Royal Shakespeare Company, Other roles: Chief Executive Dubilier & Rice, Director of Kedaara Vice-Chairman of Garsington Opera of Whitbread plc and member Capital Investment Managers Ltd, and chairs African girls education of the Prime Ministers Business Kedaara Capital I Ltd and Kedaara charity, Camfed.
Holdings Ltd, Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters and GSK, Chairman of the Mauser Group and the CBIs Economic Growth Board, member of the Governing Board of the Indian School of Business.
33 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 FIND OUT MORE See p34 for Governance and Board structures See p36-37 for Board activities in 2015 16 See p34 for Board roles and responsibilities RETIREMENTS IN 2015 16 BOARD DIVERSITY The tables and graphics below provide a visual outline of our Boards diversity in terms of gender, range of experience and length of tenure.
More information on our Board Diversity Policy can be found on page 41.
Laura Wade-Gery Marc Bolland John Dixon Executive Director, Multi-channel Chief Executive Executive Director, GM GENDER DIVERSITY Appointed: July 2011 Retired: 2 April 2016.
After down on 2 April 2016 after six years 29 years with M&S, John stepped 2 April 2016 24 May 2016 Skills, competence and experience: As at As at date of as Chief Executive.
He remains down in July 2015 to pursue new Laura brings considerable retail, year end Annual Report available to the Board to assist in career opportunities outside of e-commerce and customer the transition until 30 June 2016. the Company.
experience, gained from over 15 years GROUP BOARD GROUP BOARD in senior roles in the retail sector.
Male 62% Male 64% Laura has been instrumental in the improvement and modernisation Female 38% Female 36% of our e-commerce and multichannel capabilities, which she continues EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE to lead.
In July 2014, Lauras role was expanded to include responsibility Male Male 60% 50% for UK stores to provide greater oversight and a fully integrated Female 40% Female 50% approach to M&Ss multi-channel Martha Lane Fox strategy.
Laura is currently on NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE Non-Executive Director maternity leave and is due to return in September 2016.
In line with best practice, Martha chose not to seek Other roles: Non-Executive Director Female 38% Female 29% re-election at the AGM following of British Land, Trustee of Royal completion of her third three year Opera House Covent Garden Limited, term and retired from the Board Trustee of Aldeburgh Music.
91% 91% 1 100% 100% GROUP SECRETARY RETAIL CONSUMER N R N A 55 55% 5% 46% 46 6% FINANCE E-COMMERCE & TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE Richard Solomons Andrew Fisher Amanda Mellor Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance Appointed: April 2015 Appointed: December 2015 Appointed: July 2009 Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Richard brings strong commercial, Andrew has substantial experience Other roles: Non-Executive Director financial, consumer, branding and of the international consumer and of Kier Group plc.
NON-EXECUTIVE global experience to the Board.
technology sectors, and has led the DIRECTOR TENURE His extensive international retail, successful growth of a number of and global consumer experience, technology-focused enterprises 0-1 YEAR 16.66% and role as a CEO of an international over the past 18 years.
He is currently 1 DIRECTOR business provides valuable insight Executive Chairman of Shazam 1-3 YEARS 16.66% to the Board.
During his career at Entertainment Limited, having 1 DIRECTOR IHG, Richard was integral in shaping previously served as Chief Executive and implementing IHGs asset-light Offi cer since 2005.
Prior to that, 3-6 YEARS 66.66% strategy, which has helped the Andrew was European Managing 5 DIRECTORS business grow signi cantly since Director of Infospace Inc and founder it was formed in 2003, as well as and Managing Director of TDLI.
supporting the return of $10.4bn He is a member of the Advisory Board KEY TO COMMITTEES to shareholders.
to the Secretary of State for the Review of the BBC Charter.
Nomination Remuneration N R Other roles: Chief Executive of Committee IHG, Governor of the Aviation Other roles: Executive Chairman Audit CC A Travel Industry Group of the World of Shazam Entertainment Limited, Chair Economic Forum, Member of the Non-Executive Director of Industry Real Estate Financing MoneySupermarket.
Full biographical details of Advisory Council.
each director are available on marksandspencer.
com thecompany FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 34 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CONTINUED BOARD OVERVIEW BOARD COLLABORATION The Board and Committee structure GROUP BOARD throughout 2015 16, is provided on the right.
As highlighted on page 09 of the Strategic Report, going forward the Management Committee will be disbanded and the Executive Board will be renamed the Operating Committee with renewed membership.
Operating Committee membership is provided on page 09.
MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE PRINCIPAL Updated Terms of Reference for this BOARD COMMITTEES COMMITTEE Committee will be added to our corporate website once agreed by the Board.
Audit Remuneration Nomination The work of the Board complements, enhances and supports the work of the Executive Board.
We believe that eff ective governance is realised through leadership and team work.
Collaboration across all levels within the Board structure drives a culture of continuous improvement in OPERATING standards and performance across our COMMITTEES business.
Working together, all parts of the Board structure conduct robust Property Fire, Health & Safety Business Continuity Plan A interrogation of plans and actions, ensuring high-quality decision-making in all areas of strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
Going forward, this will become the Operating Committee ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the enhanced to create competitive Remuneration, and Nomination the stewardship of the Company, overseeing advantage for the Company.
Board sets the strategic direction and its conduct and aff airs to create sustainable aims to deliver sustainable shareholder The Board delegates to executive value for the bene t of its shareholders.
value over the longer term.
management, the execution of the In performing this task, the Board Companys strategy and the day-to-day Overseeing the implementation of recognises that to be successful over the management and operation of the appropriate risk assessment systems long-term it has a wider duty to care for Companys business.
The Board is and processes to identify, manage the interests of employees, customers responsible for overseeing, guiding and and mitigate the principal risks of the and the communities in which the holding to account management in Companys business.
Much of this work Company operates, and whose support carrying out these responsibilities.
is delegated to the Audit Committee.
is required to create sustainable value.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that Eff ective succession planning at Board The Board discharges some of its appropriate values, ethics and behaviours level and for assessing the processes in responsibilities directly and discharges for the conduct of the Company are agreed place to ensure that there is appropriate others through its Board Committees succession planning amongst senior and that appropriate procedures and and through management.
The Terms of training are in place to ensure that these management.
Much of this work is Reference of the Board and its Committees are observed throughout the Company.
delegated to the Nomination Committee.
are included in our Governance Framework.
The Board has discussed and agreed the In addition to the other matters referred The Board agrees, and has collective key values of Inspiration, Innovation, to in its framework, the Board is responsible responsibility for, the strategy of the Integrity and In Touch and these underpin for speci c matters relating to strategy, Company.
For M&S, our strategy is the required values, ethics and behaviours.
finance, risk management, internal control understood to mean the development Clear Terms of Reference outline the and audit, legal, reputation and public of speci c actions aimed at satisfying full schedule of matters reserved for company management.
These, along with the needs of our target customer groups the Boards decision and that of its the individual roles of the Board members, across the product categories and in the key committees.
are covered by the Schedule of Matters territories in which we choose to operate.
Reserved to the Board in the Marks The articulation of our strategy will include The Board is responsible for: and Spencer Group plc Governance agreement on how our physical and Ensuring leadership through eff ective Framework, and can be found at intellectual property and the skills of our oversight and review.
people should be used, developed and its principal committees Audit, 35 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 FIND OUT MORE See Board activities overview on p36-37 See our Board biographies on p32-33 See our Remuneration Report on p50-71 BOARD COMPOSITION, ROLES AND ATTENDANCE AS AT YEAR END EXECUTIVE MAX RESPONSIBILITY LINKED TO MAX DIRECTORS ATTENDED POSSIBLE IN 2015 16 REMUNERATION CHAIRMAN ATTENDED POSSIBLE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executive 88 Strategy & Group Robert Swannell 88 Board governance Marc Bolland performance and performance, Retired 2 April 2016 and shareholder engagement.
Chief Executive 88 Food performance Designate from April to July 2015 Steve Rowe General Merchandise CEO from 2 April 2016 performance thereafter Chief Finance 88 Group Financial NON-EXECUTIVE MAX DIRECTORS ATTENDED POSSIBLE RESPONSIBILITY Offi cer Performance and 2 Helen Weir Ecommerce distribution Vindi Banga 78 Independent nonexecutive directors Executive Director 78 Marketing & International Alison Brittain 88 assess, challenge and Patrick Bousquetperformance 1 monitor the executive 8 Miranda Curtis 8 Chavanne directors delivery of Executive Director 33 Clothing & Home Andrew Fisher 33 the strategy within John Dixon performance appointed the Boards risk and Resigned 16 July 2015 1 December 2015 governance structure.
Executive Director 44 UK Retail & Multi-channel 3 In addition, they review Martha Lane Fox 78 Laura Wade-Gery performance the integrity of financial Retired 2 April 2016 Maternity Leave from information, devise 1 September 2015 Andy Halford 88 appropriate succession plans, and monitor Richard Solomons 88 Board Diversity.
BOARD MEETINGS The Board held eight scheduled meetings Chairman to meet privately with the director provides feedback on the previous during the year, and individual attendance Senior Independent Director and the nonmeeting, highlighting matters that received is set out above.
Suffi cient time is provided executive directors to discuss any matters a good level of debate and areas where at the start and end of each meeting for the arising.
At the start of each meeting, one further improvements could be made.
This table provides details with regard to scheduled meetings held in the 2015 16 financial year.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne was unable to attend the meeting on 18 May due to overseas personal commitments.
Vindi Banga was unable to attend the meeting on 17 June due to business commitments with CD&R.
Martha Lane Fox was unable to attend the meeting on 18 May due to personal commitments.
MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS RISK MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT STRATEGIC PROCESS The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive directors as part of its Protecting the business from operational, Progress against the strategy is closely annual Board Eff ectiveness Review.
financial and reputational risk is an essential monitored by the Executive Board and part of the Boards role.
Both the directors discussed at each Group Board meeting.
The Chairman is committed to ensuring the and senior management focus on not just Given the change in leadership, announced Board comprises a majority of independent the short, but also the longer-term and at the start of January, the Boards annual non-executive directors who objectively continue to be more actively involved in two-day strategy meeting was postponed.
challenge management, balanced against risk management and internal controls: Much of the proposed agenda for this the need to ensure continuity on the Board.
an important part of stewardship and meeting has subsequently been discussed.
All non-executive directors have served key to ensuring the long-term viability The Board has since debated the priorities fewer than six years on the Board.
and the longer-term challenges, some of The Board considers that all of the The Group Risk Pro le, and risk appetite which we have communicated earlier in non-executive directors bring strong are owned by the Board.
We have identi ed opportunities independent oversight and continue to is facilitated by Group Risk, using business for improvement and continue to formulate demonstrate independence.
The Board area risk registers and one-on-one an agreed action plan.
The non-executive recognises the recommended term interviews with Board members and directors continue to share their expertise within the UK Corporate Governance business unit directors.
Oversight and and provide independent oversight to Code.
It is mindful of the need for suitable independence is provided in the process these discussions.
succession, and therefore maintains a clear through the Audit Committee, which framework of the time each non-executive ensures that the risks the Board include has served the Company and the skillsets in the Group Risk Pro le continue to that each provides.
re ect the businesss strategic objectives.
An Internal Audit plan is then mapped See details and experience of each director to the Group Risk Pro le demonstrating on p32-33 where assurance is provided over mitigating activities.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 36 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CONTINUED BOARD ACTIVITIES TOPIC ACTIVITIES DISCUSSION ACTIONS ARISING PROGRESS Strategy Discussed strategic Conduct a thorough review of UK store estate, Accelerated rollout of new Simply Food stores.
priorities, including including format and pro tability.
Senior leadership appointments made in the combined Food Improve capability in buying, merchandising critical areas with proven talent.
and Clothing & and design in respect of Clothing & Home.
Centralised design authority through Home proposition.
Review organisational capability across introduction of Design Director structure.
New design and product forums introduced Improve processes around succession planning to encourage colleagues to share knowledge to ensure candidates build required skillset.
Provide more challenge to accepted practices.
Identi ed actions to bring brand proposition Become more agile and less risk averse in piloting to life in store.
Drive simplicity in our culture, organisational structure and processes.
Discussed the Groups Continued investment to promote sustainable Strong cash generation due to better capital structure business growth over the long-term.
buying, lower capital expenditure and and financial strategy, Utilise improved cashow position to implement robust cost management.
including capital ongoing, sustainable programme of returns of 150m returned to investors through investments, capital to investors.
shareholder returns Total dividend for the 2015 16 up to 18.7p, and the dividend policy.
Reviewed the Consider scenarios for future business requirements.
Substantial progress made in development development Evaluate proposals for improved network design.
of logistics network design in support of of the strategic Investigate opportunities for further operational business requirements.
Detailed transition plan to move to a single tier network.
Lessons learned from early stages of project leading to improved processes for current and future development phases.
Reviewed international Review of international franchise operations in the Key growth drivers in franchise markets strategy, including context of a changing macro-environment.
Identify and prioritise initiatives to deliver the Increased focus on proven markets international strategy.
Deliver the relevant product ranges for local Write down of assets and exit costs linked customers.
to withdrawal from Balkan region.
Build an international supply chain that is t Proposed store openings kept under review for the future.
to ensure appropriate balance of food and Adapt and implement e-commerce business full line stores in target markets.
model to drive sustainable and pro table growth.
Governance Progress made in pinpointing particular Discussed internal Review the businesss programme management reas for improvement and implementing governance processes and post investment review processes to a & risk underpinning improve delivery.
a One Best Way approach to programme key programmes management.
Discussed new Clearly fide ne the Companys risk appetite and Review of risk appetite statements in the Corporate Governance determine the nature and extent of principal risks.
context of the principal risks and objectives.
developments and Discuss and determine the Companys longer-term Agreed scope, appropriate lookout period disclosure requirements.
viability disclosures, accounting for current position and timeline in respect of the newly required and principal risks.
long-term viability statement, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Reviewed progress Conduct an internally facilitated Board Evaluation Introduced internal Board framework against the 2015 16 Obtain and evaluate director feedback on the Agreed 2016 17 action plan with clear process Board Action Plan.
processes, eff ectiveness and working of the Board for monitoring during the year.
Half yearly review of Assess the eff ectiveness of the Companys risk Agreed a robust set of Group level risks Group Risk Pro le, management systems.
and mitigating activities, which are covering core internal Review completeness and ordering of the Group regularly monitored.
and external risks, Risk Pro le, including key risk movements, and Further developed the Boards approach risks driven by business considered appropriate mitigating factors.
to risk appetite and agreed a set of change and areas of Ongoing robust debate around risk appetite.
Considered movements in key risks resulting from changes to likelihood or business impact, recategorising as appropriate.
Conducted a review Assess the strength of M&Ss cyber security Robust plans in place to ensure the businesss policies, capability and areas of risk.
cyber security systems remain suffi ciently of the Companys cyber Discuss the structure of our approach to robust going forward.
cyber security in light of recent changes to data Existing capabilities comprehensively protection legislation.
reviewed and consideration given to future Provide an objective assessment of business developments in the area of cyber security.
capabilities in light of the relevant risks.
Areas of risk identi ed and future priorities agreed.
37 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 See our Board Eff ectiveness Review on p39 BOARD ACTIVITIES CONTINUED TOPIC ACTIVITIES DISCUSSION ACTIONS ARISING PROGRESS Leadership & Discussed succession, Review Board composition and diversity policy.
39% of our Board members were female as talent development Continue to support executive director and senior at close of the 2015 16 financial year, reducing Employees and diversity across management development.
to 36% following the retirements of Marc management.
Deliver robust succession planning and nurture Bolland and Martha Lane Fox on 2 April 2016. internal talent pipeline to provide our people Ongoing initiatives include Leadership with the required skills and capabilities for today Development Service, mentoring and coaching.
Signi cantly refreshed approach to development of internal talent through introduction of initiatives such as the Fit To Lead The Future programme.
Reviewed the composition Ongoing commitment to maintaining a balance Approved the appointments of a new and succession planning of appropriate skills and experience among the Chief Executive and an additional procedures of the Board Board and its Committees.
Discussed employee Conduct a thorough review of how we reward our Proposed new approaches to pay and pensions engagement, reward people with emphasis on fairness, consistency and initiated a period of consultation with and pensions.
employees through our National Business Evaluate results of annual Your Say and quarterly Involvement Group.
Pulse surveys to identify areas for improvement.
Increased engagement with our people across all areas of the business.
Discussed improvement Introduce a new customer engagement strategy Successful launch of Sparks with over 4m Customers of customer engagement and encourage a more centralised relationship registered members since October 2015. through introduction of with the customer.
Progress made in addressing early challenges innovative new reward Drive further promotion of Sparks to help following launch.
customers understand the proposition and the bene ts of membership.
Notable successes in refreshed style Reviewed Clothing & Drive market share growth through improved product ailability, pricing consistency and range focus.
credentials and improvements in Home strategy.
Build foundational elements required to support sustainable growth in Clothing & Home.
Discussed development Evaluate new concepts and in-store enhancements Directional focus on customer with emphasis of brand and customer to improve customer experience.
on simplicity and financial responsibility.
Consider future evolution of the M&S brand and Ongoing rollout of refreshed store fascias product proposition.
and enhancements to in-store environments.
Continue to re ne our customer understanding.
Reviewed the performance Review of developments during the year and Progress made in embedding digital mind-set and progress of M&S.
further promotion of digital mind-set as key facet at heart of strategy.
Strong growth and improved returns achieved Continue to invest in building digital capability in 2015 following challenging transitional year to provide a better experience for customers.
Continued progress in improving customer satisfaction.
Discussed security risks Review of incident reporting and management Delivered crisis management exercises across aff ecting the business.
procedures to ensure ongoing security awareness.
UK Crisis Management Teams and duty manage with con dence courses across the International business.
Values Discussed continued 104 Plan A commitments to be achieved by 2020.
Review progress made in 2015 16 and set priorities 40 on plan, 1 behind plan.
Identi ed strategic priorities for 2016 17.
Reviewed organisational Review ways of working across stores and offi ces.
Introduced Smarter Working workstream to culture and improvements Consider implementation and business impact of evaluate and improve use of offi ce space.
Proposed a new approach to future pay Evaluate M&Ss pay positioning in context of wider positioning.
Shareholder Encouraged strong Actively support engagement opportunities.
30 largest shareholders invited to our engagement with fifth annual Governance Event, hosted by engagement investors and the Chairman.
Reviewed feedback Speci c issues raised by shareholders to be Communicate progress made in key topics from shareholders in addressed in Chairmans statement.
Reviewed the success Evaluate overall performance of the scheme Successful delivery of the scheme over of the first years during the year and consider future viability.
two dividend payments during the year.
operation of the Consider feasibility of extending the scheme Ongoing assessment of the schemes Payment Plus Scheme.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 38 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD CONTINUED SUCCESSION In January 2016 we announced that after that he was considering his retirement employees leave the business in a range six years in the role, Marc Bolland would and that the Board, with the assistance of situations.
In addition, our focus on retire as CEO.
We advised that Marc would of the Nomination Committee, may want succession demonstrates our commitment be succeeded by Steve Rowe on 2 April.
to step up their succession search.
to recruit, retain, develop and promote high At the time of the announcement Steve performing staff.
In reaching its conclusion to appoint was Executive Director of General Steve as CEO, the Nomination We believe our approach to succession Merchandise.
To ensure a smooth transition Committee set a rigorous assessment, is strategic, thoughtful and practical.
Marc agreed to remain available to Steve development and selection process, We appoint on merit against objective and the Board until 30 June 2016. including external benchmarking.
criteria and with due regard to the When Marc joined M&S he indicated bene ts of diversity in its widest fide nition.
Succession is not just about Board informally that he would serve a tenure We ensure that new appointments come appointments.
Succession and succession of five to six years.
Having guidance from with the required quali cations, experience planning remain key agenda items to the date of appointment assisted with the and skills to meet the challenges ahead.
ensure a continuous supply of suitable planned and orderly succession of the CEO individuals ready to take over when role.
In the summer of 2015, Marc indicated directors, senior staff or other key DIRECTOR INDUCTION STEVE ROWE INDUCTION Steve already had a unique considerable received a thorough induction led by Over his time with M&S Steve has understanding of M&S.
His journey to the the Chairman.
Steve led Food through experienced many changes to the business Board started when he joined the business three years of continued growth.
In 2015 and operated under the diff ering leadership over 25 years ago.
Steve undertook and Steve moved from Food to Clothing & styles of six Chief Executives.
progressed through a number of storeHome.
These roles have provided an Following the announcement of his based positions, which provided him with in-depth understanding of the business appointment as CEO, Steve met with the a clear understanding of our customers, and the structures within our offi ces.
Chairman, each of the non-executive and their expectations, and the demands on Over the past two years, Steve has executive directors, the Group Secretary, our store-based employees.
received mentoring from senior business members of senior management and Moving to Head Offi ce in 1993, Steve leaders and has undertaken executive a wide range of individuals from across the worked in a variety of roles across all development programmes in the UK business.
Steve met with the Companys areas of the business including menswear, and overseas.
This was to broaden his lead audit partner and its remuneration merchandising, home, online and the store understanding of core business functions advisors.
Steve has met with some of our estate.
In 2012 he was appointed to the and global strategic management.
Board as Executive Director of Food and ANDREW FISHER INDUCTION During the year, the induction process succession plans: Board procedures governance and all relevant consumer has been reviewed based on feedback including the Governance Framework, and industry bodies, Corporate Social from earlier tailored programmes.
Code of Ethics and Behaviours: Board Responsibility, environment and The comments from the review were calendar, minutes from previous meetings, sustainability.
used to update the induction process for eff ectiveness reviews and action plans: Sentiment and reputation, including: brand Andrew Fisher, who joined the business in nances, performance, operating plans, positioning and media pro le: marketing December 2015. current KPIs and targets, operational campaigns: brand values: analyst and overview of all business areas: key Andrews induction was comprehensive investor opinion: review of investor surveys: relationships, including suppliers and and tailored to his understanding of share register and voting history: key major contracts: Group Risk Pro le and the business.
It was led by the Chairman stakeholder relations including employees, our approach to risk: insight into key and covered: customers, suppliers and service providers: audits and areas of focus.
opinion leaders: an overview of our Company structure and strategy, including: Industry and competitive environment, remuneration policy and pensions.
our history: strategy including details of all including: customer trends: consumer key investment decisions, key people and and regulatory environment including 39 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW The assessment of the M&S Board was The evaluation was based around a Strategic and risk debate: conducted according to the guidance set number of key areas: Governance, regulatory compliance out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board composition, role, skills, and support: Given the change in leadership, the Board diversity, balance and experience: Committee performance.
were keen for its evaluation to highlight Board leadership and culture: learnings from the past and build on these The Board was asked to re ect on its for the future.
The evaluation was internally Agenda, information, papers and action plan set out at the start of the facilitated by the Group Secretary and resource: 2015 16 financial year and the summary undertaken from February to April 2016. of the Boards assessment of progress Monitoring company performance: against this plan as at December 2015.
Stage 1: A comprehensive questionnaire Stage 3: A report was compiled by the recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
60 questions with rankings and open text Group Secretary based on the information Robert Swannell also received a separate boxes was sent to each Board member, and views provided.
All recommendations report with feedback on individual directors.
along with a copy of the previous years were based on best practice as described Following the Board meeting, the Group evaluation and action plan.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code Secretary gave feedback on the Chairman and other current corporate to the Senior Independent Director, Stage 2: Alongside the questionnaire, governance guidelines.
and to the Committee Chairmen on Board members participated in one-onthe performance of each committee.
one discussions with the Group Secretary.
Stage 4: Draft conclusions were discussed The Senior Independent Director also met with the Chairman and subsequently the with the non-executive directors to review whole Board at its meeting in May 2016. the Chairmans performance.
This review The conclusions of that discussion were is then shared with the Chairman.
STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 STAGE 4 COMPREHENSIVE ONE-ON-ONE EVALUATION AND DISCUSSION WITH QUESTIONNAIRE DISCUSSION REPORTING CHAIRMAN AND THE BOARD The Board evaluation for the 2016 17 financial year will be facilitated by F on Hague.
BOARD REVIEW INSIGHTS 2015 16 Overall the Board is considered strong, The subsequent discussions on the As a result, items from last years bringing a good balance and mix risk process and risk appetite, post Action Plan will continue to form of expertise and experience and investment reviews and action follow the base for the 2016 17 Plan.
off ering real diversity of view up were positively highlighted.
Board Committees were all considered and perspective.
However, despite the progress on to work well and were noted for their Progress was felt to have been last years evaluation, views on Board level of debate, grasp of key issues made against the 2015 16 Action Plan, eff ectiveness continue to be tempered and overall subject and regulatory particularly in relation to the quality by the overall business performance.
The Action Plans for the of management information.
Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees are set out on pages 40 to 41, 42 to 46 and 50 to 71 respectively.
BOARD ACTION PLAN THE BOARD ACTION PLAN 2016 17 WILL COVER: oversight of business change and key business and strategic risks and greater knowledge of and interaction performance: associated risk appetite parameters: with senior management and wider employee community.
key performance indicators and link to strategic context: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
