Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Audit Committee Report Committee membership Nick Backhouse Chairman Neil Goulden Robin Rowland Responsibilities Reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements including the Interim Results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management system.
Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Audit Reviewing the Groups systems for detecting fraud, preventing Committees Report for the period ended 1 October 2016. bribery and allowing employees to raise concerns in a safe and confidential manner.
The Committee is comprised wholly of Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
Each Committee member contributes their Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
own financial and business experience to effectively assess the external Overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, specifically and internal audits of the Group and the internal control and risk reviewing and approving their fees and the terms of engagement.
The Board is satisfied that both Neil Goulden Reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors objectivity and and I meet the requirements of the Code as having recent and relevant independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee members challenge and debate the reports, statements and findings presented to them.
Throughout the year, we have continued our focus on the integrity of Attendees financial reporting and internal controls.
The Committee continues to The Corporate Risk Director and external Auditors attend monitor changes in regulation and reviews the potential impact on the each meeting.
Groups financial reporting and assurance processes.
The Committee Other individuals, such as the CEO and CFO are usually invited to has reviewed the assurance process and risk management framework attend all or part of the Committees meetings.
to ensure that it remains appropriate and provides a robust assessment of the principal risks to the business.
The robust assessment is further supported by the Internal Audit function.
In response to last years Key activities during the reporting year external evaluation of the Internal Audit function, the Committee has reviewed the proposed internal audit strategy and the detailed audit plan Reviewing the main corporate risks and the outcomes from for the next 12 months.
The strategy and plan ensures that the Internal testing the systems and processes for managing and mitigating Audit function provides independent and objective assurance targeted those risks.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the Risk to help the business achieve its strategic objectives by improving the ManagementFramework provides sufficient assurances.
effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
Drafting a viability statement that assesses the prospects of the Having reviewed the external audit process, the Committee believes that Group over an appropriate period.
The Committee considered that PwC continue to provide an effective audit service and recommends their the Groups existing five year financial planning horizon makes re-appointment to shareholders.
As previously disclosed, a formal tender thattime period most appropriate.
will be conducted during the next 12 months and, given the length of their Considering the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Results tenure, PwC will not be invited to tender.
We will also maintain our focus prior to review by the Board.
on the audit, assurance and risk processes within the business.
Following the evaluation of the Internal Audit function in the During the year, we were notified by PwC that the Financial Reporting previous reporting period, development of the internal audit Councils Audit Quality Review team would review PwCs audit of the strategy and review of the internal audit plan.
Groups 2015 financial statements, as part of their annual inspection of Review of accounting policies and standards, including the audit firms.
The overall assessment of the audit found there were no property valuation policy and planning for the new lease significant areas of concern.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, I received accountingstandard effective 2020. a copy of the concluding letter and have discussed the detailed findings of the review with our Audit Partner at PwC.
The recommendations from the review have been incorporated into the audit of the 2016 Terms of reference financial statements.
F ull terms of reference of the Committee can be found intheInvestors section of the Companys website.
co. uk Chairman of the Audit Committee 45 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Audit Committee Report continued The Company has complied during the financial year under review, and Auditors and Internal Audit up to the date of this report, with the provisions of the Statutory Audit The external Auditors attend each meeting, which allows the Committee Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of the opportunity to review and challenge the integrity of the Groups Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities financial reports.
The external Auditors also present their audit strategy, Order 2014. findings and conclusions in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Results.
In addition, at least once a year, the external Auditors The Corporate Risk Director attends each Committee meeting providing meet the Committee without any Executive Director present to provide an ongoing assurance and regular updates on the Groups main risks opportunity for open dialogue and feedback.
and the scope and findings of internal audit.
A number of standing items were reviewed by the Committee during the period including In assessing the work of the external Auditors, the Committee continues the Whistleblowing Policy, matters arising from internal audits and to be satisfied with the scope of their work and their effectiveness, and compliance and legal developments.
recommends their re-appointment to the Board.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the external Significant financial judgements Auditors, and the safeguards to protect it, remain strong noting In recommending the Interim Results and Annual Report and Accounts the following: to the Board for approval, the Committee reviewed in particular the The external Auditors conduct an annual review of their accounting for and disclosure of the following key matters: independence identifying all services provided to the Group and Property valuation.
The Committee reviewed the valuation of the assessing whether the content and scale of such work is a threat to property estate and agree with managements view that there are their independence.
no market indicators, events or impairment triggers that would The Committee accepts that some non-audit work is most indicate a material change in the values determined by the external appropriately undertaken by the external Auditors.
The Committees valuation of the entire property portfolio in 2015.
The Committee terms of reference set out what is permissible and where such work questioned the impact of a business rates rise and were satisfied is expected to be in excess of a specified amount, the Chairman of with managements assertions that it is not a material issue for the the Audit Committee must approve the work.
Below that amount, the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups valuation policy CFO has authority to approve such work once he is satisfied that the and agree that it remains appropriate.
Auditors are the most appropriate providers.
In 2015 16 the Group Non-underlying items.
The Committee noted the importance of engaged PwC to undertake work on the Group company structure, maintaining appropriate and consistent treatment of items disclosed covenant reporting and the interim review.
In total this amounted as non-underlying to provide comparability of performance year on to 0.3 million.
The Group has used other accounting firms for year.
The Committee also noted that the amount for non-underlying some non-audit work.
In each case, consideration is given to the items was significantly less this year.
Taking into account the quality need for value for money, experience and objectivity required in the of underlying profits, and in particular the threshold for treatment of particular circumstances.
property-related matters, the Committee were satisfied that each Following the issue of the EU Audit Directive in June 2016, the policy item classified as non-underlying was appropriate and consistent on non-audit work was reviewed by the Committee in September with prior periods and the Groups accounting policy.
The full policy is available on our website but, in summary, from the 2016 17 financial year: F ees for non-audit services provided by the statutory auditor in any year may not exceed 70% of the average fees for the Group statutory audit in the three previous years.
The audit or will be prohibited from providing certain non-audit services, including: almos t all tax work: int ernal audit: c orporate finance: inv olvement in management activities, including working capital and cash management and the provision of financial information.
The audit partner is changed at least once every five years.
A new partner was appointed during the 2012 13 financial reporting period and is next due to rotate after the 2016 17 financial year.
As previously reported, the Company will conduct a full tender of the external audit during the next 12 months.
Fees paid to the external Auditors are disclosed in note 3 of the Financial Statements on page 84 46
