Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
Leadership Governance framework The Board Principal Committees PLC Exec Audit Nomination Remuneration Supporting Matters Reserved Roles and Committees for the Board Responsibilities Risk & Compliance Committee terms of reference Management Business Continuity Committees Data Security Assurance MIT and MBC Divisional Making Corporate Implementation Internal controls Boards Disclosure Marstons Responsibility of Strategy Auditing Leadership Group Monitoring The Place Legal and regulatory performance to Be compliance Enterprise-wide risk management Ways of Working The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term The PLC Exec and other Management Committees oversee the success of the Group.
Our governance framework allows the Group implementation of strategy and monitor performance.
The Supporting to operate within a defined set of prudent and effective controls which Committees provide assurance to the Board through the operation of set out roles and responsibilities, accountabilities, the assessment and internal controls, auditing and ensuring the Group remains compliant management of risk and enable the delivery of our strategic objectives.
with legal and other regulatory obligations.
The framework is supported The principal decision-making body within the Group is the Board and by the risk management process see page 20 and our Ways of Working the schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually see page 10. and includes matters relating to: strategy, major capital expenditure, Board composition acquisitions and disposals, capital structure and financial results, internal Our Board currently comprises nine Directors.
In addition to the controls, governance and risk management, Committee membership Chairman, Roger Devlin, there are five Non-executive Directors and and terms of reference.
The schedule, last reviewed in September 2016, three Executive Directors.
Neil Goulden will retire from the Board at the is available on our website.
Certain roles and responsibilities have been conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
He will be succeeded as Senior Independent delegated by the Board to its principal Committees.
Each Committee Director by Carolyn Bradley.
Catherine Glickman will become Chairman Chairman reports to the Board on decisions and actions taken.
The terms of the Remuneration Committee.
When considering the appointment of of reference for each Committee are reviewed annually to ensure they a new Non-executive Director, the Nomination Committee considers the remain fit for purpose and comply with the provisions of the Code.
additional skills and experience that will enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
We consider all of our Non-executive Directors to be independent and the charts below portray the balance and tenure oftheBoard as at the date of this report.
Balance between Executive and Male female representation on Board Tenure of Chairman and Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors 1 2 3 2 2 5 7 2 Chairman Male 03 years Non-executive Female 36 years Executive 6 years 36 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Roles and responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The key responsibilities for each Board member are set out below.
More information about our Board members and the relevant experience they each bring to the business is set out on the following pages.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Roger Devlin is responsible for: Ralph Findlay is responsible for: The operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
The performance of the Group in line with the strategies and objectives established by the Board and under powers delegated Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board.
Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions with a Ensuring the Board is supplied with information relevant to its particular focus on strategic matters.
Ensuring each Non-executive Director makes an effective Leading the Executive Directors and senior management in contribution to the Board through debate and discussion with dealingwith the operational requirements of the business.
Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct.
Ensuring through the Group Secretary that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The effective and ongoing communication with shareholders.
Senior Independent Director Chief Financial and Corporate Development Officer Neil Goulden is responsible for: Andrew Andrea is responsible for: Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary Working with the CEO to develop and implement the Groups for the other Directors.
Leading the Non-executive Directors in their annual assessment The financial delivery and performance of the Group.
Ensuring that the Group remains appropriately funded to pursue Making himself available to shareholders, particularly if they have the strategic objectives.
concerns that the normal channels have failed to resolve, or for Investor relations activities, and communications with investors, which such contact would be inappropriate.
Other Non-executive Directors Group Secretary Carolyn Bradley, Nick Backhouse, Catherine Glickman and Robin Anne-Marie Brennan is responsible for: Rowland are responsible for: Ensuring effective information channels within the Board and Constructive challenge on proposals on strategy.
its Committee, and between senior management and Nonexecutive Directors.
Contributions to the development of longer-term strategy.
Advising on regulatory compliance and corporate governance.
Meeting with the Chairman, at least annually, without the Executive Directors being present.
Facilitating individual induction programmes for Directors and assisting with their development as required.
Scrutiny of management performance in the delivery of strategic objectives and monitoring operational and financial performance.
Communications with retail shareholders and organisation of the AGM.
Chairman of Risk & Compliance Committee and DataSecurity Committee.
