CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 Dear Shareholder, The Committee reviewed Board succession planning against the I am pleased to report to shareholders on the main activities of Groups 2020 Strategy objectives.
theCommittee and how it has performed its duties during 2016.
The Committee developed the process for individual performance Ichair Nomination Committee meetings, but would not do so and development reviews at Board level.
wherethe Committee was dealing with my own re-appointment orreplacement as Chairman.
The Board evaluation carried out independently by Equity Communications concluded that the Board was the right size for the business and was very well balanced, with a good mix of skills Andrew Allner and experience.
Chair of the Nomination Committee OUR FUTURE TARGETS Succession planning will continue to be organised against a clear timetable to preserve continuity whilst regularly refreshing the composition of the Board.
Recruitment and succession planning will recognise the changing needs of the business and its long-term strategic priorities.
Recruitment and succession planning will be designed to incorporate fully the Groups inclusivity and diversity objectives.
Recruitment and succession planning will be aligned with ahealthy and well understood corporate culture.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS Andrew Allner Chair Janet Ashdown Mark Edwards Tim Pile The Groups policies are designed to support positively the widening of opportunity for talented individuals regardless of gender, ethnicity or social background.
42 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and we are fully engaged with the ongoing initiatives in the business Role and responsibilities The Boards Nomination Committee fulfils a vital role in terms of succession as a whole to improve diversity ratios and gender balance.
We will do this through meetings and discussions with management, planning and Board performance.
Its Terms of Reference include: monitoring progress and ensuring that these principles are followed Board succession planning, including size, composition and in briefs to external recruitment agencies and search consultants.
balance of skills and experience, giving due weight to the Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject achievement of diversity in its widest sense: tore-appointment and the Companys Articles of Association and recruitment and induction of candidates for appointment subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal totheBoard: ofaDirector.
The Committees framework forsuccession planning reviewing individual performance evaluation outcomes for is designed to phase future recruitment so that the composition Directors standing for election or re-election in advance ofthe Board can be refreshed whilst ensuring continuity.
oftheAnnual General Meeting: and Reappointment of Directors monitoring conflicts, reviewing the Board conflicts policy, Each Non-Executive Director was, on joining, provided with a detailed description of his or her role and responsibilities, and maintaining the conflicts register and considering any newnotifications.
All Directors have an annual one-to-one development review meeting with the Chairman to The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the appraise performance, set personal objectives and discuss any externally led Board evaluation process in 2016, and the Committee development and training needs to enable them to continue to add Terms of Reference were also reviewed.
value to the Board, with an assessment of individual and collective During the year the Nomination Committee held 2 scheduled performance with contributions from senior management and other meetings, and additional meetings and discussions in connection business stakeholders.
with succession planning and recruitment were held by telephone.
Before any Director is proposed for re-election, or has their Attendance at meetings is shown on page 40. appointment renewed, the Committee considers the outcome Recruitment and succession planning ofthereviews to ensure that the Director continues to be effective The philosophy of the Nomination Committee is that recruitment anddemonstrates commitment to the role.
The Chairman provides and succession planning should reflect the changing strategic needs an explanation to shareholders as to why the Director should be and objectives of the Group, both now and in the future, as well as re-elected and confirming that a formal performance evaluation being an important factor in the development of a strong corporate hastaken place when the resolution to re-elect is circulated.
In this context, we are wholly committed to achieving It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors can only hold diversity in its widest sense in the composition of the Board and 1external listed company Non-Executive directorship.
Voluntary senior management, and we welcome the increased focus on service onthe governing board of a social, trade or charitable diversity from shareholders and other commentators.
The Groups organisation isalso permitted.
Details of the external appointments policies are designed to support positively the widening of held by the Executive Directors are included in the biographical opportunity for talented individuals regardless of gender, ethnicity notes on page 34. orsocial background.
The Strategic Report includes details of currentgender ratios and some of the measures taken in 2016 During the year, I ceased to be Senior Independent Non-Executive tohelpachieve our objectives on page 26.
Director and Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee at Northgate plc.
There have been no other changes to my own other commitments During 2016, the Committee reviewed Board succession planning during the year, which are also listed on page 34. against the 2020 Strategy objectives of the Group, and updated its Governance written succession plan accordingly.
It also developed the process forindividual performance and development reviews at Board level.
The Committee has acted in accordance with the principles of the Code in developing and applying its succession plans and policies.
The 2016 Board evaluation carried out by Equity Communications was very positive in its comments on the composition and skills of The Committees effectiveness, including the effective application ofthose principles, is assessed as part of the annual Board evaluation the Board, concluding that the current Board size was appropriate, and that the range of skills and experience was well balanced, with process.
The framework for the refreshment of skills, experience and diversity to support the needs of the business and its stakeholders allDirectors making a valuable contribution to Board proceedings and to the wider business.
in the future is transparent and wellunderstood.
During 2017, the work of the Committee will give priority to an Andrew Allner organised timetable for Board succession, taking care to preserve the Chair good balance between Non-Executive and Executive Directors and 15 March 2017 the strengths identified in our external Board evaluation.
We will increase our focus on inclusivity and diversity objectives both at Board and senior management level.
In particular, in fostering corporate culture, we recognise the importance of Board leadership Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 43
