64 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Nominations Committee report Chairmans introduction Committee membership and attendance during 2016 The Nominations Committee plays aleading role in assessing Meetings Meetings the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the Name eligible to attend attended Groups principal committees.
The Committee identifies the Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 4 4 1 roles and capabilities required to meet the demands of the Mr S G Young 4 4 business and ensures that asuccession plan is in place.
Mr G S Berruyer 4 4 Candidates continue to be considered on merit against specific Mr C R Day 4 4 criteria determined by the Committee.
Ms A J P Goligher 4 4 Mr P Heiden 4 4 In December 2016, the Board, taking into account investor Ms B L Reichelderfer 4 4 feedback on the Chief Executive being a member of the 1 Stephen Young stepped down from the Committee on 14 December 2016.
Nominations Committee, reviewed the Terms of Reference for the Committee and amended them to remove the Chief Executive Terms of Reference as a member.
As a result, Stephen Young stepped down as a The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference.
member of the Committee in December 2016.
There were no These were reviewed and updated in 2016 and are published further changes to the Committee, which is now comprised of onour website.
the Non-Executive Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Responsibilities All appointment decisions were made following arigorous The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition search process using executive search firm The Zygos including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership assists with other senior Board and, in consultation with the directors, makes executive searches below Board level, but has no other recommendations to the Board on any proposed changes.
Decisions on Board changes are taken by the Board as awhole.
Key facts Relevant experience for Meggitt Tony Wood Chief Operating Officer Significant business and operational experience in the aerospace industry, most recently at Rolls-Royce plc UK citizen where he held a number of senior management Engineer positions during a 15-year career, latterly as President, Aerospace.
Joined the Board on 1 December 2016 Extensive industry experience invaluable to support our customers with the unprecedented ramp-ups of their new programmes, whilst accelerating the progress of our strategic initiatives.
Nancy Gioia Non-executive director A number of senior roles across engineering and manufacturing operations most recently at Ford Motor US citizen Company during a 30-year career.
Electrical engineer Enables the Board to retain critical US and engineering Joining the Board on experience and gain the benefit of experience from the 27 April 2017 fast-moving automotive industry as we accelerate the pace on our key strategic initiatives.
It was also announced that Brenda Reichelderfer will retire from the Board in April 2017.
Brenda has brought significant US, engineering and operational experience from the aerospace industry to the Board and her independent advice and counsel since her appointment in 2011 has been invaluable to the Board.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 65 In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the Succession services of the Company Secretary and may seek external The Group operates asuccession planning process which professional advice at the Groups expense.
enables the identification and development of employees with thepotential to fill key business leadership positions in the Group.
Board diversity In 2016, the Board reviewed detailed executive succession plans The Board confirms astrong commitment to diversity including, for each division and function with the Group Organisational but not limited to, gender diversity at all levels of the Group.
The Development Director, including plans for the executive directors Boards policy on diversity commits Meggitt to: and each member of the Group Leadership Team and other high potential individuals around the Group.
Each individual on the Ensuring the selection and appointment process for succession plan has regular performance reviews and individual employees and directors includes adiverse range of development plans.
candidates: Board composition and succession for the Chairman and Disclosing statistics on gender diversity in every Annual non-executive directors is regularly discussed by the Report see page 52 : and Nominations Committee.
Reviewing this policy from time to time and continuing to disclose this policy in the Annual Report.
Evaluation During 2016, the Board used Independent Audit to perform an Based on the current size and composition of the Board and external evaluation using the process described on page 59. taking into account current succession plans, the Board has Oneof the outcomes of the evaluation is that the Nominations determined that there should be aminimum of two female Committee should continue to evolve discussions around directors, which is currently the case, and will continue to be the succession planning for the Board and senior executives.
case when Brenda Reichelderfer is replaced by Nancy Gioia.
The Board remains committed to ensuring that the directors bring awide range of skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds and perspectives.
Our directors are from the UK, US and France, andhave arange of different skills and experience.
The Committee notes the updated requirement under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR for our 2017 Sir Nigel Rudd Annual Report to disclose our diversity policies with regard to Chairman of the Nominations Committee aspects such as, for instance, age, gender, educational and 27 February 2017 professional backgrounds.
Our diversity data is disclosed in our Corporate responsibility report.
The Board appointment process for the Nominations Committee is to engage an external recruitment consultant and agree a role specification for the role to be filled.
A sub-committee of directors are then usually engaged to conduct a search for a long-list of candidates, which is then reduced to a short-list of candidates whom are interviewed.
As well as their experience and suitability for the role, the Committee and the Board take account of the number of positions a director already holds in other companies, to ensure that they will have sufficient time tofulfil their role at Meggitt.
