56 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate governance report continued Leadership | Our governance framework: Chairman Executive Directors Board of directors Sir Nigel Rudd Stephen Young, Doug Webb, Tony Wood and Board of directors Leads the Board and sets the agenda: PhilipGreen Membership Ensures the Board is effective: Responsible for successful achievement of the Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman, Facilitates the contribution of non-executive Groups objectives and strategy: and executive and independent directors and oversees the relationship between Managing various functions and operations non-executive directors them and the executive directors: and across the Group.
Ensures there is an effective system for Creating and delivering communication with shareholders.
sustainable shareholder value Non-Executive Directors Guy Berruyer, Colin Day, Alison Goligher, Retains full and effective Senior Independent Director Paul Heiden and Brenda Reichelderfer control of the Group and Paul Heiden Constructively challenge management and collectively responsible for Makes himself available to shareholders if they scrutinise their performance: its success: have concerns which cannot be resolved through Contribute to the development of the Groups Sets the Groups strategy, the normal channels: strategy: ensures appropriate Chairs the Nominations Committee when it is Monitor reporting of the Groups performance: resources are in place to considering the Chairman of the Boards Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial achieve the Groups succession: information and the effectiveness of financial objectives: Appraises the Chairmans performance annually controls and risk management: and Reviews performance with the non-executive directors: and Determine appropriate levels of remuneration regularly: Acts, if necessary, as a focal point and forexecutive directors and participate in the Sets the Groups values and intermediary for the other directors.
selection and recruitment of new directors and standards: and succession planning.
Ensures obligations to shareholders, employees and Chief Executive Stephen Young other stakeholders are met.
Company Secretary Leads executive directors and the senior Marina Thomas executive team in the day-to-day running of the Acts as secretary to the Board and its Groups business: Committees: Ensures effective implementation of Board Ensures compliance with Board procedures and decisions: advises on governance issues: Regularly reviews the strategic direction and Facilitates the induction process for new operational performance of the Groups business: directors: and and Ensures good information flow within the Board Keeps the Chairman informed on all important and between non-executive directors and senior matters.
Board committees Remuneration Audit Nominations The independent non-executive directors The independent non-executive directors Chairman and the independent non-executive directors Determines the reward strategy for theexecutive Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial Ensures the Board and senior management team directors and senior management, to align their statements and the effectiveness of the external have the appropriate skills, knowledge and interests withthose of the shareholders.
experience to operate effectively and to deliver theGroups strategy.
Ethics and trade compliance Finance Disclosure Chairman, one independent non-executive The executive directors Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Chairman director and the executive directors of the Audit Committee and the executive directors Ensures the implementation and application of the Approves treasury-related activity, insurance Discusses and approves all matters related to Ethics and Business Conduct and Trade Compliance andother matters delegated bythe Board.
inside information under the market abuse regime.
Management committees Group Leadership Team Operations Leadership Team Commercial Committee Chief Executive and his direct reports plus the Chief Operating Officer and his direct reports Executive directors, Group Head of Sales & Marketing direct reports of the Chief Operating Officer and Group Director, Engineering & Strategy The most senior decision-making and supervisory The operational decision-making and supervisory Reviews and approves bids and proposals of Group group, responsible for oversight of the Groups group, responsible for implementing the strategies, significance and any other significant commercial implementation of the strategies, aims and aims and objectives of the Board and Group activity.
objectives of the Board, and other matters as Leadership Team, and other matters as specified by specified by the Chief Executive.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 57 Board membership, attendance and governance Scheduled meetings Meetings Name Title eligible to attend attended 1 Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 7 7 Mr G S Berruyer Non-executive director 7 7 Mr C R Day Non-executive director 7 7 Ms A J P Goligher Non-executive director 7 7 Mr P E Green Executive Director, Commercial and Corporate Affairs 7 7 Mr P Heiden Non-executive director 7 7 2 Ms B L Reichelderfer Non-executive director 7 7 Mr D R Webb Chief Financial Officer 7 7 3 Mr A Wood Chief Operating Officer 1 1 Mr S G Young Chief Executive 7 7 1 Met the independence criteria on appointment as Chairman on 23 April 2015.
2 Retiring from the Board on 27 April 2017.
Board governance documents Document Last reviewed and Notes approved by the Board Roles of the 2016 These document the separate and clear division of responsibilities that have been Chairman and approved by the Board.
ChiefExecutive Non-executive On appointment and Available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours directors terms of re-confirmed on a and at the AGM.
appointment three-yearly basis Service contracts for On appointment Available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours executive directors Not routinely and at the AGM.
reviewed but would be updated on role change or if legislation required Schedule of matters 2015 Setting the Group strategy, approving the annual budget: reserved for the Changing the Groups capital structure and capital allocation policy: 1 Board Approving acquisitions and disposals above a certain threshold: and Approving results announcements, annual reports and dividends.
Terms of Reference 2016 For Board Committees.
Articles of 2010 Available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours Association and at the AGM.
Also available on Companies House online.
1 Ifadecision is not reserved for the Board, authority lies, in accordance with authorisation policies and terms of reference, with aBoard committee, amanagement committee, the Chief Executive or other executive director, divisional president or site director.
58 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate governance report continued 2016 activity In 2016, the Senior Independent Director met with the nonexecutive directors to assess the performance of the Chairman In 2016, the Board visited facilities in the US and UK and and the Chairman held regular meetings with non-executive received regular reports from executive management on directors without the executive directors present.
The strategy and business performance, financial performance Chairman and the non-executive directors find it useful to have including treasury activity and commercial and corporate the opportunity to review and discuss the performance of affairs including commercial, legal and compliance.
The Board covered the following specific items during 2016: During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the Boards minutes.
In October, there was a Board session dedicated to a detailed review and discussion of the Groups strategy including a full portfolio review: Effectiveness Composition The Board also received information on the new market The Board considers it has agood balance of executive and abuse regime and took into consideration the impact of non-executive directors, is of an appropriate size and has the those new requirements which came into effect in July independence, skills, experience and knowledge to enable the 2016, approved a new Disclosure Committee which would directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities be responsible for matters relating to inside information effectively.
and listing, and approved a revised Share Dealing Policy: Divisional and functional updates and presentations All non-executive directors are considered independent under onoperational performance, Customer Services & Support the Code.
aftermarket, engineering and technology, programme Board Committee disclosures: management, senior executive succession, operations, IT andinvestor relations: All non-executive directors are members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees on appointment.
The Groups strategic plan: Chairmanship of Committees is considered during Reports on internal control, risk management and going discussions on composition and succession.
concern: and No one other than Committee chairmen and members are Reports on the activities of its committees.
entitled to attend the meetings, although others can be invited.
In 2016, the Board reviewed and approved: Each of these Committees written terms of reference were The appointment of Tony Wood as Chief Operating Officer reviewed and updated in 2016 by the Board and are available effective from 1December 2016 and Nancy Gioia as a on our website.
non-executive director effective from 27 April 2017 : All Committee chairmen report orally on the proceedings of The sale of Meggitt Target Systems businesses in the UK their Committees at the next meeting of the Board.
Where and Canada: appropriate, the Committee chairmen make The 2017 budget: recommendations to the Board on appropriate matters.
The 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, 2015 full-year Further details of the composition and activities of these results and 2016 interim results announcement: Committees are set out in the separate Committee reports.
The April and November 2016 trading statements: Recommendations to shareholders on the final dividend Appointments and time commitment payment for the year ended 31 December 2015 and approval There is aformal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the of the interim dividend payment for the year ended 31 appointment of new directors.
Full details of the process for December 2016: appointments made during the year are available in the The Groups risk appetite and risk register: Nominations Committee report set out on pages 64 and 65.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is amatter The conflicts of interest register for the Board: for the Board.
The Treasury Policy, Risk Management Policy, The letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive Anti-Corruption Policy, Ethics and Business Conduct Policy, directors set out the time they are expected to commit.
The Code of Conduct and Share Dealing Policy: Chairman and non-executive directors may undertake several Terms of Reference for the Committees of the Board: appointments, which require approval of the Board and are The documents defining the roles of the Chairman and CEO: reported on pages 54 and 55. and Resolutions to be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Since the year-end, up to the date of the Annual Report, the Board has approved the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, the2016 full-year results announcement and the proposed finaldividend for the year ended 31 December 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 59 Board evaluation During 2016, the Chairman attended all scheduled Board and The Board conducted an externally facilitated review in 2016.
Committee meetings, including a tour of several of our US and Independent Audit were selected as external facilitators, and they UK sites.
He also had regular meetings with the Chief interviewed all of the Board members and the Company Secretary.
Executive, attended multiple shareholder meetings about Independent Audit have no other connection with the Group.
governance and represented Meggitt and our interests at other events.
The Chairman holds other appointments, but the Board Key themes identified in the report from Independent Audit: and the Senior Independent Director can confirm that the time The Board benefits from a good balance of skills in terms dedicated to Meggitt matters in 2016 by the Chairman was of industry focus and functional expertise.
significant and appropriate for the activities and issues that The non-executives have diverse backgrounds and are able arose during the year.
to tackle issues from a range of perspectives.
Development Meeting dynamics are positive with a good level of The Chairman agrees apersonalised approach to the training contribution and constructive challenge.
and development of each director and reviews this regularly.
The The Board is led by a skilled Chairman who is appreciated Company Secretary, who facilitates the induction of new directors by his colleagues.
The Chief Executive and Chairman enjoy and assists with professional development where required, a good working relationship and, more generally, continues to enhance the induction process following feedback relationships between non-executives and executives from directors.
appear to be working well.
Since Tony Wood joined the Board, he has been through The non-executives perception of the executive team is that acomprehensive formal induction programme, including they are professional and hard-working and they meetings with other directors, senior management, investors, particularly value their openness and the way the Chief auditors, brokers and other professional advisors, as well as Executive has driven improvements on a variety of fronts.
extensive site visits in the UK, US and Europe.
Processes around deliberating and approving strategic decisions and risk management continue to evolve Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and positively.
their training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation The Board sets itself high standards of integrity, and a process.
Their knowledge and familiarity with the Group is clear and rigorous ethics programme is in place.
facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the Committees at Meggitt work well, and Committee chairmen business and site visits.
Resources are available to all directors are highly regarded.
to develop and update their knowledge andcapabilities.
Information and support Opportunities to improve: The Chairman is responsible for ensuring directors receive Continuing to evolve Board discussions on succession accurate, timely and clear information and is satisfied that planning, strategy and risk management.
The evaluation effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive found that significant progress had been made in all of and Chief Financial Officer, is undertaken with shareholders.
these areas over the last few years, and that the Board agreed that there is always scope to further progress the The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge depth and quality of discussions in these areas.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and Committees and between senior management and non-executive directors.
The Accountability Board members have regular discussions about their information Financial and business reporting and support requirements and discuss the effectiveness of the The financial statements contain an explanation of the directors annual Board schedule during the Board evaluation.
responsibilities in preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements pages 91 and 92 and astatement by the auditors During the 2016 Board evaluation, the content of the Board concerning their responsibilities page 99.
The directors also papers and annual Board schedule were reviewed by the report that the business is agoing concern page 92, detail how directors and assessed by the external facilitators.
It was the Group generates and preserves value over the longer term determined that both were working well and enabled the Board the business model and describe the Groups strategy for to carry out its business effectively and efficiently.
delivering its objectives in the Strategic report pages 1 to 52.
The directors have also made astatement about the long-term All directors have had access to the advice and services of the viability of the Group, as required under the Code page 33.
Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for advising on all governance matters.
Relations with shareholders The Group values its dialogue with institutional and private During 2016, the Board and Committees held specific investors.
governance discussions on the 2016 Code and Guidance for Audit Committees, the Market Abuse Regulation and the The Board communicates with private investors via direct requirements related to the Modern Slavery Act and Gender communication with our Vice President, Strategy & Investor Pay Gap.
Relations and the Company Secretary and content distributed or made available onthe investor relations section of our website The Board allows all directors to take external independent and at the AGM see below.
professional advice at the Groups expense.
60 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Corporate governance report continued Effective communication with fund managers, institutional The proxy form and the voting results announcement make it investors and analysts about the Groups strategy, performance clear that avote withheld is not avote in law and will not be and policies is promoted by meetings involving, principally, the counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives against the resolution.
and discusses reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on substantially Financial Officer and the Vice President, Strategy & Investor separate issues and there is aresolution relating to the financial Relations on the views of shareholders, which are discussed.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to Chairman and other non-executive directors are available to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Directors understanding of major shareholders views is enhanced by reports from the Vice Meggitt encourages shareholders to vote at the AGM and President, Strategy & Investor Relations, our brokers and provides afacility for electronic proxy voting.
Shareholders who attending analysts briefings.
Analysts notes on the Group are are not CREST members can vote online on resolutions proposed made available to all directors.
at the AGM via our website, after voting has opened.
Proxy cards contain further details on how and when to vote and further Investor relations activity, 2016 highlights: information for CREST members.
An investor day was held in April 2016 and covered an The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and update on our Customer Services & Support organisation, Nominations committees are available at the AGM to respond an overview of our applied research and technology to questions.
It is customary for all other directors to attend.
activities including a focus on research in manufacturing technologies, and profiles of both our Meggitt Aircraft At the AGM to be held on 27 April 2017, in addition to the routine Braking Systems and Meggitt Polymers & Composites business, shareholder consent will be sought on the authority divisions, which included an overview of the expanded to convene general meetings on 14 clear days notice in composites capability following the acquisitions completed accordance with the Articles on the terms set out in the Notice in late 2015.
It was attended by 26 sell-side analysts and eight of Meeting.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a buy-side investors who also participated in tours of our two matter of routine for such meetings, but only where facilities in Shepshed, UK.
The feedback from the day was time-sensitive matters are to be discussed and where merited positive and the presentation on our Customer Services & in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The directors also Support function was particularly well received.
All of the intend to follow other best practice recommendations as presentations are available on the investors page on our regards this authoritys use.
At the 2017 AGM, in line with emerging best practice, the Aspecific letter was issued to major shareholders after the Company has split the dis-application of pre-emption rights AGM in 2016, offering ameeting with the Chairman.
As a resolution into two separate resolutions.
The first resolution result, the Chairman met with a number of our major seeks authorisation for 5% of the issued share capital to be shareholders to discuss matters relating to governance and issued without application of pre-emption rights, whilst the strategy.
We will continue to offer these meetings annually.
second resolution seeks authority for an additional 5% of the A consultation letter was issued on our revised issued share capital to be used for an acquisition or a specified Remuneration Policy in the Autumn, as a result of which, capital investment.
This is in accordance with the Statement of anumber of policy changes have been proposed to Principles issued by the UKs Pre-Emption Group in 2015.
In shareholders for approval see page 68. asking shareholders to approve this additional authority, the directors confirm that they intend to adhere to the requirements set out in the Statement of Principles.
We also engaged with ISS Institutional Shareholder Services, IVIS Institutional Voting Information Service of the Investment All directors are subject to election by shareholders at their Association and Glass Lewis before and after the AGM.
firstAGM after their appointment, as will be the case in 2017 for Shareholder documents Mr A Wood and Ms N Gioia.
After that, all directors are subject to We provide annual reports and other documents to shareholders re-appointment annually to comply with the Code.
All directors in their elected format under the electronic communications inoffice at the date of the AGM will be subject to election or provisions approved by shareholders at our AGM in 2007. re-election with the exception of Ms B Reichelderfer who is Electronic copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2016 and retiring from the Board on 27 April 2017 and will not stand for the Notice of AGM will be posted on our website, with re-election.
announcements, press releases and other investor information, By order of the Board including an analysis of ordinary shareholders by size of holdings and shareholder type.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
Proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote on M L Thomas resolutions or to withhold their vote.
All proxy votes for, against Company Secretary and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars and the 27 February 2017 level of voting for, against and withheld on each resolution is made available after the meeting and on the Groups website.
