STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 61 Audit Committee report Work of the committee in 2016 In 2016, the Audit Committee: Reviewed the financial information contained in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, 2015 full-year and 2016 interim results announcements and recommended them to the Board for approval: Negotiated and approved the 2016 external audit fees: Discussed the external auditors strategy memorandum and interim audit clearance report for 2016: Reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, and agreed their terms of engagement: Chairmans introduction Received reports from internal audit at each meeting, I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2016. discussed significant items and the effectiveness of internal I chair the Audit Committee and as aFellow of the Association of audit, and approved the 2017 internal audit plan: Chartered Certified Accountants, and previous Chief Executive Received atreasury update from the Head of Tax and Officer ofEssentra plc and Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Treasury: Benckiser Group plc, I can confirm that I bring recent and Reviewed and approved updated Terms of Reference: relevant financial experience to the Committee.
Received technical accounting and governance updates Committee members throughout 2016 were Guy Berruyer, provided by theGroup Financial Controller, Group Alison Goligher, Paul Heiden and Brenda Reichelderfer.
CompanySecretary and the external auditors.
This included a presentation from the Group Financial Controller on IFRS By invitation, there were anumber of other regular attendees 15, the new revenue accounting standard that becomes including the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial effective for the Group in 2018.
The Committee discussed Controller and the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman with management its process to date, preliminary of the Board, the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and the conclusions and implementation plan: Executive Director, Commercial & Corporate Affairs also Discussed and agreed the timetable for external audit attended meetings by invitation.
tender: The Audit Committees key role is to engender confidence in the Discussed the impact of the amendments in the 2016 Code integrity of our processes and procedures relating to internal and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees: financial control and corporate reporting.
The Board relies on Reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of i the systems the Committee to review financial reporting and to appoint and of internal control: ii the risk management process, and oversee the work of the internal and external auditors.
iii the process executive management used to enable the The work of the Committee in 2016 is described below in detail.
Board to make the viability statement: and Itincluded advising the Board on whether these accounts are Reviewed the effectiveness of the Committee, external and fair, balanced and understandable, review of the work carried out internal audit using the process described on page 63.
There by executive management on the viability statement and were no significant findings and the Committee confirmed it oversight of the risk management process.
was satisfied with the outcome of the evaluation.
Since the year end, the Committee has approved the 2016 Annual Committee membership and attendance in 2016 Report and Accounts and full-year results announcement and Meetings Meetings recommended them to the Board for approval and provided Name eligible to attend attended advice to the Board that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, Mr C R Day Committee chairman 3 3 taken as awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The 3 3 Mr G S Berruyer Committee provided this advice having reviewed managements 3 3 Ms A J P Goligher process and confirmed its output, and provided confirmation to 3 3 Mr P Heiden the Board that this process was effective.
3 3 Ms B L Reichelderfer The Committee also recommended that the Board approve the viability statement, having overseen the viability Terms of Reference statementprocess throughout the year as described on The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which page 33 and confirmed their agreement to propose outline the key responsibilities of the Committee and are thereappointment of the external auditors to shareholders available on our website.
Audit Quality Review The Terms of Reference were reviewed and updated in 2016.
In 2016, the FRCs Audit Quality Review team reviewed the audit Since their last review in 2014, the Committee has taken on work carried out by PwC on our 2015 Annual Report and responsibility for the oversight of risk management processes, Accounts.
The Committee discussed the FRC review with PwC.
and the FRCs viability statement requirements have come into There were no significant findings arising from the review.
As a force, so the Terms of Reference were amended to reflect the result, there were no significant actions identified, by either the Committees increased responsibilities in these areas.
auditors or the Committee, to be undertaken.
62 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Audit Committee report continued Significant judgements relating to the financial statements The table below summarises the significant judgements reviewed by the Committee in respect of the Groups financial statements.
Significant judgements Action The principal judgements are managements determination of the level at which impairment testing should Goodwill and other be performed, the achievability of business plans and therefore future cash flows, growth rates beyond intangible assets arising the period covered by the five-year business plans and the appropriateness of the discount rates applied on an acquisition to future cash flows.
The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions, confirmation that the cash flows used were derived from the 2017 budget and strategic plan which in their role as members of the Board, Committee members had previously reviewed, a sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and an analysis of the headroom at each significant level at which testing was performed.
During the year, management determined that certain CGUs should be grouped together for impairment testing, reflecting the extent to which the Group had become more integrated and these were set out in the report to the Committee.
The Committee agreed the judgements made by management were appropriate, including the change to the level at which impairment testing was performed, and that no impairment was required.
The Committee discussed a report from management covering exposure to different aircraft platforms and Development costs manufacturers and a sensitivity analysis on specific programmes.
The Committee focused in particular and programme on the Bombardier CSeries and Dassault 5X in light of the values capitalised on these platforms.
Further participation costs analysis was also requested of management on amounts capitalised in the year and the extent to which the level of capitalisation, excluding the impact of exchange differences, was starting to reduce as aircraft programmes entered service.
The Committee concluded assumptions made by management were reasonable and the carrying value and estimated useful lives of the assets were appropriate.
The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the basis for the judgements made and Provision for environmental the extent to which these were supported by third party specialist advice.
The Committee discussed with matters relating to management the sensitivity of amounts recorded to increases in cost estimates and delays to the timing of historicsites and related clean-up activities, including the impact on insurance policy limits and insurance policy periods of cover.
insurance receivables The Committee agreed with the judgements made by management.
Retirement benefit Assumptions on mortality, inflation and, particularly in the current market environment, the rates at which scheme liabilities are discounted have a significant impact on the value at which retirement benefit obligations obligations are included in the financial statements.
The Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis on which the 2016 assumptions had been determined, how the Groups assumptions used in its 2015 financial statements benchmarked against those disclosed by other large corporate entities and, for the UK scheme, the extent to which demographic assumptions reflected the results of the triennial actuarial valuation completed in the year.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions used, which were supported by third party actuarial advice, were appropriate.
Fair value of assets and The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the principal areas of judgement applied in finalising the fair values of the assets and liabilities of the businesses acquired in late 2015.
These included liabilities acquired in business attributing fair values to intangible assets acquired in the business combinations, the method of accounting combinations and fair value of the joint venture arising from the EDAC acquisition and assumptions made on anticipated sales volumes, future pricing and the outcome of ongoing discussions with third parties in respect of onerous production contracts.
The Committee agreed with the conclusions reached by management on the method of accounting for the joint arrangement and concluded that the fair values attributable to the acquired assets and liabilities, which in the case of the acquired intangible assets and joint venture were supported by third party valuation advice, were appropriate.
Income taxes Judgements have to be made by management on the tax treatment of a number of transactions in advance of the ultimate tax determination being known.
In assessing the appropriateness of the provision recognised in respect of uncertain tax positions, the Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions made.
They discussed the assumptions in light of the current tax environment and the status of tax audits in the main jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Committee concluded that the position taken on uncertain tax provisions was appropriate.
Treatment of items excluded The Committee discussed the treatment and disclosure of costs and income included within exceptional operating items and merger and acquisition M&A related items.
The Committee noted the items reflected from underlying profit the way in which they, as members of the Board, reviewed the underlying performance of the Group, were measures treated consistently year on year and were disclosed appropriately.
The Committee discussed each of the above judgements with the external auditors before reaching their conclusions.
Key areas of oversight External audit The external auditors are  LLP PwC The lead audit partner is Mr Andrew Paynter whose appointment who were appointed as Group auditors for the financial year in thisrole commenced with the audit for the financial year commencing 1 January 2003 on 2 October 2003 after ended 31December 2013.
Mr Paynter has had no previous acompetitive tender.
There are no contractual obligations involvement with the Group in any capacity.
restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 63 Internal audit During the year the Committee discussed and agreed an outline The Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan which is audit tender process to select the Groups auditors for the 2018 developed according to a risk assessment process and ensures financial year, the key dates of which are: that adequate resources are available to execute the plan.
The Determination of selection panel criteria, short list for tender risk assessment process divides our business units into three June 2017 tiers determined by financial measures, but subject to a Issue RFP, meetings, presentations and responses from invited discretionary risk based adjustment if there are circumstances parties July to September 2017 which suggest a site should have an audit accelerated.
Tier 1 Committee decision recommendation end of October 2017 businesses are visited annually, with Tier 2 businesses visited Board approval November 2017 every other year and Tier 3 businesses every third year.
The tender process will take into account FRC audit quality review In 2016, internal audits were carried out at 27 Group sites, reports.
The mandatory rotation of auditor under EU rules does not including the UK and US finance shared service centres, as part take place until 2023. of the three year rotational audit cycle.
The business unit audit programmes scope includes finance, sales agents distributors, Under the current regulations, the Committee is required to HR payroll and commercial bid & proposal activity.
The scope of tender and rotate the external audit by 2023.
However, the internal audit continues to develop with the business, particularly Committee determined that as the audit had been with PwC as a result of any acquisition and disposal activity.
A key role of since 2003 and was reaching the end of the current audit partner the Committee is to monitor the level of internal audit resource to rotation period, it was appropriate and in the best interests of the ensure it remains appropriate as both the Group and internal Company and our shareholders to tender the audit for the 2018 audit evolve.
The Committee remains cognisant of increasing cyber complexity The Committee routinely meets PwC without executive and associated risks.
Internal audit have a co-source arrangement management present and no concerns have been raised.
It was with Grant Thornton UK LLP to assist with resourcing specialist confirmed that the external auditors had been able to offer audits, such as IT.
The 2016 IT audit plan included reviews of IT rigorous and constructive challenge to executive management security, IT strategy, third party providers, data protection, policies during the year.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC and the The results of these audits are regularly discussed with the external audit process using aquestionnaire and aCommittee Group Head of Audit & Risk by the Chairman of the Audit discussion on responses to the questionnaire.
The Committee Committee between Audit Committee meetings.
At each meeting, was satisfied with PwCs performance and the external audit the Committee receives a status update on the internalaudit process, that PwC had employed an appropriate level of programme, discusses and challenges any significant issues professional challenge in fulfilling their role and there were no arising and monitors implementation by the businesses of any significant findings from the evaluation process.
also considered the result of the FRCs Audit Quality Review see above.
The Committee has determined, on the basis of the The Committee routinely meets internal audit without executive satisfactory outcome of the evaluation and the Audit Quality management present.
No concerns have been raised and it was Review, that it will recommend that the Board submit the confirmed that the internal auditors had been able to carry out their re-appointment of PwC to shareholders for approval at the AGM work and offer constructive challenge to executive management in 2017 for the 2017 financial year.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of internal audit and confirmed that they were satisfied.
Non-audit services The Group places great importance on the independence of its Whistleblowing external auditors and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not The Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee is responsible compromised.
The Committee agrees fees paid to external forreviewing the process for handling allegations from auditors for their services as auditors and is required to approve, whistleblowers.
In February 2017, the Ethics and Trade in advance, any fees to the external auditors for non-audit Compliance Committee confirmed that it was satisfied with services in excess of 0.1 million.
theGroups process for handling whistleblowing allegations.
Details of fees paid for audit services, audit-related services Whistleblowing is included in our Ethics and Business Conduct and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the Groups Policy and Code of Conduct, which are available on our website.
Fees paid for non-audit The Group sponsors an independently operated and monitored services in 2016 were less than 0.1 million 2% of the total audit Ethics Line, enabling employees to report concerns about fee and average fees paid for non-audit services for the last possible misconduct, with proportionate and independent three years to 2016 were less than 0.1 million 1% of the total investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
audit fee over that period.
Fees paid for non-audit services  are received regularly by the Ethics related to services allowed to be provided by PwC under the andTrade Compliance Committee as part of the report from Groups policy on non-audit services.
theExecutiveDirector, Commercial and Corporate Affairs.
The Groups policy on non-audit services was updated in 2016 to Compliance with Audit Services Order reflect the latest regulatory position, and covers services that We comply with the Competition and Market Authority Order 2014 can be provided and which are generally prohibited for example relating to the audit tendering and the provision of non-audit internal audit services and tax planning and sets out the services, as discussed further above.
procedures for approving non-audit services.
The full policy is On behalf of the Audit Committee available on our website under Audit Committee in the Governance section.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the office of PwC conducting the audit or PwC as awhole and Colin Day therefore the objectivity and independence of the external Chairman of the Audit Committee auditors was not compromised.
