54 54 M ME EG GG GI IT TT P T PL LC C R RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 16 6 B Bo oa ar rd d o of f d dir ire ec cto tor rs s Meggitts Board is characterised by world-class experience of UK, mainland European and North American businesses spanning multiple sectorsmany with global reach.
Sir Nigel Rudd DL Stephen Young Committee membership Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Audit Committee Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British Nominations Committee Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee in 2004, prior to appointment as Chief Executive Finance Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Chartered accountant with extensive Board Chartered management accountant with wide experience spanning multiple sectors including experience in all financial disciplines gained from aerospace, retail and financial services.
national and multi-national businesses across multiple sectors.
Current appointments Non-Executive Chairman of BBA Aviation plc and Current appointments Non-Executive Chairman of SappiLimited.
Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chairman and member of Risk and Remuneration committees Appointments in unlisted companies: Nonof Derwent London plc.
Executive Chairman of Business Growth Fund Plc.
Previous appointments Previous appointments Senior financial positions held previously Chairman of Williams Holdings plc, Kidde plc, includeGroup Finance Director, Thistle Hotels plc Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited formerly and Group Finance Director of the Automobile BAALimited, The Boots Company, Pilkington Association.
PLC, Pendragon PLC, Invensys plc and Aquarius Platinum Limited.
Deputy Chairman of Barclays PLC and Non-Executive Director of BAE Systemsplc.
Guy Berruyer Colin Day Alison Goligher OBE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2012 | Nationality: French Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2014 | Nationality: British Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Trained as electrical engineer at the cole Chartered certified accountant with significant MEng Petroleum Engineering.
Brings specific oil and Polytechnique Fdrale fide Lausanne and holds a experience in senior operational and financial roles gas experience to the Board, including technology Harvard Business School MBA.
Brings significant gained across avariety of sectors including management expertise and experience running experience to the Board as aformer FTSE-100 engineering and technology, pharmaceuticals, oil diverse functions and businesses within globally ChiefExecutive.
Current appointments Current appointments Current appointments Appointments in unlisted companies: Chairman of Colin served as Chief Executive of Essentra PLC Non-Executive Director of United Utilities Group software engineering company Linaro Limited, until 31 December 2016 and will remain on the PLC, the UKs largest listed water company.
director of the French software and services Board until the conclusion of Essentras AGM on Appointments in unlisted companies: Executive company Berger Levrault and member of the 20April 2017.
Chairman of Silixa Limited, a provider of distributed Council of the University of Southampton.
Senior Independent Director of Amec Foster fibre optic monitoring solutions.
Previous appointments Group Chief Executive of The Sage Group plc until Appointments in unlisted companies: Various roles at Royal Dutch Shell from 2006 to 2015, 5 November 2014.
Chief Executive of Sage Group Non-Executive Director of FM Global.
most recently, Executive Vice President, Upstream plcs Europe and Asia division.
Early career spent International Unconventionals.
Previously spent with software and hardware vendors in French Previous appointments 17years at Schlumberger, asupplier of technology, and other European management roles.
Chief Financial Officer, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, integrated project management and information Group Finance Director of Aegis Group plc, solutions to oil and gas customersworldwide.
Non-Executive Director of WPP plc, Easyjet plc, Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Cadbury plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 55 Philip Green Paul Heiden Brenda Reichelderfer Executive Director, Commercial and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Corporate Affairs Senior Independent Director Appointed: 2011 | Nationality: American Appointed: 2001 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2010 | Nationality: British Retiring from the Board on 27 April 2017 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Chartered accountant, with considerable experience Skilled engineer and business leader with and Administrators and Fellow of the Institute of in senior executive and financial roles in aerospace.
considerable US aerospace and industrial Directors with significant legal and compliance experience.
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Current appointments Current Appointments the Audit Committee of London Stock Exchange Non-Executive Director of Federal Signal Appointments in unlisted companies: Group plc.
Non-Executive Chairman of Intelligent Corporation and Chairman of their Compensation Non-Executive Director and Vice Chairman of Poole Energy Holdings plc.
and Benefits Committee and Non-Executive Hospital NHS Foundation Trust since 25 April 2015 Director of Moog, Inc.
Appointments in unlisted companies: Nonand Chairman of their Audit and Governance Executive Chairman of A-Gas Orb Limited.
Appointments in unlisted companies: Senior Vice Committee since 1 December 2015.
Member of President and Managing Director of private equity theGC100 and the Dorset Employment and Previous appointments sector consulting firm TriVista.
Chief Executive of FKI Plc, senior positions, including Director, Industrial Business and Finance Previous appointments Previous appointments Director of Rolls-Royce plc and senior financial Senior roles at ITT Industries Corporation including Meggitts Company Secretary from 1994 to 2006, positions with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co, Senior Vice President, Director of Engineering, after 14 years at British Aerospace in company Hanson Plc and Mercury Communications.
Chief Technology Officer and Group President secretarial roles.
Non-Executive Director of United Utilities Group oftwo operating divisions.
Non-Executive Director PLC, Bunzl plc, Essentra PLC and Chairman of of Wencor Aerospace.
Doug Webb Tony Wood Nancy Gioia Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer To be appointed as Non-Executive Director on 27 Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2016 | Nationality: British April 2017 Nationality: American Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chartered accountant who has held senior Extensive aerospace industry experience gained Electrical engineer who has held senior engineering international financial positions in defence, during a 15-year career with Rolls-Royce plc where and operational roles with a strong background in aerospace, engineering, technology and he held a number of senior management positions, manufacturing.
Previously Current appointments spent16 years at Messier-Dowty, now part of Current appointments Non-Executive Director of Exelon Corporation and Safran Group.
Non-Executive Director of SEGRO Plc, Chairman Brady Corporation and Chairman of their oftheir Audit Committee and member of their No other current or previous appointments Technology Committee.
Appointments in unlisted companies: Member of Appointments in unlisted companies: Member the University of Michigan Electrical and Computer ofthe Hundred Group of Finance Directors and the Engineering Advisory Council and Dearborn Investment Advisory Committee of Fitzwilliam Engineering Deans Advisory Board.
Principal of College, Cambridge University.
Previous appointments Chief Financial Officer of London Stock Exchange Previous appointments Group plc and QinetiQ Group Plc and various senior Held several key executive positions at Ford Motor financial roles in both the UK and US for Logica Company during a 33-year career.
AutomotiveNEXT and Stanford University Alliance for Integrated Manufacturing.
