JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 26 Governance continued Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code the UK pre-emption rights resolutions 12 and 13 Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the UK The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best up to 4,777,852 Ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate practice for investment trusts.
nominal amount of 1,194,463 such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital as at the last The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of practicable date before the publication of this document.
The full corporate governance and considers that the Company has text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate pages 61 and 62.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Governance Code and the AIC Code throughout the year under AGM of the Company in 2017 unless renewed at a prior general review, other than in respect of the engagement of an external meeting.
recruitment consultancy, which is explained below.
It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares to Role of the Board participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan savings A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets products and also to other investors when the Directors consider out the matters which have been delegated to the Manager.
This that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues includes management of the Companys assets and the provision are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, of accounting, company secretarial, administration, and some they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys marketing services.
administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is charged on the value of the Companys market capitalisation, over a All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
The issue proceeds are available for formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its future Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital resolution 14 structure, appointment and removal of third party service At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2015, shareholders providers, review of key investment and financial data and the gave authority to the Company to enable it to purchase up to Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
14.99% of its then issued share capital.
This authority will expire At each Board meeting, Directors interests are considered.
These on 19th November 2016 unless renewed by shareholders.
The are reviewed carefully, taking into account the circumstances Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the surrounding them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved.
interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at It was resolved that there were no actual or indirect interests of a a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV enhances the Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company, which NAV of the remaining shares.
Repurchased shares may be arose during the year.
cancelled or held in treasury.
The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts Approval of dividend policy resolution 15 of interest and following the introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, The Directors seek approval of the Companys dividend policy to has adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
continue to pay four quarterly interim dividends, which for the year It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during ended 31st January 2016 have totalled43 pence per share.
Recommendation The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional The Board considers resolutions 12-15 are likely to promote the meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is success of the Company and are in the best interests of the provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
holdings which amount in aggregate to 66,995 shares This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the representing approximately 0.07% of the existing issued ordinary advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMF, which is share capital of the Company.
The full text of the resolutions are responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable rules and set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 61 and 62. regulations are complied with and that Board procedures are followed.
Corporate Governance Statement Compliance Board Composition The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists of seven governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as Directors Responsibilities on page 34, indicates how the Company independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial of investment, business and financial skills and experience relevant 26 JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 27 Governance continued to the Companys business and brief biographical details of each Meetings and Committees Director are set out on pages 22 and 23.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown with There have been no changes to the Chairmans other significant the Directors profiles on pages 22 and 23.
Directors who are not commitments during the year under review.
members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of the Chairman.
annual performance evaluation of the Board.
The Board appointed The table below details the number of Board, Audit Committee Sandy Nairn as its Senior Independent Director with effect from 3rd and Nomination Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were six Board meetings, three Audit The Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
performance of the Chairman and may be contacted by These meetings were supplemented by additional meetings held shareholders if they have concerns that can not be resolved through to cover procedural matters and formal approvals.
In addition discussion with the Chairman.
there is regular contact between the Directors and the Manager Tenure and Company Secretary throughout the year.
The Chairman, Sandy Nairn and Ian Russell, having been Directors Audit Nomination of the Company for more than nine years, have retained their Board Committee Committee independence by submitting to annual re-election.
In this regard, Meetings Meetings Meetings the Board recommends the re-election of Hamish Leslie Melville, Director Attended Attended Attended Sandy Nairn and Ian Russell, who, having served in excess of nine 1 years, retire and offer themselves for re-election at this years AGM.
Hamish Leslie Melville 6 6 3 3 1 1 They have a wealth of experience in the financial sector, as set out Helen James 5 6 2 3 1 1 in their biographies on pages 22 and 23, and make a valuable 2 Angus Gordon Lennox 2 2 2 2 n a contribution to the workings of the Board.
The Board considers that Harry Morley 6 6 3 3 1 1 Hamish Leslie Melville demonstrates effective leadership of the Sandy Nairn 5 6 2 3 1 1 Company.
Ian Russell 6 6 3 3 1 1 The Board has agreed that Angus Gordon Lennox will succeed Jeremy Tigue 6 6 3 3 1 1 Hamish Leslie Melville as Chairman, with effect from the close 1 Attended by invitation.
Over the next year, Mr Leslie Melville and 2 Appointed 23rd September 2015.
Mr Gordon Lennox will work to ensure the smooth transition of the Chairmanship.
Board Committees Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Nomination Committee Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, required that they be re-elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, consists of all the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure subject to the performance evaluation carried out each year, the that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each Director to seek to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable re-election.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance candidates for appointment when necessary.
The appointment Code, from 2011 onwards, Directors continuing in office have process takes account of the benefits of diversity, including sought annual re-election.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take account in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for of the benefits of these during the appointment process.
However, inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate the AGM.
candidate, regardless of gender or other forms of diversity.
Therefore, no targets have been set against which to report.
The Board recommends the re-election of the Directors who each seek re-election at this years AGM.
The Board engaged the services of an external recruitment consultancy, being Nurole, which has no other connection to the Induction and Training Company, to facilitate the recruitment of a new Director in 2015.
On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all Angus Gordon Lennox was appointed a Director on Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are 23rd September 2015. provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation, to affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are encouraged to ensure that the Board, all members of the Board and its attend industry and other seminars covering issues relevant to committees have devoted sufficient time and contributed investment trust companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors adequately to the work of the Board.
training needs are carried out by the Nomination Committee by means of the evaluation process described below.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 27 JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 28 Governance continued The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes Having taken all available information into consideration and having recommendations to the Board as and when appropriate, in discussed the content of the annual report and accounts with the relation to remuneration policy and implementation.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Investment Managers, Company Secretary and other third party service providers, the An externally facilitated Board evaluation is carried out every three Audit Committee has concluded that the Annual Report and years.
In 2011 and 2014 evaluations were carried out by Accounts for the year ended 31st January 2016, taken as a whole, Stephenson & Co, which has no other connection to the Company.
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and Audit Committee performance, business model and strategy, and has reported these The Audit Committee, chaired by Harry Morley, consists of all the findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are Directors other than the Chairman and meets at least twice each set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 34. year.
The members of the Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial Committee.
For details of their qualifications see pages 22 and 23. reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Mr Leslie Melville is not a member of the Audit Committee, preparation of the financial statements.
however, he is invited to attend meetings as a guest.
The Audit Committee reviews the terms of the management The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys risk Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the management and internal control systems, receives information Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
from the Managers Compliance department and reviews the At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee provides scope and results of the external audit, its effectiveness and cost confirmation to the Board as to how it has discharged its effectiveness, the balance of audit and non-audit services, and the responsibilities so that the Board may ensure that information independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit presented to it is fair, balanced and understandable, together with Committee also receives confirmations from the Auditors, as part details of how it has done so.
of their reporting, in regard to their objectivity and independence.
In the Directors opinion, the Auditors are considered During its review of the Companys financial statements for the independent.
year ended 31st January 2016, the Audit Committee considered the following significant issues, including those communicated by The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for making the Auditors during their reporting: recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal of external auditors.
A predecessor firm of  Significant issue How the issue was addressed LLP PwC was appointed on 8th January 1885, shortly after the Companys launch.
The audit engagement partner rotates every Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in five years in accordance with ethical guidelines and 2016 is the first investments note 1c to the accounts on page 44.
Controls are in year for the current partner.
place to ensure that valuations are appropriate and As part of its review of the continuing appointment of the Auditors, existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
the Audit Committee considered the length of tenure of the audit Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken firm, its fee, its independence from JPMF and the Investment investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 e to the Managers and any matters raised during the audit.
A formal tender accounts on pages 44 and 45.
The Board regularly exercise was undertaken in 2014, as a result of which PwC was reviews subjective elements of income such as reappointed.
Written submissions were received from five audit special dividends and agrees their accounting firms.
These were considered in full by Board representatives and a treatment.
shortlist of three firms was drawn up.
Meetings were held between a Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys Committee of the Board and the shortlisted firms, using a selection investment objective, risk management policies, checklist.
Following these meetings, one firm was chosen, which was capital management policies and procedures, the discussed with all Directors and the reappointment approved by nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow Board resolution.
A further tender review will be conducted in 2019 projections.
As a result, they have determined that and a change of Audit firm will be proposed to shareholders for the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate approval at the 2020 AGM.
financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational The Audit Committee reviews and approves any non-audit services existence for at least twelve months from the date of provided by the independent Auditors and assesses the impact of approval of these financial statements.
Please refer to any non-audit work on the ability of the Auditors to remain the section headed Going Concern on page 24 for independent.
PwC reviews debenture loan covenants on an annual further details.
Otherwise, no such work was undertaken during the year.
Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust Details of the fees paid for audit services are included in note 6 on Sections 1158 under Sections 1158 and 1159 has been obtained page 47. and 1159 and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
28 JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 29 Governance continued Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Audit Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the address Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts shown on page 67. are considered.
Having conducted the formal tender in 2014, and Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including the published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual quality of work, timing of communications and work with JPMF, the General Meeting.
Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation which Risk Management and Internal Control was put to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and independence, any risk management and internal control and to report to significant non-audit services are carried out through a partner other shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review than the audit engagement partner where appropriate.
Fees paid of all controls, which the Board has identified as including for audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
are set out, where relevant, in note 6 on page 47.
There were no The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk significant non-audit engagements during the year under review.
management and internal control which is designed to safeguard The Audit Committee has assessed the impact of any non-audit work the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and carried out and is content with the Auditors ability to remain ensure that financial information used within the business, or independent and objective.
The Directors statement on the published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to Companys system of risk management and internal control is set out manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business below and on page30.
objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not Terms of Reference absolute, assurance against fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have Since investment management, custody of assets and all written terms of reference which define clearly their respective administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on the its associates, the Companys system of risk management and Companys website, on request at the Companys registered office internal control mainly consists of monitoring the services provided and at the Companys AGM.
by JPMF and its associates, including the operating controls Relations with Shareholders established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company see It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Principal Risks on pages 20 and 21.
This process, which was in Companys activities and performance and reports formally to place during the year under review and up to the date of approval shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts, of the Annual Report and Accounts, accords with the guidance of and Half Year Financial Report.
This is supplemented by the daily the Financial Reporting Council.
As explained above, the Company publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset is not required to have an internal audit function of its own, but value of the Companys shares.
relies on the internal audit department of the Manager.
This All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to arrangement is kept under review.
The key elements designed to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the provide effective risk management and internal control are as Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person follows: to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review the Board of key investment and financial data, including Companys performance.
During the year the Companys brokers management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of and the Investment Managers hold regular discussions with larger transactions and performance comparisons.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors conduct visits to larger shareholders when Management Agreement Appointment of a manager, requested, and make themselves available as and when required to depositary and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on written agreement.
The Chairman can also be contacted via the Companys Management Systems The Managers system of risk website by following the Ask the Chairman link at management and internal control includes organisational www.
agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time to delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual monitored by the Managers Compliance department which General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules.
advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29 JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 30 Governance continued Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Stewardship Engagement Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under management and internal control by monitoring the operation of the Code, managers should: the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: regular reports from the Managers Compliance department: monitor their investee companies: reviews reports on the risk management and internal controls and the operations of its Custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: which is itself independently reviewed: be willing to act collectively with other investors where reviews every six months an independent report on the risk appropriate: management and internal controls and the operations of the have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting Manager: and record: and reviews quarterly reports from the Companys depositary.
By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and that it has carried out a robust assessment of the effectiveness of the supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that Companys system of risk management and internal control for the regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to year ended 31st January 2016, and to the date of approval of this our investment process and we also recognise the importance of Annual Report and Accounts.
being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
During the course of its review of the system of risk management JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised available on request from the Company Secretary or can be of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be downloaded from JPMAMs website: significant.
This also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its The Company delegates responsibility for voting to the Manager.
The following is a summary of the Managers policy statements on Future Developments corporate governance, voting policy and social and environmental Clearly, the future development of the Company is dependent issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Board.
Details of upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the social and environmental issues are included in the Strategic light of economic and liquidity market developments.
Investment Managers discuss the outlook in their report on Corporate Governance pages 9 to 10.
JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering By order of the Board superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of encourage the companies in which we invest to demonstrate the JPMorgan Funds Limited, highest standards of corporate governance and best business Company Secretary practice.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the board balance, 6th April 2016 oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
Proxy Voting JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a found on the respective organisations websites: www.
uk and prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable www.
co. uk judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
