Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 NOMINATION Committee Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee is satisfied Dear Shareholder The Board is fully compliant with the that management has implemented Board composition provisions of the credible and effective succession planning This report describes the activities of Code and reflects a wide diversity of across its senior management and has a the Nomination Committee during 2016. skills, experience, regional knowledge management structure which is The Committee met twice during the and backgrounds.
year and focused its attention on Board appointments, succession Committee Memberships Diversity planning and diversity.
During the year, a number of changes Merlins diversity policy, along with the were made to the membership of Committees Terms of Reference, was Board appointments the Committees.
Our policy is for During the year the following Board our employees to have a diversity of appointments were made: Following the Nomination Committee thinking, experience, gender, nationality meeting on 24 February 2016, Fru Hazlitt and cultural background.
Each Operating Rachel Chiang was appointed as stepped down from, and both Trudy Group has a Diversity Development Plan a Non-executive Director with Rautio and Rachel Chiang joined the which focuses on improving diversity effect from 1 January 2016: and Audit Committee.
Trudy Rautio stepped across the business.
We believe a diverse Anne-Francoise Nesmes was down from the Nomination Committee Board and management team is more in appointed as Chief Financial Officer and joined the Remuneration Committee.
touch with our customers, employees and on 1 August 2016 to replace Rachel Chiang joined the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
investors and this policy is reflected in our Andrew Carr who retired as recruitment approach at all levels.
Chief Financial Officer on 31 July 2016.
On joining the Board on 1 August 2016 Anne-Francoise Nesmes joined the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
Sir John Sunderland The Nomination Committee completed Chairman of the rigorous selection processes for these Succession planning Nomination Committee appointments.
To assist us we retained The Board and Nomination Committee 1 March 2017 the services of search consultancy firms, continued to assess the succession Russell Reynolds Rachel Chiang and planning arrangements during 2016, Korn Ferry Anne-Francoise Nesmes, focusing on Executive Director positions neither of which has any links with Merlin.
as well as other senior manager roles within the Group.
This review identified These two Board appointments ensure key individuals already in the Group, that its composition continues to bring for whom high level training and the appropriate balance of skills and development opportunities have experience.
Rachel Chiang brings been established and implemented.
significant knowledge and experience of the Asia Pacific market, particularly as We continue to discuss the Groups this region continues to be a key focus senior management and operational of strategic development.
Anne-Francoise structure and how that might Nesmes brings extensive finance and evolve as Merlin continues its international experience to the Board.
