Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE Governance Report Board membership and the Code Relationship agreement As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts the Company The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement complies and intends to continue to comply with the Code.
with KIRKBI dated 30 October 2013 which remains in force.
The Board will also take account of institutional shareholder Under the KIRKBI Relationship Agreement: governance rules and guidance on disclosure and shareholder KIRKBI is entitled to appoint one Director to the Board.
While KIRKBI together with its respective affiliates holds at least 10% of the Companys issued share capital, it may The Code recommends that a UK listed companys Chairman be appoint an observer with the right to attend and speak independent on appointment.
The Chairman was appointed in but not vote to the Board and each of the Audit Committee, December 2009.
The Board considers that the Chairman was Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
independent on appointment and remains so.
The Chairmans role is to ensure good corporate governance.
Major shareholdings As at 28 February 2017, the latest practicable date prior to the The Code recommends that at least half the members of the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had Board of Directors excluding the Chairman of a UK listed been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interest in company should be independent in character and judgement 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights.
and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Nature of The Board has concluded that, for the purposes of the Code, Charles Number of holding Gurassa, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt, Trudy Rautio and Rachel Chiang Name of ordinary % of issued Direct shareholder shares share capital Indirect should be regarded as independent Non-executive Directors and that their appointments were in the best interests of shareholders.
KIRKBI Invest A S 302,971,529 29.83 Direct Blackrock Although Mr Gurassa previously served on the board of Tragus Investment 87,937,149 8.66 Indirect Group Limited formerly a portfolio company of Blackstone, Management which was a shareholder in the Company until March 2015, UK Limited the other Directors have concluded that this relationship did The Wellcome 42,800,000 4.21 Direct not have any effect on the independence of Mr Gurassa.
Trust GIC Private KIRKBI was one of the pre-IPO major shareholders of Merlin 30,583,647 3.01 Indirect Limited along with Blackstone and CVC who ceased to hold any shares in the Company in March 2015.
KIRKBI presently holds 29.83% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Non-executive Director representing KIRKBI Sren Thorup Srensen is not Board and Committees regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code.
Board Committees The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the Board and for overseeing communications with all Board and Accordingly, the Board considers that, throughout the 2016 year, Committee members and shareholders.
He ensures that the the Company was in full compliance with the recommendation of Board receives sufficient information on financial, trading and the Code concerning the balance of independent Non-executive corporate issues prior to Board meetings.
The Board has established Health, Safety and Security: Audit: Remuneration: and Nomination Committees with formally delegated duties and responsibilities and written terms of reference.
In addition, from time to time, separate Committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues when the need arises.
66 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE Governance Report The terms of reference of each of the Board and its Executive Committee Committees are available on the Companys corporate The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for day-to-day website www.
operations and the development of strategic plans for consideration by the Board.
He is assisted in this by an The table below sets out the membership of the Board and Executive Committee of senior managers.
The Executive its Committees, during the year, together with the number Committee is not a formal committee of the Board.
of meetings held and each members attendance.
The tables overleaf contain further information in relation to the Board The members of the Executive Committee include the Chief and its Committees covering their respective responsibilities, Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer together with duties and Code compliance.
the Managing Directors of each Operating Group: the Chief Development Officer, the Chief New Openings Officer: the The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board and Group HR Director: the General Counsel and Company each of its Committees, have access to the advice and services Secretary and the Chief Information Officer.
of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary as well as external advice on, inter alia, legal, accounting, remuneration, health and safety and corporate governance matters.
Appropriate induction and subsequent training is provided to members of the Board and its Committees.
Health, Safety and Security Audit Remuneration Nomination 2, 3 3 3 3 The Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of meetings held 8 4 5 3 2 Sir John Sunderland #8 #4 N A 3 #2 Nick Varney 8 4 N A N A N A Anne-Francoise Nesmes 2 2 2 2 N A N A N A Charles Gurassa 8 4 5 #3 2 Ken Hydon 8 N A #5 3 2 Fru Hazlitt 7 4 1 1 3 2 Trudy Rautio 8 N A 4 4 2 2 1 1 Rachel Chiang 8 3 3 4 4 N A N A Sren Thorup Srensen 7 N A N A N A N A 4 Andrew Carr 6 6 2 2 N A N A N A Table notes: # Denotes Chairman.
1 Number of meetings attended during the year during period the respective Director was a member of the relevant Committee.
2 In addition to the Board members noted above, the Health, Safety and Security Committee also includes as members the Managing Directors of both the Resort Theme Parks and Midway Attractions Operating Groups and the Director of Health, Safety and Security.
These members attended all four meetings that took place in the year.
3 Details of the Committee changes during the year are included in the Nomination Committee Report on page 104.
4 Andrew Carr attended each of the Board and Health, Safety and Security Committee meetings prior to his retirement from the Board on 31 July 2016.
67 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE Governance Report The Board Health, Safety and Security Committee Principal The Board has overall responsibility for overseeing The Health, Safety and Security Committee assists the responsibilities the management of the Company.
Board in ensuring that health, safety and security matters are and duties managed effectively and proactively throughout the Group.
Overseeing the Companys strategy and management.
Determining the Companys capital structure.
Recommending to the Board, implementing and monitoring Overseeing the Companys financial reporting and controls.
the Groups health, safety and security policy.
Ensuring the Company maintains a sound system of internal Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups health and safety controls and risk management.
Approval of the annual capital expenditure budget, major Reviewing the health and safety resources available within the capital projects and strategic transactions.
Group and the skills of the health and safety management.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and Reviewing the adequacy of security processes and controls.
Reporting to the Board on matters within the remit of Considering and, if accepted, implementing the Committee.
recommendations from the Committees, including: Appointments to the Board and Committees: See the Health, Safety and Security Committee Report on Board and senior management rem uneration: pages 70 to 75 for further details.
Succession planning: and Changes to the Compan ys share incentive plans.
Appointing Committees and agreeing their terms of reference.
Corporate governance matters and reporting thereon.
Approving major policies, including: Health, safety and security policy: Fr aud policy: and Share dealing policy.
Approving the appointment of principal financial and professional advisers.
Approval of Group insurance programme.
Number of At least six times a year and as required or otherwise at the At least four times a year and at such other times as the meetings request of one or more of the Directors.
Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
Where urgent decisions are required on matters specifically reserved for the Board between meetings, there is a process in place to facilitate discussion and decision making.
Code We comply N A compliance The Code recommends that the Board of a UK listed plc should comprise at least 50% independent Non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
68 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE Governance Report Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board The Remuneration Committee assists the The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to Board in discharging its responsibilities in in discharging its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting and controls and external relation to remuneration.
the composition of the Board.
Setting the remuneration policy for Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge Reporting to the Board on matters within Executive Directors and the Chairman.
and experience on the Board.
Reviewing and making recommendations Reviewing the size, structure and Risk management process and internal to the Board on senior management composition of the Board.
controls, including whistleblowing and fraud.
Considering and making recommendations Financial reporting, including considering the Determining the individual remuneration to the Board on retirements, re-elections processes supporting the assessment of the and benefits package of each of the and appointments of additional and Groups longer term solvency and liquidity Executive Directors.
replacement Directors and on which underlie the Viability Statement.
Determining the fees of the Chairman.
Reviewing the design of share incentive Considering succession planning for both External audit.
plans for approval by the Board.
Executive and Non-executive Directors Ensuring appropriate reporting on and the Chairman.
See the Audit Committee Report on remuneration matters in the Considering the time required for pages 76 to 81 for further details.
Directors to fulfil their roles.
Developing a policy on diversity No Director may participate in discussions and reporting on progress thereon.
relating to his own terms and conditions Making appropriate recommendations of remuneration.
to the Board on matters within the remit of the Committee.
Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board.
See the Nomination Committee Report on page 104 for further details.
See the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 103 for further details.
At least three times during the financial year At least twice each year and at such At least twice each year and at such at appropriate times in the audit cycle.
other times as the Board or the other times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
In addition, it meets at such other times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires, or if requested by the external auditors.
We comply We comply We comply The Code recommends that an Audit The Code recommends that a Remuneration The Code recommends that a majority of the Committee should comprise at least three Committee should comprise at least three members of the Nomination Committee should independent Non-executive Directors independent Non-executive Directors.
and that at least one member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee consists of four independent The Committee is chaired by the Chairman Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
of the Board and consists of the Chairman The Audit Committee consists of four of the Committee and three independent independent Non-executive Directors.
Ken Hydon and Trudy Rautio are considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Further details are set out on page 65.
No members of the Audit Committee have links with the Companys external auditors.
