Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE Governance Statement Introduction Evaluation of effectiveness Merlin has a premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange During the year, externally facilitated evaluations were undertaken and is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman the Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs and individual Directors.
These were facilitated by Prism Cosec, and the Listing Rules.
Merlin believes that effective corporate who are independent of the Company and also advise the governance is a fundamental aspect of a well run company Company on company secretarial compliance matters.
and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance across the Group.
In this regard, Merlin takes account The evaluation involved the completion of questionnaires by of the views of its shareholders and institutional shareholder all Directors, the compilation of reports on the Board and each representative bodies.
The Code can be viewed on the website of its Committees by Prism Cosec and discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
The performance of the Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council www.
The DTRs was evaluated by the Non-executive Directors, led by the and the Listing Rules can be viewed on the website of the Senior Independent Director.
The outcome of the evaluations was very positive overall and no Statement of compliance major issues were flagged.
However some areas were identified Merlin was fully compliant throughout the accounting period with for further improvement including: all relevant provisions of the Code, the DTRs and the Listing Rules.
more Board time could usefully be spent debating key risk topics including identifying emerging risks such as Board composition cyber security : The Board has undergone a number of changes during the year.
suggestions for improving the format of the annual On 1 January 2016, Yun Rachel Chiang was appointed to the Board strategy day: Board as a Non-executive Director.
On 31 July 2016, Andrew the need to continue to bring further formality to the Carr left the Board, having announced his intention to retire in operation of the Nomination Committee and for increased January 2016.
He was replaced as Chief Financial Officer on focus on talent management and succession planning: and 1 August 2016 by Anne-Francoise Nesmes.
The appointments appointing an independent health and safety expert to of Rachel and Anne-Francoise, which have led to an increase the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
in Board diversity, followed rigorous search processes using Russell Reynolds and Korn Ferry respectively, both of which Following the 2015 Effectiveness Review a programme of are external search companies with no links to Merlin.
Director training sessions was delivered in 2016, including content on recent developments in corporate governance, such as the Fair, balanced and understandable impact of the new Market Abuse Regulations, specific training for As part of the Companys commitment to maintaining high Audit Committee members and recent trends and regulation in standards of corporate governance, the Board has put in place the area of executive remuneration.
The terms of reference of a process dedicated to ensuring that the Annual Report and the Boards Committees were also reviewed in early 2016.
Accounts is presented in a way that is fair, balanced and understandable.
This process includes a review of all Board Formal reviews of the internal audit function and the external and Committee meetings to identify matters for inclusion auditors, led by the Audit Committee, were also conducted and a series of specific reviews undertaken by a dedicated during the year and these concluded that both internal audit Disclosure Committee of senior managers.
and the external auditors remain effective.
60 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE Governance Statement Investor relations The Company communicates with institutional and private shareholders in a number of ways and has a dedicated investor relations team to facilitate the exchange of information and Merlin believes that feedback between shareholders and shareholder representative bodies and the Company.
Details of major shareholders are effective corporate governance provided on page 66. is a fundamental aspect of The Company undertakes regular meetings in which existing and a well run company and is potential investors are provided with information on the financial and trading position of the Group.
This activity is led by the committed to maintaining CEO and the CFO, together with the Companys investor relations team.
They report back regularly to the Board so that high standards of corporate the Non-executive Directors in particular can appreciate and governance across the Group discuss the views of shareholders.
During the year the Chairman and the Company Secretary also met with many of our leading Merlin was fully compliant shareholders to ensure a full and mutually constructive dialogue.
Merlins 2017 financial calendar is set out on page 174. throughout the accounting The Companys corporate website is regularly updated with news period with all relevant and information, including its Annual Report and Accounts, which provisions of the Code, the set out our strategy, operating model and performance together with our plans for future growth.
Our presentations to analysts DTRs and the Listing Rules and shareholders are also available on the Company website.
At our AGM, all shareholders have the opportunity to discuss and raise questions concerning the performance, trading and development of Merlin and to vote on the resolutions proposed.
