Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT Committee Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Similarly, we are fully satisfied with Dear Shareholder The Groups principal risks and KPMGs ongoing performance and their uncertainties are set out on pages approach to the audit: their work makes I am pleased to present the 2016 report 50 to 52. an important contribution to the integrity of the Audit Committee the Committee.
of the Groups reporting and again this The Committee has reviewed these year has resulted in a clean audit opinion.
The Committee has an annual standing and is comfortable the Company has agenda of matters to be examined and addressed them appropriately within its We continue to monitor regulatory in addition there are focused reviews ongoing operating model.
matters, including the requirement to of particular topics.
During the course retender the audit by 2023 and retender of the year the Committee met with Financial reporting the audit at least every ten years operational management to consider I am pleased to confirm that we believe thereafter.
The Committee is mindful financial, IT and other risks that the the Annual Report and Accounts, that the next regular KPMG partner business faces together with the controls taken as a whole, are fair, balanced rotation is after the 2019 audit.
through which we manage those risks.
We appreciated the open discussions.
Looking forward In preparing the Groups financial The Committee has an agreed programme Our detailed programme of work has statements, the two areas determined for 2017. focused on the following areas which to be of most significance are the the Committee report itself covers in valuation of assets including impairment, Key focus areas include monitoring the more detail.
Further details continuing roll out of accesso of our reviews in these areas are set out, as well Committee membership on page 79. as to monitor the control environment, and effectiveness particularly in new attractions opened Committee meetings are scheduled ahead We also considered how the Group in line with the Groups 2020 milestones.
of Board meetings and a summary is given assesses its longer term solvency and liquidity as set out in the Viability to the Board at the following meeting.
Recognising the impact of the new leasing Statement on page 49, agreeing the The Committees terms of reference accounting standard IFRS 16, we will stress testing parameters of the Groups are available on the Companys website.
review managements work on capturing principal risks and the period over the detail required for both transition which the assessment should be made.
I was pleased to welcome Trudy Rautio accounting and the related financial and Rachel Chiang as new members of statement disclosures.
Internal and external audit the Audit Committee during the year.
The Groups control framework We have a Committee with deep financial I would like to thank the Committee includes independent and effective and international business experience members for their diligence and support auditors.
The Committee has therefore particularly in customer facing and throughout the year.
spent time during the year assessing the consumer businesses.
The external internal and external audit functions, Board Effectiveness review confirmed finding both to be effective.
that the Committee is effective.
Ken Hydon Chairman of the Audit Committee The risk based internal audit plan has Risk management and internal control 1 March 2017 provided appropriate coverage of the The Committee is satisfied that the Groups operations and we are satisfied Company has appropriate systems and with the content and quality of both procedures in place to identify, evaluate reporting and management responses.
and manage material risks to the business.
76 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT Committee Report The role of the Audit Committee Internal and external audit To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal 2016 focus audit function, and its material findings, An external effectiveness review was in the context of the Companys undertaken showing the Committee overall risk management and internal to be effective.
To propose and select the external auditors and then to oversee their The Audit Committees primary performance and independence.
responsibilities are as set out below, forming the basis of a programme of work Membership and meetings that is agreed at the end of the prior year Details of the Committees membership: qualifications: and meetings are outlined and undertaken during the following year.
on pages 66 to 69, including details of In performing their work, the Committee those members having recent and is kept abreast of any changes in relevant financial experience.
The CFO governance, legislation or guidance.
and other key members of management routinely attend, as do other members Risk management and internal control of senior management depending on the To review and report on the matter under discussion.
The Chairman effectiveness of the Companys internal and the CEO attended most meetings.
financial controls and the overall risk Private meetings are routinely held with management system.
The Committee To review the Companys also meets privately after each arrangements for its employees Committee meeting.
to raise concerns through its whistleblowing and fraud policies.
Effectiveness review During the year an external effectiveness Financial Reporting review of the Committee took place.
To monitor the integrity of This was based on a questionnaire sent the financial statements of the to Committee members, all other Company and report to the Board attendees and the Board on a broad on significant financial reporting range of matters including the issues and judgements.
Committees scope: organisation and To consider whether the Companys meetings: quality of debate and challenge: financial statements are fair, balanced and leadership.
The results showed the and understandable.
To consider the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups longer term solvency and liquidity which underlie the Viability Statement.
77 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT Committee Report Risk management and internal control Level 3 Whistleblowing systems and Self-assessment, including quarterly fraud bribery mitigation self-certification by the heads of The Company has a good culture of 2016 focus finance of each of the business units.
encouraging its staff to report incidents of The Committee concluded that poor practice.
This is reinforced through Merlin operates an appropriate Internal audit reviews with the the work of internal audit and local profit process to assess the internal support of specialist experts as protection teams, a summary of whose control environment, and that appropriate.
The annual risk based work is reviewed by the Committee.
controls are in place to mitigate internal audit plan is developed in financial process risk.
conjunction with management, The Committee also receives regular and approved by the Committee.
updates on whistleblowing, including the Internal audit results and management quantity, source and nature of incidents While the Board retains overall responses are then discussed and reported and how matters are resolved.
challenged at each Committee responsibility for the Companys internal During 2016 efforts have continued to meeting.
The Committee reviews controls, the Committee has a delegated increase awareness of the Companys management actions in response responsibility in two specific areas.
whistleblowing procedures, evidenced to significant findings and looks at by the 84% of staff who completed the the root cause of consistent themes 1 Specifically monitoring the annual staff survey confirming they were emerging across the Company, management of financial process risk aware of the whistleblowing policy.
including deep dive assessments where necessary.
In 2016 these related The Risks and Uncertainties section Financial Reporting to the purpose and structure of the on pages 47 to 52 shows how the profit protection function, reviewing Company separates its oversight residual risks identified in the Groups of risk management into three risk 2016 focus business planning process, together components: Health, safety and The financial statements with considering the Groups security: Commercial and strategic: appropriately address amounts treasury strategy.
reported and disclosures together with any significant judgements External audit reviews the control For financial process risk, management and estimates.
remain responsible for establishing and KPMG present their view of Merlins maintaining adequate internal controls The two significant areas for review control environment at the December that are designed to manage, rather were appropriately scrutinised by meeting, following their audit of such than eliminate, such risks.
It is the Committee throughout the processes in the fourth quarter.
addressed using the three levels of reporting cycle.
activity and assurance set out below.
2 Overseeing the overall risk The outcomes of these activities are The Committee considered and management process reviewed by management, the Audit approved the Groups going concern Committee and the Board.
During the year the Committee reviewed the overall risk management Level 1 process in place.
At the end of the Documented delegated authority limits Together with management and year it examined the Companys risk and purchasing and sale price approval the external auditors, the Committee organisation and how this has been levels in place across the Company.
determined that the two financial practically implemented, and the reporting areas of most significance and methodology by which risk matters Level 2 which could give rise to misstatement raised are brought to the attention Frequent and regular review processes of the Groups financial statements are of the Board.
The Groups risk of trading performance together with the valuation of assets and impairment organisation and principal risks detailed capital investment and and revenue recognition.
These items are disclosed on pages 47 to 52. strategic planning processes.
are set out below and were considered by the Committee throughout the audit cycle.
78 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT Committee Report Key focus areas Management's papers considered 1 The valuation of assets As set out in note 3.3 to the financial the performance of Alton Towers and impairment statements, valuations are performed following the accident there in 2015 based on forward looking discounted when considering the expected future Having reviewed the basis of cash flow forecasts and other market earnings of that attraction and the managements calculations and the data so are inherently judgemental Resort Theme Parks Operating findings of the external audit, the in nature.
Managements detailed Group as a whole, as well as Committee is satisfied that no papers to the Committee set out the detailing the results of sensitivity impairment is required and that methodology and judgements adopted analysis performed.
the presentation and disclosures to test the value of assets, and the in the financial statements are disclosures proposed for the appropriate and adequate.
Existing businesses operate in The papers considered the valuation geographically or politically diverse of goodwill at an Operating Group level, areas and in the past the Group has individual brands and specific property, made material acquisitions resulting plant and equipment.
For each item, in significant balances of goodwill value in use and fair values using an and intangible assets.
Additionally the appropriate EBITDA multiple were Group continues to open attractions provided.
We focused especially on in new and, to some degree, unproven how the value in use of assets is locations.
While the Group has calculated, which involves judgements accumulated experience of opening of forecast cash flows, the discount rates used and the calculation of many attractions around the world, an assets terminal value.
the performance of additional attractions, particularly in new markets, can be difficult to predict.
During the year the Committee 2 Revenue recognition accesso received regular updates on the During the year the Company continued progress of the project together with The Committee has considered the roll its roll out of the accesso admissions the identification and subsequent out of the accesso admissions system system across the Group.
The new resolution of issues that arose.
together with existing revenue recording system is being used to transact an systems.
In both areas the Committee increasing proportion of the Groups IFRS 15 considered the internal controls in admissions revenues with the roll out IFRS 15, the new accounting standard place and concluded that they to all major sites targeted by the end on revenue from contracts with remain effective.
of 2017. customers, will become effective from the 2018 accounting period.
Revenue is generated by high volumes The roll out continued under the The Committee has considered the of low value transactions in numerous guidance of a senior steering group, potential impact in the context jurisdictions across the world.
Although chaired by the Groups Chief Information of the Companys business model and Merlins revenue accounting policies Officer, and including the Group CFO the nature of the Companys revenue require limited judgement compared and other members of the Groups transactions and has concluded that to some other sectors, the accuracy senior finance team.
The project roll out IFRS 15 is not expected to materially of financial reporting relies on team includes finance resource that is alter the Groups financial results.
robust internal controls over cash responsible for designing and reconciliations and accurate cut-off implementing appropriate financial at the reporting date in respect of processes and controls.
advanced sales or payments in arrears by trade customers.
79 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT Committee Report Those areas of the Groups When necessary external support is Going concern and viability review financial reporting considered to used in specialist areas.
For example We focused especially on the have required most judgement  PwC appropriateness of the key judgements, or the use of estimates.
provided specialist support to assumptions and estimates underlying The tax position of the Group, in the audit of the Companys IT the Companys plans together with a particular the effective tax rate and strategic roadmap and risks.
review of compliance with key financial the recognition of deferred tax assets.
For the viability assessment The impact of new accounting The Committee approved the internal we considered the outlook period in the standards that are yet to become audit plan before the start of the year context of the Groups business plan, its effective, especially IFRS 15 which included an assessment of the planned capital investment cycles, new as noted above, and IFRS 16, risk approach taken in formulating audit business development plans and potential the new standard on leasing.
Factors such as size and location uncommitted capital projects and Key assumptions in relation to of business, history of audit findings, acquisitions.
We concluded that the four defined benefit pension schemes.
competence and stability of local year outlook period was appropriate.
Technical updates, in particular in management, material changes to relation to the requirements of a business and relevance to the We considered the key risks identified and changes to the Code.
Groups strategy were factored by the Group as set out in the Risks and The Audit Committees report into this assessment.
Uncertainties section on pages 50 to 52 in the context of the Codes and any mitigating controls.
This process requirement for fair, balanced During the year, audits were undertaken enabled the Committee to assess and understandable reporting.
to obtain an appropriate level of coverage whether any material residual risks across the business which we measure remained that could pose a significant Internal and external audit on a rolling two-year basis.
Internal audits threat to the viability of the business conducted over the last two years as a whole.
have been at operations representing 2016 focus coverage of approximately 60% of The risks identified were those related Following an extensive review process, the Groups revenue.
to safety related incidents and the impact the Committee considers that the of acts of terrorism or sabotage.
The internal and external audit functions In addition to the revenue generating Committee then reviewed appropriate were both effective during 2016. locations, internal audits were performed sensitivity analyses in severe yet plausible over other areas including MMM project scenarios that were performed to assess management, procurement, legislative the possible impact of these risks and The internal and external audit functions compliance and IT disaster recovery.
the Groups resilience to them through represent an important part of the third controls and mitigating actions that line of defence in terms of maintaining The coverage is in line with the plan could be taken.
an effective internal control environment approved by the Committee.
within the Company through the activities The Viability Statement is on page 49. set out below.
The Committee oversees An external review of the effectiveness both functions to ensure they are of internal audit was undertaken during Other matters independent and effective.
Members and attendees of the The Committee also reviewed other Audit Committee meetings, along with matters in relation to the Companys Internal audit the senior finance community of the financial statements.
In doing so they The Companys internal audit function, Company, were questioned on a range took into account recent developments which has dual reporting lines into both of subjects including the governance and in corporate reporting and particular the Chairman of the Audit Committee organisation of the internal audit function, current focus areas.
Matters and the CFO, comprises six in-house their audit approach and the effectiveness reviewed included: auditors and is led by an appropriately of their reports and conclusions.
The The half year and full year qualified Group Internal Audit and survey results showed that the internal financial statements.
Risk Management Director with the audit function is considered professional Disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts in relation to internal relevant skills and experience to fulfil and diligent and that its internal audits control, risk management process the obligations of the role.
and the work of the Committee.
The Groups use and description of alternative performance measures within its financial reporting.
80 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIT Committee Report The principle followed is that the auditors Assessment of the performance External audit may not provide a service which: of the external auditors The Companys external auditors are Places them in a position to audit Following consideration of the FRCs KPMG LLP.
As set out in more detail their own work.
Practice Aid on Audit Quality, the below, the Committee has considered Impacts their independence by Committee has evaluated the their appointment, governance, fees creating a shared interest.
performance, independence and and independence, together with the Results in the auditors developing objectivity of KPMG.
close personal relationships with an externally facilitated, questionnaire Merlin employees.
based, effectiveness assessment as Appointment and governance Results in the auditors functioning well as interviews with Audit Committee In recommending the reappointment as a manager or employee of Merlin.
members and other attendees, and of external auditors at the AGM, the Puts the auditors in the role of senior finance personnel both at Committee has taken into account EU advocate for Merlin.
Merlins attractions and at its head guidance and the Competition and office.
The survey covered KPMGs Markets CMA Authority Order on The Committee granted the CFO mindset and culture, skills and mandatory audit tendering.
Merlin will authority to approve the following knowledge, judgement and be required to retender its audit no non-audit services: quality control of the audit.
later than for the 2023 financial year.
Work which a third party requires The Committee will bear in mind the to be carried out by the The survey indicated widespread next regular KPMG partner rotation Companys auditors.
satisfaction with the quality of the after the 2019 audit.
Any other work up to a value of KPMG audit and the Committee 50,000 where the external auditors accepted KPMGs responses to The Committee has considered are best placed to undertake the work.
points raised in the survey.
whether a retender during 2017 would be appropriate as part of its The Committee regularly reviews and, The effectiveness of KPMGs 2016 audit annual recommendation on the where necessary, challenges management was assessed over the year by reference appointment of the external auditors.
to ensure that auditor objectivity and to the following factors: The Committee decided to recommend independence is not impaired.
We The performance of Hugh Green retaining KPMG for 2017. review reports on audit, audit-related in his second year as Audit Partner, and non-audit expenditure, together including his understanding of our Remuneration and independence with proposals of any material business and the impact on the of external auditors non-audit related assignments.
Non-audit services are subject to market The robustness and perceptiveness tenders or tests and are awarded to the The Committee has adopted the of KPMGs handling of key accounting most appropriate provider.
The external guidance and related definitions from and audit judgements.
auditors may provide non-audit services the Department for Business, Energy and The quality of communication with only when their skills and experience Industrial Strategy and determined that the Committee, including the regular make them a competitive and most non-audit fees should be no higher than reports on accounting and appropriate supplier of these services.
We will continue governance matters.
Non-audit services that are awarded to monitor this ratio.
In 2016 fees for The skills and experience of the to the auditors are normally limited to non-audit services were 0.7 million wider audit team and their execution assignments that are closely related to the 2015: 0.8 million : a ratio of 48% of the audit, including the way they annual audit or where the work requires 2015: 58%.
Details of KPMG fees handled the key accounting and audit a detailed understanding of the Group.
can be found in note 2.1 to the judgements and communication of financial statements.
the same with management and The new Ethical Standard for the audit the Committee.
profession issued by the FRC required The Committee is satisfied that the The quality of the formal report KPMG to review their non-audit services overall levels of audit-related and to shareholders.
and resign from their tax appointments.
non-audit fees, and the nature of Their reputation and standing, including The Committee was satisfied with the way KPMG approached this exercise services provided, are not such that their independence and objectivity, and has updated its Terms of Reference would compromise the objectivity and their internal quality procedures, on appointing the auditors for non-audit independence of the external auditors.
and reports published by the FRC.
