AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS Vernon W. Hill, II Craig Donaldson Michael Brierley Alastair Ben Gunn Stuart Bernau Chairman and Founder3 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive, Director4 Director1 4 Vernon was the founder Craig was previously Mike was previously Ben was Chief Executive Stuart has specialised and Chairman of Managing Director, Retail Director, Business Risk, at and, more recently, in financial services for Commerce Bancorp, a Products and Direct Barclaycard.
He has also Chairman of Friends over 40 years, including start-up bank established in Channels, of RBS UK.
He worked at Capital One Bank Provident Life and Pensions 13 years as a main Board 1973 and sold to Torontowas also Chairman of the Europe as Chief Financial Ltd and a Director of Director of Nationwide Dominion Bank in 2007 Retail Asset and Liabilities Officer UK & Europe and Friends Provident.
He was for US$8.5 billion, with Committee and Retail Chief Risk Officer.
He was Chief Executive, he was Chairman and CEO of US$50 billion in assets and Product Board and a Chief Financial Officer responsible for all aspects Chelsea Building Society 440 branches.
Vernon member of the Retail Board, for Royal Trust Bank, of the Friends Provident and has chaired the Council is involved in banking Retail Risk Committee and Financial Controller at Groups life and pensions of Mortgage Lenders and and non-banking related RBS UK Asset & Liabilities Industrial Bank of Japan activities worldwide.
the Financial Services businesses and voluntary Committee.
He is a and Chief Financial Officer More latterly, he was Sector Skills Council.
He member of the Banking of Gentra Limited.
He is a the Senior Independent was Special Adviser to the is currently Chairman of Standards Board and also Fellow of the Institute of Director at Aviva UK and Treasury Select Committee Republic First Bancorp, inc. serves on the Board of Chartered Accountants.
Chairman of the Audit from 2013 to 2015.
Directors at TheCityUK Committee at Avelo.
as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Committee membership 1 Member of the Audit Committee.
2 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
3 Member of the Nomination Committee.
4 Member of the Risk Oversight Committee.
