ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Composition of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises the following four Non-Executive Directors: Number of meetings Members attended 3 3 Howard Flight Chairman 3 3 Vernon W. Hill, II 3 3 Keith Carby 3 3 Roger Farah Chairmans statement It is with great pleasure that I present the Nomination Committee Craig Donaldson CEO attends meetings by invitation and Report for 2016.
This is the first report since our Listing on the the Chief People Officer, Danielle Harmer, acts as the London Stock Exchange in March 2016.
The Board first met in its current form in March 2010 before the Following each meeting the Chairman provided a verbal Bank opened its doors to the public.
Several Non-Executive update to the Board.
The Committee minutes are also Directors have served on the Board for a number of years.
During included in future Board papers.
this time the role of the Board has changed significantly, as the Group has evolved from a start-up to Listing on the London Stock Exchange on 10 March 2016.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE During the year the Committee analysed the Board structure, paying particular attention to succession planning and diversity.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for identifying and We appreciate the need for a talent pipeline coming through making nomination recommendations to the Board.
The duties of below Board level and to dig deeper into the Company for future the Committee include: leaders.
regularly reviewing structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, and Board composition making recommendations to the Board as required: The Chairman, together with the Chairman of the Nomination considering succession planning for Directors and other senior Committee, regularly review the composition of the Board to executives, taking into account the challenges and ensure there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience, opportunities facing the Group, and the skills and expertise independence and knowledge of the Group.
Board succession needed on the Board in the future: planning has been at the forefront of the Nomination Committees responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the approval of considerations in 2016 and the Committee plans to take the the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they necessary steps to ensure a smooth and orderly Board arise: succession.
considering Board candidates on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, taking In light of the increasing demands on the Audit Committee and care that appointees have time available to devote to the the increasing complexity of the Group, Michael Snyder was position: and invited to join the Committee in 2016. reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process relating to the Board composition.
Diversity The Committee recognises the merit of diversity and this ACTIVITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE continues to remain a high priority for the Board, particularly as DURING THE YEAR the Group evolves.
It is the intention of the Committee to source an inclusive shortlist when seeking new Non-Executive Directors.
Matters considered by the Committee include the following: Reviewing the composition and diversity of Board membership Terms of Reference Considering Board tenure and succession, and the process of Across the year the Committee has reviewed and revised its Terms making new appointments of Reference in accordance with the Listing on the London Stock Considering and approving an updated Terms of Reference for Exchange in March 2016.
The Nomination Committees Terms of the Nomination Committee Reference are available on the Banks website.
Howard Flight Chairman, Nomination Committee 2 March 2017 49 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
