ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT Composition of the Risk Oversight Committee The Risk Oversight Committee currently comprises the following four independent Non-Executive Directors: Number of meetings Members attended 7 7 Gene Lockhart Chairman 7 7 Stuart Bernau 6 7 Ben Gunn 4 7 Sir Michael Snyder Chairmans statement I am pleased to present this report of the Risk Oversight Committee ROC.
All four held office throughout 2016.
All other NonExecutive Directors may attend ROC meetings.
The CFO, The ROC continues to focus on overseeing risk and advising CRO and CEO have standing invitations to attend as guests, the Board, as appropriate, on the risk arising to Metro Bank unless the Chairman of the Committee asks them to excuse from its continuing business activities and future risk strategy.
themselves from a particular meeting or discussion.
There has been considerable change in 2016 for Metro Bank, Other Directors and Metro Bank colleagues attend as guests including substantial growth in the Banks balance sheet, the by invitation of the Chairman to present and report on size of its workforce and number of stores.
During the year, the topics relevant to the Bank.
Bank has reviewed its operational risk management framework: a number of enhancements will be made in 2017 to reflect The ROCs Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and emerging regulatory changes and ensure it is appropriate for are available on the Banks website.
Metro Banks current size while taking into account future growth.
During the year, the ROC reviewed a range of policies, documents and transactions, and discharged other advisory and oversight ROLE OF THE RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE responsibilities.
I provide a verbal update to the Board and the The ROC is a sub-Committee of the Board.
Its specific Risk Oversight Committee minutes are included in the next responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference.
Accountable to the Board, the ROC provides leadership, In 2017, the risk activities of the ROC and the Bank will continue to oversight, and direction regarding the Banks risk governance grow.
High on the agenda is Metro Banks ongoing development and management.
The ROC is charged with assisting the of a credit risk rating model, which will be used in its application Board in creating an appropriate culture across the Bank, to use the Advanced Internal Ratings-Based approach to which emphasises and demonstrates the benefits of a riskcalculating credit risk capital requirements.
This will enable the based approach to risk management and internal controls.
It is Bank to continue to grow its business in a risk-sensitive way to responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to the 2020 and beyond.
Board the Banks risk appetite, ICAAP, ILAAP and risk policies.
The Committee oversees the Banks risk management procedures and The following sections explain the role and activities of the ROC, reviews risk reports on key business areas.
Additionally, it advises and how it has discharged these responsibilities, as well as setting the Audit Committee on reviews of effectiveness of the Banks out several key areas of activity during 2016. risk controls, and advises the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on risk weightings to be applied to the remuneration Gene Lockhart calculations for the Executive Leadership Team.
Chairman, Risk Oversight Committee 2 March 2017 The ROC receives regular Management Information MI and reports concerning the Banks performance against risk appetite and the measures set by it and by the Board.
It receives regular updates on regulatory developments, and considers how these will affect the Banks plans, processes, systems and controls.
47 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The ROC reviews and formally notes the minutes of the At each scheduled meeting the ROC considered the following Executive Risk Committee ERC and the Asset and Liability standing items: Committee ALCO.
CROs overview An executive summary from the CRO setting out items of note As a key part of Metro Banks governance framework, the ROC and assessing the Banks performance against its risk metrics.
ensures that the CRO has unfettered access to it and its Chairman.
Credit risk analytics and underwriting Execution of Metro Banks strategy requires prudent and controlled management of credit risk.
In this regard, the ROC MEETINGS has a role to oversee credit underwriting and ensure that the The ROC meets at least quarterly.
It met seven times in 2016: in Bank has effective processes and controls to monitor and manage credit risk, including where the risk position associated February, March, May, July, October and November twice.
Additional meetings may be convened by the Chairman of the with a particular customer or loan has deteriorated.
It ensures that lending remains within risk appetite and monitors policy Committee, the CRO or any two Committee members.
Operational risk KEY ITEMS CONSIDERED BY THE ROC DURING 2016 The ROC receives regular reports concerning risk and control self-assessments, information security, business continuity Over the course of 2016, the ROC received items of business management and incidents.
While a number of incidents including the following: N A R were raised during 2016, it is the view of the ROC that the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment management of these incidents and the actions taken in Process document ILAAP incorporating response was proportionate and appropriate to the size and Treasury policy and Contingency scale of the incidents.
It also notes that post-incident reviews Funding plan were held for high-severity incidents to capture learnings and ways to prevent or mitigate any potential recurrences.
ROC Credit Risk policy has taken particular interest in cyber risk in 2016 owing to the Enterprise Risk policy increased prevalence of attempted attacks against financial services and other firms.
Commercial Lending policy Compliance and conduct risk Minimum Requirement on Own Funds In a constantly-changing regulatory environment, the ROC is and Eligible Liabilities MREL updated regularly on developments and regulatory changes that could impact the Bank.
It receives updates on compliance Recruitment policy and conduct risk under the pillars of culture and governance, Responsible Lending policy product governance, customer treatment, and voice of the customer.
The ROC is also updated on the Banks management Arrears Management policy of expressions of dissatisfaction, and on the ongoing Outsourcing policy compliance assurance work performed by the second line.
 and Counter Terrorism Financing Compliance policy AML CTF Residential Mortgage Lending policy The ROC receives a regular AML CTF report which includes management information on compliance with customer Money-Laundering Reporting Officer identification and verification requirements for all new MLRO Annual Report accounts.
Additional reporting incorporates payments and  Counter Terrorism customer screening and updates on items of note from the Financing policy Financial Crime Steering Group.
Sanctions policy Treasury While the primary venue for in-depth discussions on Treasury Credit Risk Model framework is ALCO, the Treasurers commentary is tabled at each ROC Credit Risk Model policy meeting.
Treasury policies are reviewed and the CROs report includes high-level MI on liquidity and interest rate risk, and the Credit Risk Model design principles minutes of ALCO are also noted by ROC.
The Chairman of ROC attends ALCO as a standing guest.
N Noted: A Approved: R Recommended to the Metro Bank Board for approval.
Litigation update The ROC notes the report from Metro Banks Legal team on any The Fraud policy is owned by the Audit Committee and was noted to the ROC.
material litigation cases to which the Bank is party.
The ROC receives in-depth reviews on areas of emerging risk or regulatory interest throughout the year.
Topics covered during 2016 included information security, fraud, portfolio concentration risk, collections effectiveness and the performance of the mortgage portfolio acquired in Q3 2015.
