ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Biographical details for all Directors, which include a summary of their particular experience, skills and qualifications, are set out on pages 32 and 33 of this Report.
Senior management are regularly invited to attend Board and Committee meetings to present and this provides further opportunities for communication, challenge and support between the Board and management.
I am pleased to report that during the period under review the Company has fully complied with the Code.
Vernon W. Hill, II Chairman 2 March 2017 An introduction from our Chairman LEADERSHIP A strong governance framework supporting the long-term success of the Company The role of the Board In this section of our inaugural Annual Report as a listed company The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders and sets we have set out our approach to corporate governance and the Banks strategy for achieving long-term success.
It is also provide further information on how the Board and its Committees ultimately responsible for the management, governance, controls, operate.
risk management, direction and performance of the Bank.
Metro Banks ordinary shares were admitted to trading on the The composition of the Board Main Market of London Stock Exchange on 10 March 2016, and, as The Board currently consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, two a company with a premium listing, we are required to comply with Executive Directors the CEO and CFO and seven Non-Executive the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Directors.
The Company considers the Non-Executive Directors Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 the Code or to to be independent.
This is compliant with the Code, which explain any areas of non-compliance and our reasons for these.
requires that at least half of the Directors of a premium listed company should be independent and free of any business We have also taken into account the updated UK Governance relationships that could compromise the exercise of independent Code published by the FRC in April 2016 and the changes relating and objective judgement.
We believe we already comply with these changes and will report on them fully in next years Annual Each Director has committed to dedicate as much time as is Report.
Prior to Listing, we were already required to operate necessary to the Company and the Non-Executive Directors under the strong regulatory framework applicable to the letters of appointment set out that they should be prepared to financial services sector in the UK and this had fostered a strong dedicate at least 20 days per year to the Company.
compliance culture throughout our team of highly-motivated and engaged colleagues.
At Listing we had already taken sufficient Division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief steps to confirm that we were fully compliant with the Code and Executive Officer we continue to review and strengthen our governance framework The Board has formally documented the separate roles to ensure that it continues to support the long-term success of and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Vernon W. Hill, II, the Chairman, leads the Board and is responsible for its effectiveness and governance.
He sets As a Board, we support management and help develop strategy the tone for the Company and ensures the links between through effective debate and challenge.
I set the Boards agenda the Board and management and between the Board and and ensure that we devote sufficient time to our strategic vision.
He sets the Board agenda and The Board has an open culture which encourages challenge, ensures that sufficient time is allocated to important matters, and we have the appropriate mix of skills and experience to in particular those relating to our strategic direction.
All Non-Executive Directors are independent and, by encouraging open and frank discussion, we ensure that no Craig Donaldson, the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible individual Director or group of Directors can dominate discussion for the day-to-day management of the Banks operations, for or decision-making.
The Board members experience is across a recommending the Banks strategic direction to the Board and for wide range of sectors, including finance, banking and retail, and implementing the strategic direction agreed by the Board.
He is each brings a wealth of experience and skills to bear on all aspects supported in decision-making by the Executive Leadership Team.
of the management of the Company.
A summary of the key areas of responsibility of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is set out opposite: 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ROLE OF CHAIRMAN ROLE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE The Chairman reports to the Board and is responsible for the The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Chairman and to the Board leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board and the setting directly and is responsible for all executive management matters of the of the Boards agenda.
His responsibilities are: To run the Board effectively by ensuring meetings are scheduled well To develop and propose the strategy direction of the Bank, annual in advance and with appropriate frequency, and to ensure that the budget and business plans and commercial objectives to the Board.
Board agenda is forward-looking and reflects the important issues To examine all major business investments and major capital facing the Bank.
expenditure and make recommendations to the Board and to identify To ensure the frequency and depth of evaluation of the performance and execute acquisitions and disposals subject to formal Board approval.
of the Board and its Committees is in compliance with best practice To ensure that the development needs of the Executive Directors and and appropriate action, if required, is taken on the results of any such senior management are identified and met.
evaluation and to confirm that an individuals performance continues to be effective.
To advise and make recommendations in respect of management succession planning for the Executive Directors and ensure that the To ensure, with the support of the Nomination Committee, an Bank develops strategies and makes plans for the succession and appropriate balance is maintained on the Board as regards the number replacement of key personnel.
To make recommendations on of Executive and Non-Executive Directors with the skills, experience Remuneration policy, executive remuneration and terms of and expertise to provide effective guidance, challenge and oversight to employment for the Executive Leadership Team.
the Board and the Executive Leadership Team.
To lead the Executive Leadership Team in the day-to-day management To ensure there is appropriate delegation of authority from the Board of the Group to pursue the successful achievement of the Banks to the Executive Leadership Team.
commercial objectives and execution of strategy and to ensure that To promote a Board culture with an open exchange of views, Board decisions are implemented effectively.
challenge and debate, in particular by facilitating the effective To be open, honest and transparent and willing to engage in contribution of Non-Executive Directors: and ensuring constructive constructive challenge and debate with the Non-Executive Directors.
relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors that provides a genuine check and balance on the Executive Directors and holds To ensure, with the support of the Company Secretary, that the them accountable.
Executive Directors comply with the terms on which matters are delegated by the Board and the Terms of Reference of Board To ensure, with the support of the Company Secretary, compliance Committees and to ensure matters outside the authority of the with Board-approved procedures, such as the Terms of Reference for Executive Directors are escalated to the Board.
the Board, including its Committees, incorporating the matters reserved to the Board and the Terms of Reference of each of the Board To ensure the Chairman is alerted to potential contentious or sensitive Committees, and to ensure that they are reviewed by the Board at least issues affecting the Bank.
To manage the Banks risk profile, with the support of the Chief Risk To maintain a dialogue with the Chief Executive Officer and to provide Officer, in line with the risk appetite approved by the Board and to support and advice from time to time on the implementation of the ensure that appropriate internal and prudential controls are in place, in business strategy agreed by the Board, as well as important issues particular with regard to capital and liquidity.
To maintain a dialogue with the Chairman and the Board on important To ensure that the Board reviews all key metrics in line with the agreed and strategic issues facing the Bank.
business plan and ensure that stressed scenarios are always in place to To be the primary relationship with institutional shareholders and ensure support prudent capital planning, liquidity, solvency, recovery and effective communication with all shareholders and that appropriate, resolution and risk management generally.
timely and accurate information is disclosed to the market, with issues To provide advice, support and leadership to the Chief Executive escalated promptly to the Board where appropriate.
Officer and guidance as appropriate to other key senior management To be the primary contact with the Banks regulators and to foster an across the business.
open and honest relationship with the regulators and compliance with To ensure effective communication by the Bank with its shareholders prudential and conduct requirements.
and engage directly as required on matters of governance, To oversee the development of Bank policies for Board approval and remuneration and strategy with major shareholders.
oversee the implementation of them including policies relating to To ensure that shareholders views are communicated to the Board as insider information, share dealing, whistleblowing, anti-bribery and a whole so that all Directors develop an understanding of their views.
To oversee the development of the Banks business culture and To promote a Bank culture that fosters a prudent, safe and sound standards in relation to the conduct of business and the behaviour business that has long-term sustainability and conducts itself with of employees.
appropriate standards and behaviours, whilst placing customers at the forefront of everything the Bank does.
39 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors financial reporting and controls, risk management and various The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to constructively statutory and regulatory matters.
The Board is also responsible challenge proposals on strategic direction.
Each Non-Executive for the effective communication with shareholders, any changes Director brings specific sector experience and knowledge to to Board or Committee membership or structure, and has the Board and its Committees.
Their contributions provide authority to recommend to shareholders the Banks Directors independent views on matters of strategy, performance, risk and remuneration policy.
The Board delegates responsibility for conduct.
The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive an initial two-year term but are re-elected on an annual basis.
and sets out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board to its Committees.
Senior Independent Director Ben Gunn is the Senior Independent Director SID.
The SIDs Board decisions and activity during the year role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as The Board has a schedule of regular business, financial and an intermediary for Directors when necessary.
operational matters, and each Board Committee has a schedule of reserved matters to ensure that all areas for which the Board The SID is also available to shareholders if they have concerns has responsibility are addressed and reviewed during the course that have not been resolved through the normal channels of of the year.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
The SID will attend meetings with, and listen to the views of, major The Chairman, aided by the Company Secretary, is responsible shareholders to help to develop a balanced understanding of their for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate and timely issues and concerns if contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive information.
The Company Secretary compiles the Board and Officer or Chief Financial Officer is inappropriate.
The SID also Committee papers, which are circulated to Directors in advance acts as the conduit, as required, for the views of other Nonof meetings.
The Company Secretary also ensures that any Executive Directors on the performance of the Chairman and feedback or suggestions for improvement on Board papers is fed conducts the Chairmans annual performance evaluation.
The Company Secretary provides minutes of each meeting and every Director is aware of the right to have any concerns minuted.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES Governance framework In the months following Listing some of the key areas the Board has focused on are: The Board has a coherent corporate governance structure with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to Strategic direction Risk monitoring and review safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust framework in which to deliver the Companys strategy.
Governance and compliance Annual and quarterly reporting Matters reserved for the Board Policy review and update Property and store expansion The Board is responsible for the Companys strategic direction and for its overall management.
The operation of the Board is Investment proposals Regulatory and external affairs documented in a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, which is reviewed annually.
These include matters Creating FANs relating to the decisions concerning the Banks strategic aims and long-term objectives, the structure and capital of the Group, Corporate governance structure Chief Metro Bank Board Executive Officer Remuneration Nomination Audit Risk Oversight Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Management Committees Board and Board sub-Committee.
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Management Committees.
40 AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC Reports from the CEO, CFO and CRO are standing items on every All Directors have been advised of the time required to fulfil the agenda.
The Company Secretary reports on legal, regulatory role prior to appointment and confirmed they can make the and governance matters and updates the Board on any changes required commitment.
This requirement is also included in their to their statutory duties or the regulatory environment.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman Chairman of each Committee reports on the proceedings of and each of the Non-Executive Directors is able to devote the previous Committee meeting at the next Board meeting.
sufficient time to the Companys business.
There has been no change in the Chairmans other time commitments since Listing.
Senior management and advisers are invited to attend Board and Committee meetings, where appropriate, to present, contribute Performance to discussion and advise members of the Board or its Committees The Board will undertake an evaluation of its performance and on particular matters.
The involvement of senior management at that of its Committees and individual Directors annually, with Board and Committee discussions strengthens the relationship an evaluation process being externally facilitated at least every between the Board and senior management and helps to provide three years.
The first such external evaluation was carried out the Board with a greater understanding of operations and in 2014, facilitated by Deloitte.
A number of recommendations strategic direction.
for improvements were agreed by the Board.
Overall, it was concluded that the Board operated effectively.
The next externally Board Committees facilitated evaluation will take place in 2017.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to each of the Audit, Risk Oversight, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and reports for each are set out on pages 43 to 51.
Each Committee has written Terms of Reference setting out its duties, authority and reporting responsibilities.
Copies of all the Committee Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
The Terms of Reference of each Committee were reviewed at Listing and are kept under continuous review to ensure they Boardmeetings remain appropriate and reflect any changes in legislation, The Board met ten times in 2016. regulation or best-practice as well as being reviewed formally on an annual basis by the relevant Committee and the Board.
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, Each Committee is comprised of Non-Executive Directors and the Committees on which they sit, and to devote of the Company.
Any future changes to the Committees sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to will be made after the review and recommendation of the fulfil their duties as Directors.
In the event that Directors are Nomination Committee.
unable to attend a meeting, their comments on papers to be considered at the meeting will be discussed in advance Effectiveness with the Chairman or Company Secretary so that their The skills and experience of the Board are set out in their contribution can be included in the wider Board discussion.
biographical details on pages 32 and 33.
The experience and knowledge of each of the Directors gives them the ability to The following table shows Directors attendance at Board constructively challenge strategy and to scrutinise performance.
meetings in 2016: Induction of new Directors Numbers All the Directors have been members of the Board since the of meetings attended Companys Listing in March 2016.
It is intended that, in the future, on joining the Board, new Directors will undergo a formal 10 10 Vernon W. Hill, II programme, tailored to the existing knowledge and experience of 10 10 Craig Donaldson the Director concerned.
Non-Executive Directors will meet the 10 10 Michael Brierley Chairman and the Chief Executive as part of the Nomination Committees selection process and then again on appointment 9 10 Ben Gunn for a thorough briefing on all relevant aspects of the Company.
10 10 Stuart Bernau They will also meet the Company Secretary, senior management 8 10 and any relevant advisers for briefings on their responsibilities as Gene Lockhart Directors and on the Companys business, finances, risks, strategy, 9 10 Lord Flight procedures and the markets in which the Company operates.
10 10 Keith Carby 10 10 Roger Farah 8 10 Sir Michael Snyder 41 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Development Independent professional advice The Company Secretary ensures that all Directors are kept Directors have access to independent professional advice at the abreast of changes in relevant legislation and regulations, with the Companys expense.
In addition, they have access to the advice assistance of the Companys external advisers where appropriate.
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for advice on corporate governance matters to the Board.
Executive Directors take part in Metro Banks appraisal procedure where tangible targets are set against which performance is Directors indemnities and insurance measured.
The Bank provides its Directors and Officers with the benefit of appropriate insurance, which is reviewed annually.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and Directors and Officers have received an indemnity from the Bank briefings, at the Companys expense, in areas considered to be against a any liability incurred by or attaching to the Director appropriate for their own professional development, including or Officer in connection with any negligence, default, breach of governance and issues relevant to the Committees on which duty, or breach of trust by them in relation to the Bank or any they sit.
associated company: and b any other liability incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in the actual or purported During 2016, the Directors received in-house training on the execution and or discharge of their duties and or the exercise or following areas: purported exercise of their powers and or otherwise in relation UK listing regime to or in connection with their duties, powers or office other than Regulatory developments in UK Corporate Governance certain excluded liabilities including to the extent that such an Insider trading and implications under the new Market Abuse indemnity is not permitted by law.
Regulations Anti-bribery, corruption and money-laundering Election of Directors Open banking and PSD2 In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all continuing Directors of the Company will offer themselves for annual Risk management re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes that effective risk management is crucial to the Banks strategic objectives and long-term success.
The Board Relations with shareholders has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is effectively managed.
The Board recognises and values the importance of regularly engaging with its shareholders throughout the year.
Investor The Banks approach to risk is further detailed on pages 24 to 27. meetings are undertaken by the founder and Chairman, The Risk Oversight Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Vernon W. Hill, II, the CEO, Craig Donaldson, and the CFO, risk management process on the Boards behalf, and its approach Mike Brierley, supported by the Director of Investor Relations.
to this can be found in the Risk Oversight Committee Report on During 2016, the team participated in over 150 individual pages 47 and 48. and group meetings in the US, UK and Europe, as well as presenting at investor conferences.
Institutional shareholders External appointments have the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or other In appropriate circumstances, the Board may authorise Executive Non-Executive Directors to discuss any areas of concern.
Directors to take non-executive positions in other companies and organisations, provided the time commitment does not A newly-established Investor Relations function reports to the conflict with the Directors duties to the Company, since such Board on a monthly basis on the share price performance, appointments should broaden their experience.
The appointment changes in the shareholder register, significant market updates, to such positions is subject to the prior approval of the Board.
with the assistance of the Banks corporate brokers, analyst and investor feedback.
The Investor Relations team is responsible During the year ended 31 December 2016, none of the Banks for ongoing communication with shareholders, analysts and Executive Directors held directorships in any other quoted investors.
All financial and regulatory announcements, as well as company.
other important business announcements, are published in the Investors section of the Companys website and stakeholders Conflicts of interest can subscribe to receive news updates by email by registering At each meeting the Board considers Directors conflicts of online on the website: https: www.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for the investor-relations.
Contact details for the Investor Relations Board to authorise any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
and Company Secretariat are available for any shareholders, analysts or investors who wish to ask a question.
The Company has a commercial relationship with InterArch, Inc. InterArch, a firm which is owned by Shirley Hill, the wife of Vernon W. Hill, II.
The Audit Committee has considered this relationship and concluded that the arrangements with InterArch are on terms which are at least as beneficial to the Bank as those which could be obtained from an independent third party.
Further details are set out in note 27 to the financial statements.
