ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I meet at least once a month with the Director of Internal Audit and regularly with her team.
I sit on the Risk Oversight Committee and work closely with Gene Lockhart, Chairman of the Committee.
I also meet monthly with the Chief Risk Officer to discuss issues in her Board report.
I have regular meetings with the Group Finance Director and members of his team to discuss the financial statements.
The Audit Committee met nine times in 2016 and, following each meeting, I provided a verbal update to the Board on key issues and, where necessary, outlined the actions being taken by management to address any issues raised.
The minutes are also included in the next Board pack.
I also meet with the external Chairmans statement audit partner before each Audit Committee meeting and the I am pleased to present the first Audit Committee report following Committee members have a session with the external Auditors at the Listing for the year ended 31 December 2016. the end of each meeting without the presence of management.
The four members of the Audit Committee are all independent Stuart Bernau Non-Executive Directors and bring a range of relevant business Chairman of Audit Committee experience.
In March 2016 we welcomed Sir Michael Snyder, a 2 March 2017 qualified Chartered Accountant, to the Audit Committee: he has extensive financial and audit experience.
Metro Bank has continued to pursue its growth model and, Composition of the Audit Committee together with its successful listing in 2016, this has resulted in an increase in work and focus for the Audit Committee over the The Audit Committee currently comprises the following last year.
We spent a significant amount of time in early 2016 four independent Non-Executive Directors: reviewing and considering the reports required for the Listing, Number of and where necessary providing comfort or recommendations meetings to the Board for their approval.
In addition, the Committee Members attended reviewed and recommended quarterly, half yearly and annual 9 9 Stuart Bernau Chairman financial statements and shareholder announcements for approval by the Board.
7 9 Gene Lockhart 9 9 Keith Carby This is in addition to monitoring the 2016 Internal Audit Plan.
4 6 Sir Michael Snyder appointed 22 March 2016 In developing the Internal Audit Plan for 2017, we have ensured inclusion of those areas most impacted by continued growth.
We have also supported the expansion of the Internal Audit team Regular attendees at the Audit Committee include to meet the increased workload.
the CEO, CFO, CRO, Director of Internal Audit, Deputy Company Secretary and representatives from the external The 2017 Internal Audit Plan was approved by the Board in Auditors, PwC.
January 2017 following discussion at the Committee, and they also approved the level of risk assurance contained within the Plan.
I am therefore comfortable that the key risks to Metro Banks unique business model have been identified ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE and are being monitored.
The Audit Committees key role is to review the integrity During the year, the Audit Committee commissioned a of the financial reporting for the Bank and to oversee the comprehensive external review by Independent Audit Limited of effectiveness of the internal control systems and the work the Internal Audit function and I am pleased to confirm that the of the internal and external Auditors.
report identified no major nor significant issues.
The Committee is pleased to confirm that Internal Audit is operating effectively.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Banks website.
43 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Financial and Whistleblowing Internal controls and risk External Audit Internal Audit narrative reporting and fraud management Recommend the Approve appointment Monitor the integrity of Review the adequacy Monitor and review the appointment, or termination of the the financial and security of adequacy and reappointment or Director of Internal statements whistleblowing effectiveness of the removal Audit arrangements Companys internal Review and report to financial controls and Oversee the Monitor and review the the Board on Review the procedures risk management relationship, approve effectiveness of the significant financial for detecting fraud and systems terms of engagement function issues and material preventing bribery and review judgements Review and approve Review and approve independence and the statements in the the Internal Audit Review and challenge objectivity Annual Report Charter accounting policies, concerning internal Approve remuneration methods used to Review and assess the controls and risk and review the supply account for significant Internal Audit plan and management of non-audit services and unusual ensure that resources in line with policy transactions, clarity are adequate and completeness of Meet regularly without Meet regularly with disclosure management present Director of Internal Advise whether the Ensure audit contract Audit and ensure Annual Report is fair, is tendered at least access to Board balanced and every ten years Review managements understandable responsiveness to findings KEY AREAS DISCUSSED AT AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS SINCE 1 JANUARY 2016 Month Key topics Jan 2016 Financial Position and Prospects Procedures report, Working Capital report and Long Form report Key judgement areas for the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, including a report from the external Auditors Feb 2016 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, including an the assessment of going concern basis and related party transactions two Review of Conflicts of Interest policy meetings External audit control observations, including management responses Review of 2015 internal audits Apr 2016 Review of Q1 results Review of Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy and Whistle-Blowing policy June 2016 Review and approval of Internal Audit Charter AIRB and IFRS 9 considerations changes to accounting standards July 2016 2016 Half-year results, including an update of critical accounting judgements and estimates and external auditors review External audit terms of engagement Sept 2016 2016 External Audit plan Non-audit services policy Oct 2016 Review of Q3 results Nov 2016 2017 Internal Audit plan and resourcing External review of Internal Audit function Review of related party transactions Approval of External Audit fee Update on year-end reporting Feb 2017 2016 full year results, Annual Report and Accounts, including assessment of the key judgements, going concern and viability reporting Internal audit External Quality Assessment External Auditors reports 44 AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC In addition to the key areas opposite, the Audit Committee Related parties reviewed the progress against the Internal Audit plan and reviewed Architecture design and branding services are provided the detailed reports where appropriate.
to the Bank by InterArch Inc, a firm owned by Shirley Hill, wife of Vernon W. Hill, II, Non-Executive Chairman.
ACTIVITIES IN 2016 In order to ensure that the Terms of Reference of the InterArch arrangements are consistent with those that could be obtained Significant issues and areas of judgement considered by the Committee from an independent third party, the contractual arrangements are subject to periodic review by the Audit Committee, using In respect of financial reporting, the Audit Committee considered a number of significant issues and areas of judgement in relation benchmarking reviews conducted by independent third parties.
to the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Audit Committee discussed the benchmarking reviews Key issues judgements Audit Committee review conducted by independent third parties and concluded that the in financial reporting and conclusions arrangements with InterArch are on terms which are at least as Impairment of loans and The key assumptions used in beneficial to Metro Bank as those which could be obtained from advances the model are probability of an alternative supplier.
Determining the appropriateness default, the probability of this of loan loss provision is inherently default resulting in possession Fair, balanced and understandable judgemental and requires and or write-off, and the In line with the Code, the Audit Committee considered whether management to make a number subsequent loss incurred.
the 2016 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and of assumptions.
The Committee received and should provide the information necessary for shareholders to Individual impairment losses on challenged reports from assess the Groups position, performance, business model and secured loans and advances are management explaining the strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that the 2016 Annual Report calculated based on an individual approach taken to provisioning meets this requirement and in particular, that appropriate valuation of the underlying asset.
and the resulting changes in the disclosure has been included for both positive and negative Collective impairment losses on provision levels during the developments in the year.
The process enabling the Committee loans and advances are period.
to reach this conclusion included: calculated using a statistical The Committee is satisfied that the compilation of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was model.
the approach taken and managed by the Chief Financial Officer together with a crossjudgements applied were functional team of senior management: reasonable.
input is provided by a cross-functional team from Finance, Risk, People, Marketing, Investor Relations and business lines: Deferred tax asset The Committee considered the a formal review is undertaken by the Audit Committee of the The recoverability of deferred tax recognition of DTA, in particular draft 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, along with a review of asset DTA requires the seven-year financial plan any issues raised in the External Auditors report, in advance of consideration of the future levels including the timing over which final sign-off: and of taxable profit in the Group.
future taxable profits will be a final review is performed by the Board of Directors.
available for the deferred tax asset to be realised.
Internal Audit The Committee agrees with the The Groups Internal Audit function plays a key role in providing management judgement that independent assessment and challenge of governance, risk sufficient taxable profits will be available to utilise the tax losses and control.
The Audit Committee approved the Audit plan carried forward in full and and considered the results of its work.
In addition, the Audit therefore the entire asset is Committee: considered to be recoverable.
approved the Internal Audit Charter, which sets out the role and expectations of Internal Audit: monitored the adequacy of Internal Audit resources.
The Committee was satisfied that Internal Audit had adequate resources available this year: and monitored the delivery of Internal Audits plan.
During the year, the Committee commissioned an External Quality Assessment by Independent Audit Limited on the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Audit Committee agreed that the function was operating effectively.
45 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED System of internal control and risk management Details of the risk management framework are provided on pages 24 to 27.
In considering the effectiveness of internal controls, the Audit Committee received and discussed reports from Internal Audit and the external Auditors.
In addition, executive management were invited to discuss the more significant issues raised by Internal Audit.
Management action plans to resolve the issues raised are monitored by the Audit Committee.
Recommendations for improvements to internal controls by the external auditors are monitored by Internal Audit and progress reported to the Audit Committee.
External audit The Audit Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board with regards to the appointment of external Auditors, their remuneration and terms of engagement.
PwC has been the Groups Auditors since the inception of the Bank in 2009.
The Audit Committee is aware of the rule that the external audit contract should be put out to tender at least every ten years and has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
As a newly-listed company, the Bank has not yet developed an Audit Tendering policy and continues to benefit from the continuity of service provided by PwC during this period of significant change.
The Bank will develop an Audit Tendering policy in 2017 and make further disclosures in this area in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
We will commence the tender process no later than 2019.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the oversight of the relationship with PwC and the effectiveness of the audit process.
During the year, the Audit Committee: reviewed the proposed Audit plan in advance of the annual audit: approved the audit engagement and proposed audit fee: and reviewed and discussed the reports provided by PwC.
At the end of each Audit Committee, the Audit Committee members met the external Auditors without management present, to discuss any relevant issues directly with the Committee.
