Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of directors Executive directors 1 2 3 4 Non-executive directors 5 6 7 8 9 46 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board committee memberships as at 13 July 2016: Manager Worldwide Sales & Marketing for the Business Customer Audit committee Organization, responsible for sales of all Hewlett-Packard products, Remuneration committee services and software to business customers globally.
Karen holds Nomination committee aBA Honours degree in European Studies from Bath University anda Diploma in Marketing.
1 Kevin Loosemore, 57 6 Richard Atkins, 64 Executive Chairman Independent non-executive director Kevin was previously non-executive Chairman of Morse plc, Richard is currently a non-executive director of Aon UK Limited and anon-executive director of Nationwide Building Society and a Chairman of Acora Limited, Entanet International Limited and Miles non-executive director of the Big Food Group plc.
He was previously a non-executive director at Compel recentexecutive roles were as Chief Operating Officer of Cable & plc, Morse plc, Global Crossing UK Telecommunications Ltd, Wireless plc, President of Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa, Global Crossing UK Finance plc and Message Labs Ltd.
He was and before that, he was Chief Executive of IBM UK Limited.
Kevin previously non-executive Chairman of TripleArc plc, Easynet and was appointed non-executive Chairman of the Company in 2005 7city.
He has spent the majority of his career within the IT industry, and Executive Chairman in April 2011.
He has a degree in politics most recently at IBM Global Services, where he held a number of and economics from Oxford University.
Richard qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young.
2 Mike Phillips, 53 Chief Financial Officer 7 Tom Virden, 58 Mike joined Micro Focus on 7 September 2010 and was previously Chief Independent non-executive director Executive Officer at Morse plc, following his initial role as Group Finance Tom is a non-executive director of technology start-ups VillasDirect Director.
Mike left Morse plc in July 2010 following the turnaround and Limited and Sweetbeam.
He began his career at Apple Inc and held successful corporate sale to 2e2 in June 2010.
From 1998 to 2007, Mike a range of leadership roles in market development and product was Group Finance Director at Microgen plc and played a lead role in the marketing, including the leadership of the Companys introduction transformation of the Company to an international software and services to Small Business and the Music industry.
More recently, Tom was business with sustainable and profitable growth.
Earlier roles include anon-executive director of Atari SA and International Business seven years corporate finance work at Smith & Williamson, as well Development Director at lastminute.
com with responsibility for astwo years at  where he led the UK International Strategy for the Company and launching subsidiaries technology team, reporting to the global Head of Corporate and fully localized sites in France, Germany, Sweden, Italy, Spain, Finance for the Technology Sector.
Mike began his career at theNetherlands, Australia and Ireland.
Prior to that, he was Vice PeatMarwick Mitchell & Co now KPMG.
President, Marketing at Digidesign, a California company that brought digital multitrack recording and editing to personal 3 Stephen Murdoch, 49 computers.
Tom has also started and led a number of technology Chief Executive Officer of Micro Focus companies including Katz Media SARL, Virtual European Office Stephen has held senior executive positions in general management, VEO, and most recently, Boatbookings.
com, the worlds leading sales and strategy withIBM and Dell.
Most recently, he was the online yacht charter site, with 12,000 yachts worldwide.
He is also General Manager ofEurope, Middle East & Africa for Dells Public an active angel investor and mentor with Social Impact companies Sector and Large Commercial Enterprise business unit.
Tom holds a Bachelor of Arts, Double Major joined Micro Focus on 5 November 2012 and previously served as a inPsychology and Economics from Stanford University in California.
director from 16 April 2014 before stepping down on 20 November 2014 to assist with the balance between independent and non- 8 Steve Schuckenbrock, 56 independent directors following the acquisition of TAG.
Independent non-executive director Steve is Chief Executive at CROSSMARK, a leading sales and 4 Nils Brauckmann, 52 marketing services company.
After more than 30 years of leadership Chief Executive Officer of SUSE experience in global companies such as Dell, EDS, PepsiCo, FritoNils is Chief Executive Officer of SUSE which he has led since May Lay, and IBM, his expertise spans sales, marketing and technology.
Prior to this, Nils gained more than 20 years of management In his most recent role at Dell, Steve served as President of Dell and leadership experience in the IT industry, serving in crossServices, and prior to that led Dells Large Enterprise Unit and functional and international management positions in companies servedas the Chief Information Officer.
Most recently, he served such as WRQ acquired by TAG in 2004, Novell, and Siemens asthe President and CEO of Accretive Health.
Nixdorf, where he started his technology career.
9 Amanda Brown, 47 5 Karen Slatford, 59 Independent non-executive director Senior independent non-executive director Amanda is Group Human Resources Director of Hiscox Ltd. Karen is Chair of The Foundry, a leading special effects software Priortothis Amanda worked for Mars, PepsiCo and Whitbread in company and Draper Esprit plc, an AIM listed venture capital firm seniorhuman resources roles in Europe and internationally.
Previous and non-executive director of Intelliflo Ltd and Accesso Technology roles include Compensation and Benefits Director for PepsiCos Group plc.
Prior to her current board responsibilities, she has held restaurants division in Europe and Africa: Group Compensation various roles at board level since 2001 at a range of technology andBenefits Director for hotel and restaurant company, Whitbread: companies, including e-conomic international, Cambridge and, Human Resources Director for Marriott Hotels in the UK.
Broadband Networks Ltd, Portwise AB, Via Networks, Inc. Compel Amanda began her career at Mars Confectionery where she Group plc, HAL Knowledge Systems and Stepstone ASA.
Karen joinedas an English graduate from Reading University.
began her career at ICL before spending 20 years at HewlettPackard, where in 2000 she became Vice President and General 47
