Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Nomination committee report To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, Composition of the committee bothexecutive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring At the beginning of the financial year, the nomination committee the thecontinued ability of the Group to compete effectively committee was comprised of Karen Slatford senior independent inthemarketplace: and non-executive director as chair of the committee, Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman and Tom Skelton independent non-executive To review annually the time required from non-executives, director.
On 23 September 2015, Kevin Loosemore and Tom Skelton evaluating whether they are spending enough time to fulfil stepped down from the committee and Richard Atkins and Karen theirduties.
Geary independent non-executive directors were appointed tothecommittee.
Mrs Geary stepped downfrom the committee The committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys on1 March 2016.
Amanda Brown was appointed to the committee website: www.
The committee now comprises Karen Slatford whocontinues to chair the committee, Richard Atkins and Amanda Brown.
The committee met seven times during the financial year.
The Diversity committee will meet atleast twice during the coming financial year.
The board has considered diversity in broader terms than just The number of committee meetings attended by each member of genderand believes it is also important to reach the correct balance the committee inthe year ended 30 April 2016 was as follows: of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the board.
Allboard appointments are made on merit with the aim of achieving a correct balance.
The board intends to move in the medium-term Nomination committee toacomposition where in excess of 25% of members are female provided that the above principle of correct balance is not Number of compromised.
The Group has formal policies in place to promote eligible Number equality of opportunity, across the whole organization.
Following meetings of during the meetings theresignation of Karen Geary as a non-executive director on year attended 1March 2016 and theappointment of Amanda Brown as a nonMembers: executive director on1July 2016, the board currently comprises seven men 77.77% 2015: 77.77% and two women 22.23% Karen Slatford Chair 7 7 2015: 22.23%.
The Company Secretary is also a woman.
As Richard Atkins from 23 September 2015 5 5 opportunities arise theboard will seek to increase the presence Kevin Loosemore until 23 September 2015 2 2 ofwomen on the boardconsistent with the above policy.
Tom Skelton until 23 September 2015 2 2 Karen Geary from 23 September 2015 What the committee did during the year until1March 2016 5 5 ended30April 2016 Key activities A review of the committees membership: Role and responsibilities Board and senior executive succession planning: The committee is responsible to the full board for proposing candidates to the board, having regard to the balance and structure Review of committees terms of reference: and of the board and takes into consideration the benefits of diversity in terms of both gender and ethnicity.
The committee uses consultants Review of the Executive Chairmans letter of appointment.
to identify suitable candidates and diversity is included in the criteria set for selecting appropriate candidates.
Board changes During the year there have been several changes to the board: The terms of reference of the committee include, among other matters, the following responsibilities: Resignations Tom Skelton resigned as an independent non-executive director To review the structure, size and composition including the on 24 September 2015: skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required of the boardand make recommendations to the board with regard Prescott Ashe and David Golob resigned as non-executive toany changes: directors on 1 February 2016: and To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, Karen Geary resigned as an independent non-executive director candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise: on 1 March 2016.
To give full consideration to succession planning for directors andother senior executives: 60 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Appointments Succession planning Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann were appointed During the year the committee reviewed the board succession plan.
asexecutive directors on 1 February 2016: and Retention of individuals within the executive committee and top talent critical employees within the Group was reviewed by the Steve Schuckenbrock was appointed as an independent remuneration committee during the year.
A review of succession non-executive director on 1 February 2016. plans for the executive committee and top talent critical employees within the Group was conducted during the year following the In addition, Amanda Brown was appointed as an independent organizational changes resulting from the TAG acquisition.
The committee also reviewed the role of the Executive Chairman andon 10 December 2015 the Company announced that Kevin Recruitment process Loosemore would continue as Executive Chairman until at least The committee was responsible for the search and selection process April2018 with responsibility for the delivery of strategy: the which culminated in Steve Schuckenbrocks and Amanda Browns benefitsto shareholders of the TAG acquisition: M&A activities and appointments.
The process for both appointments was led by investor relations: and to ensure an orderly transition of all executive thesenior independent non-executive director and committee responsibilities by that date.
The Company also announced at that chair, Karen Slatford and was formal, rigorous and transparent.
time the appointment of Stephen Murdoch as CEO of Micro Focus and Nils Brauckmann as CEO of SUSE, effective 1 February 2016, In relation to both appointments, the committee appointed both reporting to the Executive Chairman.
The committee will executivesearch consultancy, JCA Group and the following continue to keep the situation under review and plan for future processwas undertaken for each appointment: changes in order to enable the board to provide effective leadershipand governance of the Group.
A job description and required capabilities brief were prepared against which potential candidates were considered: A long list of potential candidates was identified by JCA Group and presented to the committee for review: Karen Slatford Chair, nomination committee The committee considered the candidates against the objective 13 July 2016 criteria set out in the job description and required capabilities brief, having due regard for the benefits of board diversity: The committee was asked to suggest additional names thatshould be added to the list of potential candidates forconsideration: A shortlist of preferred candidates was selected from the list ofpotential candidates: The shortlisted candidates were subjected to a rigorous processof interviews and comprehensive reference checks: A preferred candidate recommendation was made by the committee to the board for consideration: and The board considered and approved the appointments.
JCA Group adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
JCA Group also undertook the externally facilitated board evaluation review during the year as described on page 52.
Additionally, the committee also recommended the appointments ofStephen Murdoch as CEO Micro Focus and Nils Brauckmann as CEO SUSE, both as executive directors of the Company.
