Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report The principal corporate governance guidance that applies In December 2015, the Company announced that Stephen Murdochand Nils Brauckmann would be joining the board as to companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during ChiefExecutive Officer of Micro Focus and Chief Executive Officer the year reported on is contained inthe UK Corporate ofSUSE respectively enabling the roles of Chairman and CEO Governance Code 2014 the Corporate Governance tobesplit.
Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann joined the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in boardon1 February 2016.
As Executive Chairman, Kevin Loosemore has responsibility for thedelivery of strategy: ensuring the benefits of the integration Compliance statement ofthe TAG business arerealized: M&A activities: investor The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company works relations:and leadership development.
Stephen Murdoch and towards compliance with the main principles of the Corporate NilsBrauckmann are responsible for the day-to-day operation and Governance Code and throughout the year reported on the execution of the MicroFocus and SUSE businesses respectively.
Company has been in compliance except forthe following: Kevin Loosemore willwork to ensure an orderly transition of all executive responsibilities by April 2018.
2.1 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Corporate Governance Code requires that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer should not be exercised by the same individual.
Key corporate governance Forthe majority of the year ended 30 April 2016 Kevin Loosemore activities in 2016 Details formerly non-executive Chairman held the combined role of Chairman Appointment of new Appointment of Stephen and Chief Executive Officer having been appointed to the roleof non-executive directors and Murdoch, NilsBrauckmann, Executive Chairman on 14 April 2011.
In order to mitigate any potential new executivedirectors CEO SteveSchuckenbrock and concerns over the combined role, Karen Slatford, the senior MicroFocus and CEO SUSE Amanda Brown independent non-executive director, had separate and defined responsibilities from the Executive Chairman.
Karen Slatford chairs An externally facilitated This provided positive feedback thenomination committee and is responsible for succession planning.
boardreview and useful suggestions, see During the year ended 30 April 2016, Karen Slatford, in herrole as page 52 for details senior independent non-executive director, led and will continue to Risk management review A renewal of the Groups lead on governance issues, including the annual review ofboard overall risk management effectiveness, and acting as an intermediary, if necessary, between framework was undertaken, non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman and between the see page 32 to 37 for details Company and its shareholders, providing a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the board, other than through the Executive Chairman.
The non-executive directors have metwithout the Executive Chairman present to appraise the Executive Chairmans performance.
The meeting was chaired by the senior independent non-executive director, Karen Slatford.
A majority of theboard is made up of independent non-executive directors.
Governance framework Group board Executive committee Comprises the executive directors and is chaired by Stephen Murdoch.
Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee See pages 54 to 59 for more information See pages 62 to 85 for more information See pages 60 to 61 for more information The principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code cover five areas: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
With the exception of remuneration which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on pages 62 to85 the following section sets out how the board has applied these principles.
48 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Role of the board Leadership The Company is controlled by the board, which is principally responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Group anditssystem of corporate governance.
Although the board does The board delegate some matters to its committees such as the remuneration, The biographies of each director can be found on page 47. nomination and audit committees, as part of its leadership and As at 1 July 2016, the board comprised nine directors: control of the Company, the board has agreed a list of items that Name Role arespecifically reserved for its consideration.
These include business strategy, financing arrangements, material acquisitions and Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman divestments, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer projects, risk management, treasury policies and establishing and Stephen Murdoch CEO Micro Focus appointed monitoring internal controls.
At each meeting, the board reviews 1February 2016 progress of the Group towards its objectives and receives papers Nils Brauckmann CEO SUSE appointed 1 February 2016 onkey subjects in advance of each board meeting.
Karen Slatford Senior independent non-executive These typically cover: director Tom Virden Independent non-executive director Strategy and budgets: Richard Atkins Independent non-executive director Steve Schuckenbrock Independent non-executive director Business and financial performance: appointed 1 February 2016 Product plans and development: Amanda Brown Independent non-executive director appointed 1 July 2016 Corporate activities: Karen Geary Independent non-executive director Human resources: and resigned 1 March 2016 David Golob Non-executive director resigned Investor relations.
1February 2016 While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control Prescott Ashe Non-executive director resigned oftheCompany, day-to-day management of the business is 1February 2016 conductedby the executive directors.
Review of the Groups Tom Skelton Non-executive director resigned principal business activities is the responsibility of the executive 24September 2015 committee.
The executive committee comprises the executive directors and is chaired by Stephen Murdoch, the CEO of MicroFocus.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all directors aresubject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM of Powers of the directors in relation to theCompany after their appointment and to re-election by the share capital shareholders on an annual basis at each AGM.
Therefore all directors Details of the powers of the directors in relation to share will retire, and seek election or re-election, as applicable, at the capitalcanbe found on page 89 of the Directors report.
As a result of the board evaluation described onpage 52, the Company is satisfied that each director continues to Independent advice be effective and to show the necessary level of commitment to fulfil The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if his or her role to justify their election or re-election, as applicable.
theybelieve they require independent professional advice in Theboard also believes in relation to the non-executive directors thefurtherance of their duties and these procedures allow thattheirskills and experience enable them to continue to provide thedirectorsto take such advice at the Companys expense.
valuable contributions to the board.
The board is satisfied that the non-executive directors exercise rigorous and objective judgment.
49 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Board meetings For the year ended 30 April 2017, the board has scheduled meetings on a regular basis, approximately every two months withadditional meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
Inmonths in which the board does not meet, update calls are scheduled to review progress.
All directors receive an agenda andboard papers in advance of meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the meetings.
The board makes full use ofappropriate technology as a means of updating and informing allits members.
Board papers are circulated electronically to a tabletdevice, allowing directors to access documentation more easily and securely.
The executive directors ensure regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive directors who are invitedto accompany the executive directors when visiting theGroups offices.
The non-executive directors have unrestricted access to anyone in the Company.
In the financial year under review the board met formally on fiveoccasions.
The board also met on a further four occasions toreceive interim updates or consider matters arising between formal meetings.
Attendance at board and committee meetings In the financial year under review there were five scheduled board meetings and four additional board meetings.
The number of board and committee meetings attended by each director in the year ended 30 April 2016 was as follows: Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Kevin Loosemore 9 9 2 2 Mike Phillips 9 9 1 Stephen Murdoch 3 3 1 Nils Brauckmann 3 3 2 Tom Skelton 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 Karen Slatford 9 9 5 5 4 4 7 7 Tom Virden 9 9 5 5 4 4 6 Richard Atkins 9 8 5 5 4 4 5 5 3,6 Prescott Ashe 6 5 3 David Golob 6 6 4 Karen Geary 7 7 3 3 5 5 5 Steve Schuckenbrock 3 3 1 1 During period of appointment.
1 Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann were appointed to the board 1 February 2016.
2 Tom Skelton stepped down from the board on 24 September 2015.
3 Prescott Ashe and David Golob stepped down from the board on 1 February 2016.
4 Karen Geary stepped down from the board on 1 March 2016.
5 Steve Schuckenbrock was appointed to the board on 1 February 2016.
6 Richard Atkins and Prescott Ashe did not attend one board meeting due to a conflict with a prior engagement.
Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting papers for board and committee meetings in the week prior to the meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting, a director will provide feedback to the Executive Chairman, the chair of the committee or the Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated to the meeting.
50 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Roles Responsibilities Executive Chairman The Executive Chairman, Kevin Loosemore, leads the board and the Company in its relationships with allstakeholders and customers.
The Executive Chairman has responsibility for setting the board agenda inconjunction with the senior independent director and the Company Secretary, the delivery of strategy and M&A activities and investor relations.
He is also responsible for chairing board and generalmeetings, facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive directors, ensuring effective communication with shareholders and upholding the highest standards of integrity and probity.
Senior independent The senior independent director, currently Karen Slatford, chairs the nomination committee and is director therefore responsible for succession planning.
Also, in her role as Senior independent non-executive director, Karen Slatford leads on governance issues, including the annual review of overall board effectiveness and of theExecutive Chairmans performance.
The Senior independent non-executive director also acts as an intermediary, ifnecessary, between non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman and between the Company andits shareholders, providing a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with theboard, other than through the Executive Chairman.
Executive directors The executive directors are responsible for developing the Groups strategy and proposing the budget forboard approval.
They are also responsible for the financial and operational performance of the Group and, in conjunction with the executive committee, they are collectively responsible for the day-to-day running of the business.
Non-executive directors The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent judgment is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
They promote the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company.
The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills andexperience, relevant to the development of the Company, which complement those of the executivedirectors.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is accountable to the board through the Executive Chairman to whom she reports.
It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that board procedures are followed andall rulesand regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretarys responsibilities include  and professional development of directors and ensuring the smooth flow ofinformation between board members, between the board and its committees and between  and senior management.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice andservices of the Company Secretary.
Karen Slatford, the senior independent non-executive director, Tom Virden, Richard Atkins, Steve Schuckenbrock and Amanda Brown, eacha non-executive director, are considered by the board to be independent as they are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgment.
They are also considered to be independent as they have all served lessthan nine years on the board, they receive no additional benefits from the Group and they have not previously held an executive rolewithin the Group.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specific terms.
Full details of their appointment are on page 76 of the remuneration report.
The letters of appointment for the non-executive directors areavailable for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM during, and for 15 minutes prior to, the meeting.
51 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance report continued Board agenda and key activities throughout Effectiveness thefinancial year The table below sets out matters that the board discussed Induction of new directors ateachmeeting and the key activities that have taken place Each new director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored throughout this period.
induction into the Companys operations.
The directors can request that appropriate training is available as required.
New directors inductions include briefings on the Companys business, strategy, Matters considered at all Key activities for the board constitution and decision making process, the roles and responsibilities boardmeetings throughout2016 of a director and the legislative framework.
New directors also meet Key project status Compliance with debt with the Groups senior product and other managers and with the andprogress covenants and liquidity Companys shareholders at the AGM.
A comprehensive induction packis available to directors at all times on a tablet device.
Strategy Risk and long-term viabilityreview Board evaluation Financial reports A comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, andstatements Evolution of Risk itscommittees and each of its directors is carried out annually.
Management Framework Theprocess is led by the senior independent non-executive Operational issues directorand supported by theCompany Secretary.
The outcome andhighlights 2016 budget review and oftheevaluations is discussed in detail by the board and any 2017 budget approval keyrecommendations are reviewed and implemented during Investor relations and thefollowing year.
capital markets update Periodic updates on corporate regulatory The 2016 board evaluation was externally facilitated by JCA Group.
Key legal updates changes and reporting Theevaluation process was conducted between February and requirements April2016 and included a series of one-on-one interviews with Key transactions alldirectors and observations of board and committee meetings.
Project assurance processes Alldirectors have endorsed the external evaluation process as Assurance and risk beinga valuable exercise.
management Externally facilitated boardreview The results of the evaluation were discussed separately with the seniorindependent non-executive director and the Executive Chairman and were reviewed in detail at the April 2016 board meeting.
Management structure The evaluation found the performance of each director to be A clearly defined organizational structure exists within which effective, that each director had demonstrated commitment to individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
therole and that the board had provided effective leadership Themanagement of the Group as a whole is delegated to the andcontrol.
The evaluation established that the board has a Executive Chairman and the executive committee.
strongfoundation with a positive dynamic and benefits from significant experience.
The executive committee, chaired by Stephen Murdoch, and comprising the executive directors and senior managers, meets The results of the evaluation are being used to assist the board in regularly to agree strategy, monitor performance and consider developingits approach going forward and include the following keybusiness issues.
As part of its review, it considers the risks recommendations that will be implemented during the financial associated with the delivery of strategy and important yearending April 2017: governanceissues within the Groups operating companies.
Ensure clarity of new structure, particularly the roles the There are a number of Group administrative functions Executive Chairman and executive directors will play and suchasFinance, Treasury, Human Resources, IT, Corporate theirinteraction with and contribution to the board: Communications and Legal.
These functions report to the boardthrough the executive committee.
Continuing risk management review with a particular focusonensuring that the Company has appropriate senior A number of Group-wide policies, issued and administered management talent to support the Companys strategy: and centrally, have been set to ensure compliance with key governance standards.
These policies cover areas such as finance, contract Ensuring appropriate longer-term succession and smooth approvals, data protection, share dealing, business conduct, boardsuccession.
The senior independent non-executive director meets with the The conduct of Micro Focus individual businesses is delegated non-executive and executive directors at least once a year to tolocal and regional executive management teams subject to a reviewthe Executive Chairmans performance.
chart of approvals policy which is communicated to all employees inthe Group.
These teams are accountable for the conduct andperformance of their businesses within the agreed businessstrategy.
52 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Evaluations of the board from 2013 to 2015 were conducted The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, internally and took the form of surveys completed by members inJuly preliminary announcement of annual results and ofthe board with respect to the performance of the board and December interim statement.
The Annual Report is made available each of its committees, as well as individual director surveys.
andmailedto shareholders at least 20 business days before Thesurveys included assessment of the effectiveness of the theAGM.
 of all material events are performance of the board and its committees and compliance madeasnecessary.
Regular communications are maintained withcorporate governance principles.
withinstitutional shareholders and presentations are given to shareholders when the half year and full year financial results areannounced and at other times.
In addition to the Executive Accountability and audit Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors, Karen Slatford the senior independent nonThe board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual executive director and the other non-executive directors are Reportand Accounts.
The board considers the Annual Report available to meet with the Companys shareholders as and andAccounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and whenrequired in order to develop a balanced understanding understandable and provides the information necessary for oftheissuesand concerns particularly of major shareholders.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Thewhole board is kept up to date at its regular meetings businessmodeland strategy.
External analysts reportsare also circulated to directors.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit committeeand details of how this is done are described in The Companys website www.
com provides theauditcommittee report on pages 54 to 59. anoverview of the business including its strategy, products andobjectives.
Conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company All Group announcements are available on the Companys hasputinplace procedures to deal with conflicts of interests, websiteandnew announcements are published without delay.
The board is aware of the other Theterms ofreference of each of the boards three committees commitments of its directors and is satisfied that these do not andother important corporate governance documents are conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
Any availableon thewebsite and from the Company Secretary.
changesto these commitments are reported to the board.
Additionally, the Executive Chairman, Chief Financial Officer andHead of Investor Relations provide focal points for Anti-bribery and corruption  and dialogue throughout the year.
Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 the Group revised its Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Announcements Code of Conduct and has in place several policies covering All major announcements are approved by the executive anti-bribery andcorruption.
 to the board for approval prior to issue.
As part of the Groups anti-bribery and corruption programme The Group also has internal and external checks to guard newemployees are required to familiarize themselves with againstunauthorized release of information.
theCodeof Conduct and complete an online anti-bribery and corruption training course.
This course has also been completed AGM byall existing employees and is rolled out to employees of newly The Companys AGM will be held on 22 September 2016 at acquired businesses.
Additionally, certain employees in higher 3pm UKtime.
It will provide an opportunity for the board to riskcountries have taken part in face-to-face workshops which meetwith allshareholders and the participation of shareholders is provides them with more focused and interactive training.
Atthe meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board will beavailable for questions from shareholders.
The Code of Conduct also includes policies on whistleblowing, giftsand hospitality, charitable donations and third party In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code duediligence and sets out the appropriate level of behaviour recommendations, the Company will count all proxy votes and expectedfrom all staff.
willindicate the level of proxies lodged, the number of proxy votesfor andagainst each such resolution and the number of Shareholder relations voteswithheld.
Aresolution will be proposed for each substantive The Company values the views of shareholders and recognizes issue and the chairsof the audit, remuneration and nomination theirinterests in the Groups strategy and performance.
committees willattend to answer questions.
Substantial shareholdings Details of the substantial shareholdings can be found on page 87 ofthe Directors report.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Details of the rights and obligations attaching to shares can befound on pages 88 to 89 of the Directors report.
