Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit committee report Committee Chairmans introduction Role and responsibilities of the committee The committee is responsible for: Dear fellow shareholders, Reviewing the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and Interim I am pleased to present the audit committee report for 2016.
Report prior to submission to the full board for approval: Thereport details the activities of the committee during the year ended 30 April 2016.
Monitoring the Groups accounting policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting procedures: In this report I have detailed how the committee has discharged its responsibilities in relation to the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code Providing a forum through which the Groups external and and in particular how the committee has focused on internal control internal auditors and external tax advisors report to the board.
The external and internal auditors together with the tax advisor attend all meetings of the committee and also meet privately Composition of the committee with committee members in the absence of executive The committee was chaired during the year by myself Richard Atkins, management prior to each committee meeting: with other independent non-executive directors, Karen Slatford, Tom Skelton until 25 September 2015, Tom Virden and Steve Schuckenbrock Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, including from 24 February 2016 being members of the committee, with Jane the independence and objectivity of the auditors taking into Smithard acting as Secretary to the committee.
Amanda Brown was account UK professional and regulatory requirements and the appointed to the Committee on 12 July 2016.
By virtue of my former relationship with the audit firm as a whole and the consideration executive and current non-executive responsibilities full details of of audit fees and fees for non-audit work: and which are set out on page 47 the board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience.
All members of the committee are The process for employees of the Company to raise, in independent.
Executive directors, Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips confidence, concerns about possible impropriety in matters of attend the meetings and other directors, Rob Ebrey Director of Tax, financial reporting or other matters which are contained in the Treasury and Risk, Graham Norton Director of Finance Micro Focus, committees terms of reference.
Darren Fisher Director of Finance from 1 April 2016, are welcome toattend if they wish.
There is also a standing invitation to attend to The written terms of reference of the committee are reviewed  LLP PwC external auditor, KPMG LLP annually and have been updated to reflect the committees KPMG internal auditor and Deloitte LLP Deloitte external responsibilities in relation to the viability statement and risk taxadvisors.
The committee is satisfied that the terms of reference enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The terms of reference include, among other things, the following responsibilities: Audit committee To report to the board on its proceedings, identifying any matters Number in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is of meetings for which Number of needed and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken: eligible to meetings attend attended To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Members: and ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected Richard Atkins Chairman 5 5 in relation to financial reporting and internal controls: Karen Slatford Independent non-executive 5 5 To assist the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by director reviewing and monitoring the Companys internal financial controls Tom Virden Independent non-executive director 5 5 and internal control and risk management systems and at least Steve Schuckenbrock Independent non-executive 1 1 annually carry out a review of its effectiveness: director from 24 February 2016 Tom Skelton Independent non-executive director 2 2 To ensure that a robust assessment of the principal risks facing until 24September 2015 theCompany has been undertaken and provide advice on the management and mitigation of those risks: Secretary: Jane Smithard Company Secretary 5 5 To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys Attendees by invitation: internal controls and risk management systems: Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman 5 5 To review and challenge where necessary the going concern Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer 5 5 assessment and the longer-term viability statement: Rob Ebrey Director of Tax, Treasury and Risk 5 5 Graham Norton Director of Finance To review the Companys procedures for preventing and MicroFocus 5 5 detecting fraud, the Companys systems and controls for theprevention of bribery, the adequacy and effectiveness Darren Fisher Director of Finance oftheCompanys anti-money laundering systems and from1April2016 1 1  for its employees to raise PwC external auditors 5 5 concernsabout possible wrongdoing in financial KPMG internal auditors 5 5 reportingorother matters: Deloitte external tax advisors 5 5 54 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, Reviewed and approved the governance around the integration theCompanys internal audit function in the context of the planning for the Group following the acquisition of TAG and the Companys overall risk management system: appointment of Deloitte to assist in that program ofwork: To report to the board as to whether the Annual Report Reviewed reports on the debt financing: andAccounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: and Reviewed reports provided by the Groups tax department regarding the reporting of tax within the financial statements To oversee the relationship with the Companys auditors, and other key tax matters: ensuring the independence and objectivity of the auditors, considering audit fees and fees for non-audit work and making Reviewed and approved an updated treasury policy: recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys external auditor.
Reviewed the committees composition and confirmed that thereis sufficient expertise and resource for the committee The audit committees terms of reference can be found on the tofulfil its responsibilities effectively: and Companys website at: investors.
Reviewed and approved the process and advised management of the information that would be required for the board to What the committee did during the year ended sufficiently review the Companys viability for the next three 30April 2016 years.
Further information can be found on page 38.
The committee met five times during the financial year ended 30April 2016.
In addition to standing items on the agenda, In carrying this out, the committee considered the work thecommittee: andrecommendations of the Group finance team, executive management and their own understanding of the business.
Received and considered, as part of the review of interim and Inaddition, the committee received reports from the external annual financial statements, reports from the external auditor auditorssetting out their view on the accounting treatments inrespect of the auditors review of the interim results, the andjudgments included in the financial statements.
The external auditplan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
auditors reports are based on a full audit of the annual financial Thesereports included the scope of the interim review and statements and a review of the interim financial statements.
annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the auditors toaddress and conclude upon key estimates and other key The chairman of the committee has regular contact outside of auditareas, thebasis on which the auditors assess materiality, theformal meetings with the partners responsible for external the terms of engagement for the auditors and an on-going andinternal audit and tax advice.
assessment of theimpact of future accounting developments forthe Group: Significant issues considered in relation to the Considered the Annual Report and Accounts in the context financial statements ofbeing fair, balanced and understandable and reviewed the The financial statements were assessed by the committee, content of a paper prepared by management with regard to this togetherwith the appropriateness and application of accounting principle in relation to the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
policies and areas of significant judgment.
The significant issues Further details can be found on page 57: considered by the committee were as follows: Considered the effectiveness and independence of the external Revenue recognition audit and recommended to the board the re-appointment of The Group has a detailed policy on revenue recognition for PwC as external auditors: eachcategory of revenue: Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Consultancy.
This includes the application of rules relating to the Considered the effectiveness and independence of the external allocation of fair values between these categories in accordance tax advisors and internal auditors: with the policy and the timing of their recognition.
It also identifies the different types of commercial contracts that the Group now Considered and agreed the annual internal audit plan and enters into as a result of the acquisition of TAG and confirmation reviewed reports of the work done by the internal auditors that the revenue recognition is in line with IFRS.
As is the case with inrespect of those plans: many technology companies, the profile of sales is weighted to the end ofthe financial quarter.
Other than in the case of Subscription, Reviewed the risk management process and put in place Maintenance and Consultancy revenue, the impact on recognized anewrisk management policy and procedure with an revenue is also weighted to the end of each financial quarter.
enhancedrisk management framework: Thiscan lead to the risk of misstatement of revenues from oneperiod to the next.
Considered the review of material business risks, including reviewing internal control processes used to identify and monitorprincipal risks and uncertainties: Reviewed the proposed PwC audit strategy, Deloittes proposal tocontinue as tax advisor and KPMGs proposal to continue as internal auditors and agreed each of their proposed fees: 55 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit committee report continued The committee received a paper from management on revenue Capitalization of development costs recognition methodology and the appropriateness of allocation The costs incurred on development projects relating to the offairvalues between Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and development of new computer software programmes and Consulting as presented in the financial statements, which significant enhancement of existing computer software concluded that no change to the allocation of fair values was programmes are recognized as intangible assets when it is probablethat the project will be a success, considering its necessary.
Thecommittee also considered the controls that commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can be management has in place to ensure that the fair value allocation measuredreliably.
The costs are written off to the consolidated ofrevenue is appropriate.
The external auditors reported that they statement of comprehensive income over aperiod of three years tested in detail all larger deals above a certain threshold and had from the point that the product is generallyavailable.
This results not identified any exceptions.
They had also tested a sample of inasignificant amount of costs beingcapitalized each year transactions from the remaining population and the operation althoughthe overall impact on the consolidated statement of ofcertain key controls over fair value allocation and found comprehensive income is currently small asthe capitalization thesetobeoperating satisfactorily at the yearend.
ofcostin the year is similar to the amortization of previously capitalized costs.
The net book value of development costs A close relationship between revenue recognition and cash attheend of the year was $43.2m 2015: $31.4m.
collectionis a good indicator of solid revenue recognition policies andthe Group has a very satisfactory cash conversion ratio, low The committee considered the method of testing for potential levelof debtor days for which sales are outstanding and bad impairment used by management and the reasonableness of the debtprovisions.
The committee addressed this through the consideration of a report from management covering these areas On the basis of the above the committee concluded that the and detailing both the capitalization and amortization processes Groupsrevenue recognition was appropriate.
applied and the new expenditure that was capitalized.
It also lookedat the levels that were capitalized in relation to Licence Tax provisions revenue generated and capitalized costs as a percentage of As set out on pages 13 to 14, the Group had net tax payments thetotalresearch and development costs of the Group in the intheyear and a tax charge in the consolidated statement of yearandalso in relation to prior years.
The committee further comprehensive income.
The Group also has a number of tax discussedthis with the external auditors and concluded that the provisions and deferred tax assets that are subject to a degree assumptions made by management were reasonable and the ofjudgment in determining the value in the financial statements.
carrying value of capitalized development costs was appropriate.
The committee ensures that the internal tax team has sufficient Valuation of the intangible assets resources to address these areas and received detailed updates Management has carried out an impairment review of its onthe tax provisions included in the Annual and Interim Reports.
The net book value of the TheGroup predominantly uses Deloitte as tax advisors to the purchased intangibles is $921.3m and goodwill is $2,436.2m.
Groupand the leadpartner attends committee meetings so thatthecommittee has adequate opportunity to discuss and The committee received a report from management and having testthe assumptions reflected inthe financial statements.
considered this concluded that no impairment was necessary.
During the year Deloitte provided additional assistance to the Restructuring provisions internal tax team with regards to the tax implications of making Following the acquisition of the TAG business, the Group changes to the Groups legal structure.
Deloitte also advised on commenced a restructuring programme to improve the operational anumber of integration related projects.
efficiency of the Group and help improve revenue.
This resulted in therecognition of restructuring provisions.
The committee received a paper from management and, followingdiscussions with the tax advisors, Deloitte, and the The committee received a report from management and discussed external auditors concluded that the Groups tax provisions the assumptions with both management and the external auditors areappropriate.
and concluded that the provisions made by management were reasonable and appropriate.
56 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Fair, balanced and understandable Assessment of effectiveness of external audit The committee is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, The committee reviewed the performance of the external auditors taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable taking into account the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and assessment of the Companys position at 30 April 2016 and the amendments to it, input from management, responses to questions information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys from the committee and audit findings reported to the committee.
performance, business model and strategy.
A paper prepared by Aspart of this process the committee reviewed the feedback management provided the committee with the supporting detail fromthePublic Report on the Audit Quality Inspection of toensure that it was in a position to report to the board that the  LLP, issued by the Financial Reporting 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, were Council FRC in May 2016.
Based on this information the committee fair, balanced and understandable.
concluded that the external audit process was operatingeffectively andPwC continued to prove effective intheirrole as external auditor.
The committee reached the conclusion on the basis that the description of the business agrees with its own understanding, the Independence and objectivity of the risks reflect the issues that concern it, appropriate weight has been externalauditors given to the good and bad news, the discussion of performance The committee has developed a robust policy designed to ensure properly reflects the performance of the year and there is a clear that the auditors objectivity and independence is not compromised andwell-articulated link between all areas of disclosure.
by it undertaking inappropriate non-audit work.
This policy is reviewed annually and was last reviewed in April 2016.
The committee assisted the board in its assessment by considering the robustness of the processes used to prepare the Groups The current external auditors, PwC, have been auditors since AnnualReport and Accounts 2016.
The processes used included MicroFocus became a UK listed company in 2005 at which time thefollowing: they were also the tax advisors to the Group.
In 2008 Micro Focus appointed Deloitte as principal tax advisors for the Group and Review of papers provided by the executive and senior theyremain in that position today.
management on all areas where significant judgments have beenapplied: Auditor objectivity was safeguarded by the committee considering several factors: the standing and experience of the external audit Review of the process of preparation and review by the senior partner: the nature and level of services provided by the external management, executive directors and the finance management auditors and confirmation from the external auditors that they have team: and complied with relevant UK independence standards and fully considered any threats and safeguards in the performance ofnon-audit work.
Review by the audit committee and discussions with the external auditors, senior management and executive directors on the fair, Non-audit fees balanced and understandable assessment.
The committee approves all non-audit work greater than 25,000 commissioned from the external auditors.
During the year the Viability statement feespaid to the auditor were $3.5m 2015: $3.3m for audit The committee assisted the board in relation to producing the services, $0.8m 2015: $0.1m for audit related assurance services, Groups viability statement.
During the year, the committee $0.1m 2015: $0.2m for services related to taxation and $1.8m reviewed the Groups risk management process and put in place a 2015:$5.1m for other non-audit services.
new risk management policy and procedure with an enhanced risk management framework to ensure a robust system of identifying, The majority of the other non-audit services provided by the assessing and managing the Groups key risks.
Further information auditors were in respect of due diligence work carried out on the onthis can be found on pages 32 to 37. acquisition of Serena and customer licence compliance forensic services.
The committee concluded that it was in the interests At the committees meeting in July 2016, the viability statement oftheGroup to use the auditors for this work as they were wasconsidered, including a review of the risks and stress testing consideredto bebest placed to provide these services.
which had been carried out.
Following this review the committee recommended to the board that the viability statement should be made for a three year period and that the Group was viable and there was negligible risk that it would breach any covenants or exceed its borrowing facilities.
The viability statement can be foundon page 38.
57 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit committee report continued As part of the external audit tender process the committee intends External audit appointment and tender toplace the internal audit out for tender as well.
The committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard tothe reappointment of the external auditors.
In making these recommendations, the committee considers auditor effectiveness Effective internal control and risk management andindependence, partner rotation and any other factors that may Following the annual cycle of work of the audit committee, the impact the external auditors reappointment.
The current external committee concluded that sound risk management and internal auditors, PwC, have been auditors since the Companys IPO in 2005 control systems had been maintained during the year.
With respect and they require that the audit partner rotates every five years.
The torisk management, under the new risk management framework most recent change in audit partner happened in the year ended thecommittee now receives and reviews a report at each meeting 30April 2013 when Andrew Paynter took over as the lead audit onthe principal risks across the Group which is discussed with partner.
Partner rotation is therefore due in the year ended 30 April seniormanagement.
The committee was satisfied with the process 2018 which coincides with the period for which Micro Focus is and risks identified.
It was also satisfied that there was a high level required togo out to tender under the EU Audit Directive and ofassurance provided by the internal auditors, KPMG, the external Regulation and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance review conducted by PwC at the half year and their full year audit, Code2014.
The committee is confident that the effectiveness and together with the input of the Groups tax advisors, Deloitte.
In this independence of the external auditors is not impaired in any way.
year Deloitte have also provided services around integration, IT and There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external finance transformation.
auditors and therefore a resolution proposing the reappointment ofPwC as external auditors will be put to the shareholders at the The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring 2016 Annual General Meeting.
internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their effectiveness.
It carries out a review, at least annually, covering all The committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and material controls including financial, operational and compliance independence of the external auditors.
controls and risk management systems.
The committee intends that the audit tender process for the year It recognizes that rigorous systems of internal control are critical ending 30 April 2018 will be undertaken in the period from January tothe Groups achievement of its business objectives, that those to April 2017 with a decision being made at the audit committee systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and meeting in April 2017.
I will be leading the tendering process and thatthey can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance appropriate firms will be invited to tender in January 2017. against material misstatement or loss.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large There is an on-going internal process under the risk management framework for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant CompaniesMarket Investigation Mandatory risks faced by the Group in association with the work performed by Useof Competitive Tender Processes and theoutsourced internal audit function.
This process has been in place AuditCommittee Responsibilities Order 2014 throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual statement of compliance Report and Accounts and it is regularly reviewed by the board and The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of accords with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control theCompetition and Markets Authoritys Order for the year and Related Financial and Business Reporting September 2014. ended30 April 2016.
As part of the process that the Group has in place to review the Internal audit effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures An outsourced internal audit function continues to be provided by designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and, KPMG.
The Groups Chief Financial Officer provides oversight and inthecase of those categorized by the board as significant, co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure independence, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to internal audit has a direct reporting line to the committee and remedyany such failings.
The review covers all material controls, itschairman.
including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The committee monitored and reviewed the scope and results of the The committee reports on a regular basis to the board on the Groups internal auditors activities as well as its effectiveness during the year.
internal financial control procedures and makes recommendations to The annual internal audit plan is approved by the committee at the the board in this area.
beginning of the financial year, with any subsequent changes to the plan requiring committee approval.
The nature and scope of the The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent and internal auditors work is reviewed and approved and the results of autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system the audits are assessed alongside managements responses.
Issues which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are with the audit reports which are graded as needing improvement are regularly reported to both the committee and the board.
considered in detail by the committee along with the appropriateness of mitigation plans to resolve the issues identified.
The key elements of the control system are: At each meeting, the committee received reports from KPMG, The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach inorder to ascertain in completing the internal audit plan and tofulfil its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained toreview results of the audits.
profitability and growth: 58 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The consolidation process entails the combining and adjusting Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction offinancial information contained in the individual financial types with appropriate authorization controls: statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in order to prepare consolidated financial statements that present All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends on the financial information for the Group as a single economic entity.
size and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There The Group accounting policies set out the basis of preparation are formal limits above which the review level is escalated: and consolidation, including the elimination of inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains between Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major Groupcompanies: accounts: and Financial information from subsidiaries is reviewed for accuracy Research and development and capital expenditure programmes by internal review and externally audited where required: and are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures.
The consolidated financial statements are completed in The board recognizes the need to understand and control the accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting variety of risks to which the Group is exposed.
During the year, Standards, IFRS Interpretations committee, the Companies Act inorder to address this on behalf of the board, the committee 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
oversaw the executive managements risk management activities under the new risk management framework.
The executive There have been no significant changes in the Companys internal management took responsibility for regular evaluation of generic control over financial reporting during the year under review that and specific risks within the business and the implementation of have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, mitigation plans to address them.
the Companys control over financial reporting.
Risks are assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups The board, with advice from the committee, is satisfied that an business objectives and according to current market and economic effective system of internal control and risk management processes issues.
The continuous monitoring of strategic and operational are in place which enable the Company to identify, evaluate and risksisthe responsibility of the board and executive management manage keys risks and which accord with the FRC Guidance on Risk respectively.
The risk process has been in place for the year under Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business review and is up to date at the time of this report.
These processes have been in place sincethe start of the financial year up to the date of approval of The committee considers any significant control matters raised in theAnnual Report and Accounts.
Further details of the risks reports from management and by the internal and external auditors.
facedbythe Group are setout on pages 32 to 37.
It then reports its findings to the board.
Where weaknesses are identified, the committee requires appropriate action to be taken bymanagement and may request internal audit to perform a Whistleblowing specificreview into these areas if required.
The Group has a whistleblowing policy which forms part of the Groups Worldwide Code of Conduct and Business Ethics.
This allows Financial reporting employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or In addition to the general internal controls and risk management malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
The committee receives processes described above, the Group also has specific internal regular reports as to whether any matters have been raised within controls and risk management systems to govern the financial the Group and any applicable details.
reporting process: Accountability There are Group policies covering what is reported monthly to The board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report the board and the executive committee.
The Groups financial and Accounts which, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and reporting system has been guided by the requirement to ensure understandable and provide the information necessary for consistency and visibility of management information to enable shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business the board and the executive team to review the Groups modeland strategy.
As set out in the Directors report, the directors worldwide operations effectively: consider that the Companys business is a going concern.
Cash flow forecasts are produced monthly by all operations.
These are reviewed by the Group treasury function to ensure effective cash management by the Group: Richard Atkins Management representations covering compliance with Group Chairman, audit committee policies and the accuracy of financial information are collected 13 July 2016 on a quarterly basis: All the major trading entities completed a self-assessment on theeffectiveness of their internal control environment: 59
