Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Nominations Committee report Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholders, reviewed the initial membership for that Changes to the Board committee together with the membership of the In August 2016 Aloysius Lee notified the Board other committees of the Board.
As a result and of his intention to retire as Group Chief Executive I am pleased to report that the Board experienced a stable year in 2016 and upon the recommendation of the Committee, Officer and a Director of the Company and the welcomed the addition of Daniel Desbaillets in Kwek Leng Peck, Kwek Eik Sheng, Nicholas Board agreed that he will step down effective as September 2016.
While the Committee formally George, Aloysius Lee and Gervase MacGregor at the end of February 2017.
As stated above, were appointed to the newly formed Risk the Committee and the Board are reviewing the met three times during the year, I believe it is beneficial for the full Board to participate in Committee, with Mr Kwek Leng Peck serving as optimal profile for Mr Lees successor and a discussions on significant Committee matters its chairman.
Susan Farr was appointed to the search is underway.
and therefore I allocated time during several Audit Committee from 1 April 2016, after having attended and positively contributed to several Daniel Desbaillets was appointed as an regular Board meetings for such discussions.
independent non-executive director of the Board The primary matters considered over the year Audit Committee meetings prior to her focused on Board and committee composition appointment.
with effect from 14 September 2016 to and organisational structure and senior strengthen the hospitality skills of the Board.
In Organisational structure and senior management addition, Howard Wu will join the Board on management succession.
The following 17 February 2017 to further expand the Boards summarises the activities undertaken by the succession Committee in 2016 and the Board changes that With regard to organisational structure, the information technology, data security and occurred during the year.
Committee and broader Board identified the e-commerce experience.
need to further develop the Groups asset Alexander Waugh and Nicholas George will Activities undertaken in 2016 management, branding and marketing teams.
retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Board and committee composition Several key hires and promotions were made 2017 AGM and the Committee will be reviewing With regard to the composition of the Board and during the year, or are being contemplated, in its committees, we took into account feedback order to up-weight the Companys capabilities in the composition of the Board and Committees in the meantime.
Further details will be available from our 2015 and 2016 Board evaluations and those important areas.
To assist with the in due course.
looked to strengthen the hospitality experience execution of the Companys strategy and review on the Board and the Groups risk management its processes and procedures, a Chief of Staff Appointment procedure profile.
This resulted in a few key actions.
joined us in October 2016, Tan Kian Seng.
Mr There is a formal procedure for the appointment Tan has subsequently been appointed as interim of new Board Directors.
As part of that First, a search was conducted for a new Director Chief Executive Officer, currently a non-Board procedure, Committee members interview with deep hospitality experience.
Following that position, while the Committee carries a full and suitable candidates who are proposed, either by search, Daniel Desbaillets was appointed as an detailed review of the skills and experience existing Board members, senior executives or by independent non-executive director in required to lead the Group and deliver its an external search firm or contacts, and September 2016.
An external search agency strategic goals.
extensive referencing is undertaken on each was not used for this appointment as the skills candidate.
Careful consideration is given to and experience sought narrowed the pool of The Committee also reviewed the succession ensure proposed appointees have sufficient time potential candidates and Daniel Desbaillets was plans for the below-Board-level senior available to devote to the role and that the one of the candidates known to some of the management team.
As a result, a new Group balance of skills, knowledge and experience on Board by virtue of his directorship of M&C REIT Chief Financial Officer, Kok-Kee Chong, joined in the Board is maintained.
When the Committee Management Limited, the manager for CDL July 2016.
Mr Chong has a wealth of experience has found a suitable candidate, a proposal is having worked in international accounting firms Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust made to the Board, which has retained the H-REIT, and also of M&C Business Trust and leading global financial institutions for 30 responsibility to approve all such appointments.
Management Limited, the trustee-manager for years, most recently as the Chief Operating CDL Hospitality Business Trust HBT.
Both Officer at JP Morgan First Capital Securities and Future priorities Chief Administration Officer at JP Morgan Chase H-REIT and HBT are comprised as a stapled The Company, like its competitors, must adapt group in CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT.
in order to grow in the current environment.
The Daniel has held senior positions with Nominations Committee and Board continue to InterContinental Hotels Group, Hilton and Also, in light of the challenging conditions in Asia keep the talent within the Board and senior and the United States, particularly in Singapore Shangri-La since starting in the industry in 1973, executive team under review and will look to and most recently served as an independent and New York, the skills and experience further enhance the human resources and non-executive director on the boards of CDLHT.
necessary to help turn around those regions was organisational structure of the Group in 2017. reviewed and new appointments were made, or are in process, to help refocus the business and Second, upon the recommendation of the Audit Kwek Leng Beng Committee, a separate Risk Committee was drive growth in those markets.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee formed in April 2016 and the Committee 16 February 2017 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65 Governance Nominations Committee report continued Committee Governance Membership that this policy is reflected in all levels of the The Nominations Committee comprises a organisation.
As part of those efforts, we majority of independent Non-Executive support the aspirations espoused by Lord Directors and meets on such occasions as are Davies, in his review of Women on Boards necessary, but at least twice each year.
Kwek regarding the representation of women at the Leng Beng chairs the Committee except when highest level of the organisation.
Selection of the business of the meeting concerns his candidates to join the Board is based on merit succession.
The Board considers that all and the contribution which they will bring to the members have the experience and expertise workings of the Board.
necessary to meet the Committees responsibilities.
Advisors The Company Secretary, the Group Chief Role of the Committee Executive Officer and other members of the management team are invited to attend The role of the Committee is, among other things, to: meetings as appropriate.
External advisers are consulted when necessary to provide advice or Review the structure, size and composition of market perspective.
the Board, including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Directors: The Committee did not utilise any external consider succession planning for directors advisors or agencies during 2016.
However, and other senior executives, taking into management did engage recruitment firms account the challenges and opportunities from time to time during the year, as facing the Company and the skills and necessary, to identify qualified candidates to fill expertise needed: senior executive positions within the Group.
identify and nominate for approval by the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies when Terms of Reference The Nominations Committees terms of they arise: keep under review the leadership needs of the reference are available at: organisation, with a view to ensuring the www.
com corporate continued ability of the organisation to investors.
compete effectively in the marketplace: review the time required from Non-Executive Directors: in consultation with the Chairmen of the Board committees, review and if appropriate recommend changes to the composition of the committees: consider the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of their specified terms of office, giving due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board: and assess the appointment of any Director to an executive or other office.
Board diversity The Committee recognises the value of diversity and that it can only serve to strengthen the Group.
We continue to incorporate all aspects of diversity as an objective criterion for the selection of future Board members and we also strive to ensure 66 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016
