Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Audit Committee report Annual chairmans statement Dear Shareholders, The Audit Committee holds regular, structured monitored the Groups performance against meetings and consults with senior the previous years results and budget: On 3 May 2016, a Risk Committee was formed management.
The Committee frequently monitored the performance of newly with its own chairman and members.
An requests that senior operational and functional refurbished hotels: overview of our risk management and principal heads attend meetings in order to update the reviewed the capital expenditure of the Group: risks can be found on pages 26 to 30.
Committee with events in the business.
reviewed the selection and testing of assets Occasionally external business consultants for impairment purposes: Our objectives were also invited to attend the meetings to assessed whether material judgemental The key objective of the Committee throughout present specific projects.
These meetings assumptions that were used in the valuations the year has remained the provision of effective provide the Committee an opportunity to were within reasonable parameters: governance over the appropriateness of the understand the projects and assess monitored transactions with the Companys Groups financial reporting including the managements decisions.
majority shareholder: adequacy of related disclosures, the reviewed the Groups tax arrangements performance of both the internal audit function The Committee regularly reviews strategic and including transfer pricing: and the external auditor, and the oversight of operational risks and the associated controls reviewed the Groups cash position and future the Groups systems of internal control, and mitigating factors.
The Committee receives commitments, borrowings, facilities and business risks and related compliance regular reports and briefings from internal audit covenants: and activities.
and has reviewed the level of internal audit reviewed debt recoverability and agree on resource available within the Group and write-off, if deemed necessary.
Our members believes that it is adequate for the size, The Board believes that amongst the members structure and business risks of the Group and Impairment of hotel assets of the Committee they have suitable broad is supplemented with appropriate external Note 12 to the consolidated financial commercial knowledge and significant resources where needed.
statements states that the carrying amount of business experience.
The Board has assets as at 31 December 2016 is 3,238m determined that Gervase MacGregor has Financial reporting 2015: 2,764m.
The Group continues to recent and relevant financial experience as The Committee monitors the integrity, prior to engage external valuation experts to assist with required by the provisions of the UK Corporate submission to the Board, of periodic financial the valuation exercise and impairment review.
statements, annual accounts, reports to Financial performance and sensitivity of the shareholders and any other public valuation models to the other key inputs means The Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief announcement concerning the Groups that the valuation remains inherently subjective.
Financial Officer, senior finance managers, financial position, corporate governance The property, plant and equipment assets are Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit, statements and statements on the Groups carried at historical cost, which mitigates the although not members of the Committee, also system of internal controls and reports its views risk of impairment of these assets.
attend the meetings, as does the senior to the Board to assist in its approval of the statutory auditor from our external auditor, who During the year, the Committee examined results announcements and the annual report.
is not present when we discuss the auditors managements recommendations in respect of performance and or remuneration.
The Committee performs a detailed review of the valuation of the Groups hotel and property the content of the annual and half-yearly press portfolio and agreed that: As part of this process of working with the releases and annual report and accounts, as Board and to maximise effectiveness, meetings well as trading updates.
The Committee has the selection of assets to be tested was done of the Committee generally take place just prior satisfied itself that controls over the accuracy appropriately, taking into account indicators of to a Company Board meeting.
The Chairman and consistency of information presented in the impairment risk and materiality: of the Committee reports to the Board as part annual report and accounts are robust, and there was the appropriate use of third party of a separate agenda item, on the activity of has confirmed to the Board that it believes this valuation expertise: the Committee and matters of particular annual report and accounts is fair, balanced sufficient robust challenge was given to relevance to the Board in the conduct of their and understandable.
The Committees review management by the external auditors: work.
of the financial statements for the year ended material judgemental assumptions that were 31 December 2016 focused on the following used in the valuations were within reasonable Our role areas of significance: parameters: and The Committees terms of reference are conclusions have been appropriately drawn.
available from the Groups website at www.
reviewed the Groups hotel performance with millenniumhotels.
reference to RevPAR and hotel revenue: html.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45 Governance Audit Committee report continued Annual chairmans statement continued Valuation & classification of investment Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing assessed through the review of audit plans, properties business, the Committee reviewed the Groups reports and conclusions and through In general, the carrying amount of investment risk management strategy to ensure that any discussions with management and the external properties is the fair value of the properties as required remedial action on any identified auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that the determined by a registered independent weaknesses is taken.
This includes a regular audit was effective.
Fair values were determined having review of the risk register which contains the regard to recent market transactions for similar significant risks faced by the Group and External auditor process The Committee acknowledges the recent properties in the same location as the Groups identifies their potential impact and likelihood.
Where a fair value change in the law requiring mandatory auditor Where specific actions are agreed to mitigate rotation.
There has been regular partner cannot be reasonably determined, the property is held at cost.
risks to a level deemed acceptable, these are rotation, and Jonathan Downer took over from agreed with specific timeframes for delivery and Steve Masters after completion of the prior year Classification of an asset as investment are monitored closely until fully implemented.
The Committee is satisfied that KPMG continues to possess the property requires judgement, and is determined by reference to future intentions and the The system of internal controls audited by skills and experience required to fulfil its duties Internal Audit and commented on by the effectively and efficiently.
The total carrying amount of investment properties as at external auditor from time to time encompasses all controls including those The Committee is responsible for 31 December 2016 is 534m 2015: 506m as shown in Note 14 to the consolidated relating to financial reporting processes, recommending the appointment, operational and compliance controls and those re-appointment and removal of the external financial statements.
relating to risk management processes.
Consideration is given each year to an During the year, the Committee examined audit tender process as KPMG LLP has been The Committee ensures that arrangements are managements recommendations in respect to the Groups auditor since the listing of the the classification and valuation of investment in place for employees to raise concerns, in Company on the London Stock Exchange in confidence, about possible fraud risk or wrongproperties and agreed that: 1996.
Under the current transitional rules, the doing in financial reporting or other matters.
latest year in which KPMG would be able to there was appropriate classification of assets Where a whistleblowing incident occurs, this is undertake an audit of the Company is to as investment properties: investigated by Internal Audit on a confidential 31 December 2022. there was appropriate use of third party basis and in a proportionate manner.
valuation expertise: Appropriate actions are recommended and Non-audit services sufficient robust challenge was given to undertaken which are reported to the In order to ensure the continued independence management by the external auditors: Committee which then reviews the and objectivity of the Groups external auditor, material judgemental assumptions that were recommendations and focuses on possible the Group has strict policies regarding the used in the valuations were within reasonable trends and potential systematic weaknesses.
provision of non-audit services rendered by the parameters: and external auditor.
The Committees approval is conclusions have been appropriately drawn.
The Committee had discussions with the required in advance for the provision of nonexternal auditor on audit planning, fees, audit services if the fee exceeds 30,000 for an Internal controls and risks accounting policies, audit findings, internal individual assignment.
The Committee reviews The Committee is responsible for reviewing, controls and non-audit services rendered by non-audit fees regularly.
The Groups external and conducting an annual review of the them.
The external auditor attended all of this auditor is prohibited from providing any service effectiveness of the Groups system of internal years Committee meetings.
Meetings are also that would conflict with their statutory control and risk management procedures.
held with the auditor without management responsibilities or which would otherwise present.
The effectiveness of audit was compromise their objectivity or independence.
46 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information In light of new requirements issued in the revised Ethical Standard for EU auditors, with effect from financial year commencing from 1 January 2017, KPMG is further prohibited from providing tax compliance services and other conflicting non-audit services directly or indirectly to the Groups controlled entities in EU.
The Committees advanced approval is required for all non-audit services to be rendered by KPMG if the fee exceeds 30,000 per assignment.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, KPMGs audit fee amounted to 2m and KPMGs non-audit fees were 1m in total.
Committee performance review The Committees performance is reviewed annually through a facilitated evaluation conducted by Lintstock Limited, the results of which showed that the Committee was effective.
Gervase MacGregor Chairman of the Audit Committee 16 February 2017 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 47
