Governance Corporate governance statement Dear Shareholders, We formed a new Risk Committee of the Board Compliance with the UK Corporate with effect from 1 April 2016 to help the Group Governance Code While the Board has determined that the establish a stronger risk management Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc M&C or Company has complied with the provisions of framework.
That Committee currently is chaired the Company is the holding company of the the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2016, by Mr Kwek Leng Peck and its other members Millennium Hotels & Resorts group of as noted in this report, an effective governance include Aloysius Lee, Nicholas George, companies the Group.
M&C is a premium regime must go beyond an annual compliance Gervase MacGregor and Kwek Eik Sheng.
listed company with equity shares trading on assessment.
One size does not fit all and good the Main Market of the London Stock governance is a work in progress that must As announced in August 2016, following a Exchange and therefore the Company is evolve as the business evolves: it must be recommendation from our Board evaluation, subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code practical and tailored to the needs of each we appointed a new Director, Daniel the Code.
The Code sets out standards of business.
Desbaillets, to the Board with effect from 14 good practice in relation to Board leadership September 2016 in an effort to increase the and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability It is along these lines that the Groups hospitality experience on the Board.
With a and relations with shareholders.
This year the governance structure was enhanced during the background in hotels spanning over 40 years, Board has assessed the Groups compliance in year to help the Company better cope in a we are pleased that Daniel has joined us and 2016 against the version of the Code which difficult trading environment, as outlined in my look forward to his continuing contribution in was last amended by the Financial Reporting Chairmans statement on page 4, and further 2017 and beyond.
Council in April 2016, a copy of which is develop its platform for future growth.
They key available at www.
uk, and the Board has governance changes made in 2016many of Further to the retirement of Aloysius Lee at the determined that the Company has complied which, it is worth noting, were end of February 2017 and Alexander Waugh with the provisions of the Code.
recommendations from our annual Board and Nicholas George not seeking re-election at evaluation completed during 2016 and the the 2017 AGM, the Nominations Committee This statement forms a part of the Directors previous yearare outlined below.
has been reviewing CEO and Board Report.
The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 30 succession and further details can be found in provides information about the Groups strategy We continued to streamline Board meetings so the Nominations Committee report on page 65. and outlook, its businesses, the financial and that the meetings we do have are more operating performance during the year, the effective and relevant.
As part of this process, In light of this activity, I would like to take a principal risks and uncertainties and its we implemented small improvements in some moment to thank the Directors for their time corporate responsibility initiatives.
A description instances, such as the launch of electronic and their commitment to helping the Group to of the Groups business model is included on Board portal software, while other grow while effectively managing its risks.
page 6 as required by provision C. 1.2 of the enhancements were more significant.
For Achieving a balance between these two Code.
example, we reduced the overall number of objectives is not easy.
meetings held during the year and the Board is The role of the Board and its committees reviewing its schedule of Board reserved In 2017 I will work with the Board to ensure The Board provides leadership to the Group.
The primary objective of these that we continue to focus on the challenges we sets the Groups strategy and oversees initiatives is to allow the Directors to focus more face, both internal and external, and that the implementation of that strategy, ensuring that on strategic matterssuch as the Companys Board and Group have the proper mix of talent acceptable risks are taken and mitigated where management structure, business models, and resources to allow it to execute its strategy possible.
The Board ensures that adequate strategic plan and threats to the Company and and develop the business over the coming resources are in place in order to deliver industryand less on granular operational years.
long-term value to shareholders and benefits to items.
the wider communities in which the Group Kwek Leng Beng operates.
We increased the participation by senior Chairman executive team members in Board meetings to The activities of our Audit, Remuneration and give the Directors greater exposure to those Nominations Committees are set out in the 16 February 2017 who influence and shape our business and the reports of each committee, which reports are new members of the senior management deemed to be part of this report.
Also, several Directors visited the Risk Committee can be found in the Our risks Groups operations in China, Singapore, section of the Strategic Report on page 26.
Europe and the U. S. over the year to gain a The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all better understanding of operations on the standing committees of the Board.
40 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information The Board has a schedule of matters reserved Appointment, re-appointment and removal of The respective responsibilities of the Chairman for its attention and which require its approval, the external auditor to be put to shareholders and Group Chief Executive Officer are set out including the following: for approval, following the recommendation of below and have been approved by the Board the Audit Committee: again this year.
The Board currently is Long term objectives and commercial Determining the remuneration policy for the comprised of ten directors including the strategy: directors, company secretary and other senior Chairman, one Executive Director, six Oversight over the Groups operations and executives: and independent Non-Executive Directors and two internal controls: The introduction of new share incentive plans other Non-Executive Directors who, like the Annual operating and capital expenditure or major changes to existing plans, to be put Chairman, are appointees of the majority budgets: to shareholders for approval.
Each Extension of the Groups activities into new Director is expected to fulfil his or her duties for business or geographic areas: Certain of those reserved matters have been the benefit of all shareholders.
Changes relating to the Groups capital delegated to the Boards standing committees structure, corporate structure and listing with specific delegated authority.
Copies of the Board and committee attendance status: terms of reference for each committee can be The Board generally meets up to ten times a The half-yearly report, interim management found on the investor relations section of the year.
The actual number of regularly scheduled statements and any preliminary Groups website at www.
Board and Committee meetings attended by announcement of the final results: com corporate.
each Director during the year is shown below The annual report and accounts, including the next to the maximum number of such meetings corporate governance statement and The Group Chief Executive Officer, supported that each Director could have attended during Directors remuneration report: by an executive committee comprised of the the year.
In addition to regularly scheduled Dividend policy, declaration of the interim regional heads of operation and key functional meetings, the Board, Remuneration Committee dividend and recommendation of the final heads, is responsible to the Board for the and Nominations Committee each held one ad dividend: Groups operational performance, including: hoc meeting during the year, while the Audit Significant changes in accounting policies or Committee held two.
Risk Committee meetings practices: implementing the Group strategy as were scheduled as needed.
The Groups treasury policies: determined by the Board: Capital expenditure above 5m and material maintaining adequate internal control systems contracts and leases: and risk management processes: Any acquisition of land, property, or any monitoring operational performance against addition of a hotel into the portfolio by plans and targets and reporting to the Board acquisition or by means of a management any significant variances: and contract: maintaining an effective management team Major investments, including the acquisition or and succession planning.
disposal of interests of more than five per cent of the voting shares of any company or the making of any takeover offer: Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk Marketing campaigns or sponsorships where Board Committee Committee Committee Committee expenditure exceeds 500,000: Kwek Leng Beng 7 7 2 2 Approval of resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put forward to Aloysius Lee Tse Sang 7 7 3 3 shareholders at a general meeting: Shaukat Aziz 6 7 4 4 2 2 Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and 1 Daniel Desbaillets 3 3 listing particulars: 2 Susan Farr 6 7 4 4 3 4 1 2 Changes to the structure, size and composition of the board, following Nicholas George 7 7 5 5 3 4 2 2 3 3 recommendations from the Nominations Gervase MacGregor 7 7 5 5 2 4 2 3 Committee: Kwek Leng Peck 6 7 2 2 2 3 Appointments to the board, following Kwek Eik Sheng 7 7 3 3 recommendations by the Nominations Alexander Waugh 7 7 5 5 4 4 2 2 Committee: Membership and chairmanship of Board 1 Daniel Desbaillets was appointed to the Boar d with effect from 14 September 2016. committees: 2 Susan Farr was appointed to the Audit Committee with ef fect from 1 April 2016.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Chairman strategic vision, develop the strategic plan, of Association of the Company and any The Chairman provides leadership to the Board business plan and budget and deliver the necessary shareholder approval or ratification.
on all aspects of its role.
His key duties are to: same to the satisfaction of the Board: lead and act as an advocate for the executive Pursuant to Listing Rule 13.8.
17 and based on the principles outlined in provision B.
1.1 of the formulate and set the strategic direction and management team of the Group: organisational structure of the Group, subject oversee the execution of the strategic vision Code, the Board regularly assesses the independence of each of the Companys to the Boards approval: and plans, and assess the Groups set a clear vision for the Group: performance and progress in meeting them: Non-Executive Directors, taking into account whether the Non-Executive Director is mentor the Group Chief Executive Officer as promote the growth of the Group: and when required: develop the management team and establish independent in character and judgement, and whether there are any relationships or balance the interests of management and the a succession plan for key management Board as well as the needs of shareholders appointments: circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
With regard and management: act on the feedback of the Chairman: act as a liaison between management and the be responsible for the day-to-day to Daniel Desbaillets appointment to the Board in September 2016, the Directors were Board as well as between the Company and management of the Groups business and its shareholders: affairs and ensure that significant issues that satisfied that notwithstanding his previous directorships with CDL Hospitality Trusts manage communications and information arise are resolved in an efficient and timely dissemination processes between the manner: and CDLHT, Mr Desbaillets met the independence requirements based on the Company and its shareholders and work lead the management team to improve closely with the Companys public relations performance in every division.
following factors, among others: team to achieve this objective: establish the agenda and manage Board The independent Non-Executive Directors the ownership structure and composition of The majority of the Board is made up of the Board of CDLHT, and the fact that Mr meetings: Desbaillets had resigned from his offer advice and tap the collective wisdom independent Non-Executive Directors who have wide ranging international experience at directorships with CDLHT: and experience of Board members: Mr Desbaillets deep hospitality experience take a proactive role in the appointment of senior levels in areas of finance, accounting, hospitality, fund management, media, branding and external business interests, which would Directors and, following such appointments, allow him to make reasoned judgements: and oversee the development of individual and international affairs.
They bring strong, Directors: and independent judgement to the deliberations of the lack of other relationships or arrangements between Mr Desbaillets and the controlling develop the top management team, in the Board, particularly in respect of the Groups particular the Group Chief Executive Officer, corporate governance regime.
shareholder of the Company and its connected parties.
and establish a succession plan for the Group Chief Executive Officer position.
Nicholas George, as the Senior Independent In addition, the Board conducted its regular Director, is available to meet with our There have been no material changes to the institutional shareholders and shareholder independence review in December 2016 and determined that there was no change to the Chairmans other significant commitments representative bodies and to discuss any during the year.
matters where it would be inappropriate for independent status of the five other independent Non-Executive Directors.
Their conversations to be held with either the The Group Chief Executive Officer Chairman or the Group Chief Executive Officer.
diverse business backgrounds, skills and The Group Chief Executive Officer reports to experience enable all of them to continue to He also acts as a sounding board for the the Board and has ultimate accountability for Chairman and as an intermediary for other bring independent judgement to bear on issues the day-to-day running of the Group.
He is of strategy, performance, resources, key Board members when necessary.
responsible for leading the management team, appointments, standards of conduct and other operational activities and performance of the On appointment, each independent Nonmatters presented to the Board.
Group, including the effective delivery of the Executive Director receives a letter of Companys strategy and business plan, as appointment setting out the terms of their At least once during the year the Chairman and independent Non-Executive Directors met, agreed by the Board, while managing and appointment, fees to be paid and matters such mitigating the principal risks faced by the as confidentiality of information, potential without the Executive Director being present, to discuss the performance of senior Group.
conflicts of interest and share dealing restrictions.
Such letters of appointment are management, the Board and other matters of importance.
His duties are to: subject to termination by either party giving one months notice.
Appointment and any receive the strategic vision of the Group from subsequent reappointment of a Non-Executive the Board of Directors and to implement such Director are subject at all times to the Articles 42 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Director training and information evaluation process focused on the following principal risk factors and mitigating activities are All Directors have access to the advice of the key themes: described on pages 26 to 30.
Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring the Board procedures and applicable board composition, expertise and dynamics: The main features of the Groups internal time management and Board support: control and risk management framework are corporate governance rules and regulations are observed.
In addition, the Directors are able, if the operation of Board committees: set out below.
strategic oversight: necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Nonrisk management and internal controls: and Strategy succession planning and human resource The Groups strategic direction is reviewed by Executive Directors also have the opportunity to meet separately with the Chairman during management.
the Board, generally on an annual basis.
Often as part of that process, a dedicated Board the year.
As the Risk Committee was newly formed in strategy session is held with the Group Chief April 2016, the evaluation did not assess the Executive Officer and other senior The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is also responsible for workings of that committee.
Further detail about the Groups business model and ensuring that Directors receive appropriate As part of the Lintstock exercise, an evaluation training at the Companys expense where strategy can be found on page 6. of the Chairman was completed by the Management prepares an annual budget for specific expertise is required in the course of independent Non-Executive Directors, led by the exercise of their duties.
All Directors receive each year, in line with the Groups strategy, the Senior Independent Director, and individual and that budget is submitted to the Board for a Board compendium detailing matters relating performance reviews were submitted by the to Board procedures.
A bespoke induction its review and approval.
The Board reviews, at least quarterly, programme is established for any new directors who are appointed, based on their needs and managements progress in executing the A comprehensive report, prepared by Lintstock Groups strategy and how the Groups experience.
based on feedback received, was then performance is tracking against the annual Conflicts of interest reviewed by the Board.
During the course of budget.
the year, several changes were implemented The Board has established agreed procedures for managing potential operational conflicts of based on that feedback as noted in the Internal controls Chairmans statement to this report.
The Company reviews and confirms its level interest.
These procedures and any potential conflicts authorised in accordance with section of compliance with the Code on an annual Lintstock Limited has no other significant basis.
175 of the Companies Act 2006, as permitted connection with the Group.
by the Companys Articles of Association, are The matters reserved to the Board require that significant transactions, projects and reviewed by the Board at least annually and Internal control and risk management other potential conflicts are reviewed as they programmes must have specific Board system in relation to preparation of approval.
may arise from time to time.
The Board is consolidated accounts satisfied that the procedures for managing If Board approval is not required, authority The Board is responsible for the Groups levels are prescribed and delegated to ensure potential conflicts remain effective.
internal control and risk management systems, segregation among management and proper including oversight over the processes and Evaluation process escalation of approval limits.
procedures which are in place in connection An independent,  Board Group financial and treasury policies, controls with the preparation of the Groups evaluation was once again conducted by and procedures are in place and regularly consolidated accounts.
In establishing these Lintstock Limited.
This year the evaluation was reviewed and updated.
systems, the Directors have considered the a continuation of the first part of the evaluation All financial information published by the nature of the Groups business, the principal that was completed in the fourth quarter of Group is subject to the approval of the Audit risks to which the business is exposed, the 2015, pursuant to which the Directors and Committee and the Board.
likelihood of such risks occurring, their potential Company Secretary completed on-line impact and the costs of protecting against questionnaires.
In the second part of the Risk management such risks.
However, such systems are The principal risks of the Group are assessed evaluation, conducted over the first half of designed to manage or mitigate these principal 2016, the Lintstock team held individual oneannually by the Risk Committee and risks, rather than eliminate them, and can only confirmed by the Audit Committee.
on-one interviews with each Directorexcept provide reasonable and not absolute assurance for Daniel Desbaillets, who had not yet joined During the year, there is an ongoing process against material misstatement.
The Groups for identifying, evaluating and managing those the Boardand the Company Secretary.
The Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43 Governance Corporate governance statement continued risks and, if appropriate, modifying the risks in analysts have the opportunity to ask questions light of changing conditions.
This process is of the Group Chief Executive Officer and reviewed by the Risk Committee on behalf of Chairman of the Board.
the Board and has been in place for the year Management meets with institutional under review and up to the date of approval of shareholders on an ongoing basis to review the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Groups performance, business model and objectives.
In addition, the Senior Operation Independent Director often conducts Primary responsibility for the day-to-day meetings with a range of major shareholders operation of the internal control and risk during the year: other Non-Executive Directors management systems is delegated to the have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Groups Chief Executive Officer, who chairs Significant feedback expressed by the management Risk Committee, and the shareholders during those meetings is then executive management team.
The heads of provided to the Board in a timely manner.
the Companys operating regions and global As part of the Companys regular investor functions carry out regular reviews to ensure relations activities, the Group Chief Executive appropriate actions are implemented to meet Officer, the Company Secretary and senior the Groups objectives and manage its finance personnel are available to answer principal risks appropriately.
queries raised by analysts and institutional investors from time to time.
Assurance The Groups website provides regular updates The effectiveness of the internal control and for investors and contains all announcements risk management systems is reviewed by an made by the Group.
internal audit function and, where appropriate, At the annual general meeting, all by the Groups external auditor and or shareholders have the opportunity to question external consultants, who report to the Chairman and other Directors, including management and to the Audit Committee.
As the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Risk part of that process, the internal audit and Nominations Committees.
The Company department produces individual reports, prepares individual resolutions on each which are issued to appropriate senior substantially separate issue to be put to management, who are accountable to rectify shareholders and does not combine any deficiencies and implement any resolutions together inappropriately, and the recommendations.
These reports are Annual Report and Accounts is laid before the summarised and distributed, as appropriate, shareholders at the annual general meeting.
to the Audit Committee members, the Group Notice of the annual general meeting and Chief Executive Officer, senior management related papers are sent to shareholders at and the external auditors and, where least 21 working days prior to the date of the necessary, issues are drawn to the attention meeting, and the Company encourages all of the full Board.
shareholders to make positive use of the opportunity to communicate with the Board.
Communications with shareholders A schedule of the proxy votes cast at the The Board and executive management team meeting is then made available on the regularly interact with shareholders and Companys website after the conclusion of analysts.
Presentations are made after the announcement of the Groups final and half-yearly results.
During these presentations, 44 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016
