Board of Directors Knowledge and experience Bob Ivell Phil Urban Tim Jones Non-Executive Chief Executive Finance Director Chairman b c d d e d e Stewart Gilliland Eddie Irwin Josh Levy Senior Non-Executive Non-Executive Independent Director Director Director a b c a b c Ron Robson Colin Rutherford Imelda Walsh Deputy Chairman Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director a b c a b c d a b c Key Keith Browne Dave Coplin a.
Member of the Audit Committee Non-Executive Independent b.
Member of the Remuneration Committee c. Member of the Nomination Committee Director Non-Executive d. Member of the Market Disclosure Committee Director e. Member of the Executive Committee a b c 38 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Bob Ivell Ron Robson Non-Executive Chairman Aged 64 Deputy Chairman Aged 53 Appointed to the Board in May 2011, Bob has over 30 years of extensive Appointed as Deputy Chairman in July 2011, Ron is a Managing Director food and beverage experience with a particular focus on food-led, of Tavistock Group, Chief Executive of Ultimate Finance Group and a managed restaurants, pubs and hotels.
He is currently Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Tottenham Hotspur Limited.
He was Chairman of Carpetright plc, a Non-Executive Director of Charles Wells previously Chief Financial Officer of Tamar Capital Partners and Group Limited and President of The Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers.
Finance Director of Kenmore, both property investment and He was previously Senior Independent Director of AGA Rangemaster management groups.
From 2005 to 2008 he was Group Finance Group plc and Britvic plc, and a main Board Director of S&N plc as Director of The Belhaven Group plc, a listed pub retailing, brewing and Chairman and Managing Director of its Scottish & Newcastle retail drink distribution group.
Prior to that he held a number of senior finance division.
He has also been Chairman of Regent Inns, Park Resorts and roles including Group Finance Director of a listed shipping and logistics David Lloyd Leisure Limited, and was Managing Director of Beefeater group, and trained as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Restaurants, one of Whitbreads pub restaurant brands, and a Director Ron is a nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. of The Restaurant Group.
Bob is Chair of the Nomination Committee and of the Market Disclosure Committee.
Colin Rutherford Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 57 Phil Urban Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2013, Chief Executive Aged 53 Colin is currently Chairman of Brookgate Limited and Teachers Media Phil joined Mitchells & Butlers in January 2015 as Chief Operating Officer plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Evofem Biosciences Inc. and became Chief Executive in September 2015.
Phil was previously and Renaissance Services SAOG amongst his other activities.
He was Managing Director at Grosvenor Casinos, a division of Rank Group and formerly Executive Chairman of MAM Funds plc and Euro Sales Finance Chairman of the National Casino Forum.
Prior to that, he was Managing plc and has served as a Director of various other public and private Director for Whitbreads Pub Restaurant division, and for Scottish & companies in the UK and overseas.
Colin is a member of the Institute of Newcastle Retails Restaurants and Accommodation Division.
Phil has Chartered Accountants of Scotland and has directly relevant corporate an MBA and is a qualified management accountant CIMA.
finance experience in both the leisure and hospitality industries.
Colin is Chairman of the Audit Committee, and serves on all other independent Tim Jones governance committees.
Finance Director Aged 53 Tim was appointed Finance Director in October 2010.
Prior to joining the Imelda Walsh Company, he held the position of Group Finance Director for Interserve Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 52 plc, a support services group.
Previously, he was Director of Financial Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2013, Operations at Novar plc and held senior financial roles both in the UK Imelda is a Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Remuneration and overseas in the logistics company, Exel plc.
Tim is a member of the Committees of William Hill plc and FirstGroup plc.
She was a NonInstitute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and obtained Executive Director, and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, of an MA in Economics at Cambridge University.
Mothercare plc from 2013 to 2016 and of Sainsburys Bank plc from 2006 to 2010.
She has held senior Executive roles at J Sainsbury plc, Stewart Gilliland where she was Group HR Director from March 2004 to July 2010, Senior Independent Director Aged 59 Barclays Bank plc and Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Limited.
Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in May 2013 Imelda is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
and as Senior Independent Director in February 2015.
Stewart was Chief Executive Officer of Muller Dairy UK Limited until 2010 and prior Keith Browne to that held senior management positions in InBev SA, Interbrew UK Non-Executive Director Aged 47 Limited and Whitbread plc.
He is currently Chairman of Booker Group Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2016, Keith is a Plc and Curious Drinks Limited and a Non-Executive Director of C&C representative of Elpida Group Limited, a significant shareholder in Group plc and Natures Way Foods Limited.
Keith obtained a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from University College Dublin, qualified as a chartered accountant in Eddie Irwin 1994 and subsequently gained an MBA from University College Dublin.
Non-Executive Director Aged 57 After joining KPMG Corporate Finance in 1996, he became a partner in Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2012, Eddie is a the firm in 2001 and Head of Corporate Finance in 2009.
He retired from nominee of Elpida Group Limited, a significant shareholder in Mitchells & the partnership to operate as an Independent Consultant in 2011.
Eddie is Finance Director of Coolmore, a leading thoroughbred bloodstock breeder with operations in Ireland, the USA and Australia Dave Coplin and a Non-Executive Director of Grove Ltd, the holding company of Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 46 Barchester Healthcare Limited.
He graduated from University College, Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in February 2016, Dublin, with a B Comm Degree and he is a Fellow of both the Association Dave is the Chief Envisioning Officer for Microsoft Limited and an of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Institute of Chartered established thought leader on the role of technology in personal and Secretaries and Administrators.
For over 25 years he has worked across a range of industries and customer marketplaces, providing strategic advice and Josh Levy guidance around the role and optimisation of technology in the modern Non-Executive Director Aged 26 society both inside and outside of the world of work.
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in November 2015, Josh is a nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. a significant shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers.
Josh is an Investment Analyst at Tavistock Group having previously worked in the Investment Banking Division of Investec Bank.
Josh holds an MSc and a BA Hons from the University of Nottingham.
39 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
