Audit Committee report Membership and remit of the Audit Committee The main purpose of the Audit Committee is to review and maintain oversight of Mitchells & Butlers corporate governance, particularly with respect to financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
The Audit Committees responsibilities also include: reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and internal control weaknesses: reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function: and overseeing the relationship with the external and internal auditors.
Introduction from the Audit At the date of the 2016 Annual Report, the Audit Committee comprises Committee Chairman four independent Non-Executive Directors: Colin Rutherford Chair, Imelda Walsh, Stewart Gilliland and Dave Coplin, and two further I am delighted to present, on behalf of the Board, the Non-Executive Directors nominated by substantial shareholders, Ron report of its Audit Committee for the financial year ended Robson and Eddie Irwin.
In accordance with Code provision C. 3.1 the 24 September 2016.
Board considers that Colin Rutherford has significant, recent and I continue to have the benefit of spending valuable time with those relevant financial experience.
Biographies of all of the members of the key individuals throughout the Group who collectively provide an Audit Committee, including a summary of their respective experience, appreciation and rigorous insight into how our Group functions and appear on page 39. reports.
These discussions are extremely valuable and I am grateful Following the appointment of three Independent Non-Executive for the insight which they provide to me.
I am sure this is a significant Directors in April and May 2013, Committee members were appointed factor in the efficient running and operation of the Audit Committees with effect from 11 July 2013, and revised terms of reference were oversight role.
established, in order to comply with Code requirements.
Those terms The Audit Committee continues to engage formally, regularly and of reference are reviewed annually and, during FY 2016, were updated at an appropriate level of detail with our external auditor, other to reflect the consequential changes introduced by the implementation, third-party advisers as necessary and our Group Risk Director.
This in July 2016, of the Market Abuse Regulation.
has enabled the Committee to ensure that it maintains an appropriate The Audit Committee met four times during FY 2016.
In each case, understanding of how our auditors and third-party advisers interact appropriate papers were distributed to the Committee members and with our Group assurance and risk management function which, other invited attendees, including, where and to the extent appropriate, in turn, ensures that these key stakeholders are able to give representatives of the external audit firm and the internal Group comprehensive coverage of both the external and internal audit Assurance function.
process, and confidence in both their respective and collective fieldwork conclusions.
It is also important to note the provision of When appropriate, the Audit Committee augments the skills and sufficient resources by the Company and its subsidiaries to ensuring experiences of its members with advice from internal and external audit any additional assurance is obtained where considered appropriate.
professionals, for example, on matters such as developments in financial All of these efforts provide the Committee with a detailed and clear reporting.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, understanding of the status of the business of the Group and of its by other members of the Board including the Chief Executive and the principal components and, of equal importance, of the overall Finance Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the systems and processes of the Group at all levels.
Group Risk Director and representatives of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The Audit Committee also meets privately not less than twice a year, The role of the Audit Committee continues to focus on challenging without any member of management present, in relation to audit the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, the robustness of matters, with the external auditor.
our Group assurance and risk management process and in assessing the importance of, and acting as required upon, all reported The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee is set out in information received from our auditors, third-party advisers and the Report on Directors remuneration on page 74. from our rigorous internal audit function.
The Committee is committed to maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on audit matters.
Therefore, if you have any comments or questions on any element of the report, please email me, care of Adrian Brannan, Group Risk Director, at adrian.
Colin Rutherford Chairman of the Audit Committee 54 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Summary terms of reference Key activities of the Audit Committee A copy of the Audit Committees terms of reference is publicly Audit matters are reviewed at quarterly Audit Committee meetings available within the Investor section of the Companys website: throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
com pdf audit committee terms.
pdf The Audit Committee commissions reports from external advisers, the Group Risk Director or Company management, either after The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to developing within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires issues.
During the year, in order to fulfil the roles and responsibilities of from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director the Audit Committee, the following matters were considered: or member of management, and all employees are expected to co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the half year and full year financial results: Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional the scope and cost of the external audit: advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise, if it considers this necessary.
The Chair of the Audit the auditors half year and full year reports: Committee reports to the subsequent Board meeting on the Committees reappointment and evaluation of the performance of the auditor, work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
including recommendations to the Board, for approval by The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: shareholders, on the reappointment of the Companys auditor and on the approval of fees and terms of engagement: review the Companys public statements on internal control, risk management and corporate governance compliance: non-audit work carried out by the auditor and trends in the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and safeguarding of audit independence: control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response to any such occurrence: the co-ordination of the activities and the work programmes of the internal and external audit functions: review managements evaluation of any change in internal controls over financial reporting: the arrangements in respect of Group Assurance including its resourcing, external support, the scope of the annual internal audit review with management and the auditor the Company financial plan for FY 2016 regarding the level of achievement and the scope statements required under UK legislation before submission to of the annual internal audit plan for FY 2017: the Board: periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the Assurance: internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, whose objective is to provide independent assurance over the Groups significant the Groups risk management framework for the identification and processes and controls, including those in respect of the Groups control of major risks, its risk and assurance mitigation plan and the key risks: annual assessment of effectiveness of controls: assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, compliance with the Companys Code of Ethics: resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the auditor, including corporate governance developments: review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: the status of material litigation involving the Group: and pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the auditor and the fees to be paid for that work together with the monitoring of the reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing external auditors independence: procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures including a summary of reports received during FY 2016. oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and any confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: and adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for all corporate employees which is consistent with the Companys overall statement of business ethics.
55 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Audit Committee report continued Disclosure of significant issues considered During FY 2016, 16 audit reports were issued by the Group Assurance function and reviewed by the Board or the Audit Committee.
Internal The Audit Committee has reviewed the key judgements applied in audit recommendations are closely monitored through to closure via a the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which are web-based recommendation tracking system, introduced in FY 2013, described in the relevant accounting policies and detailed notes to the which has improved the overall monitoring of internal audit financial statements on pages 90 to 129. recommendations to ensure these are successfully implemented in a The Audit Committees review included consideration of the following timely manner.
A summary of the status of the implementation of internal key accounting judgements: audit recommendations is made monthly to the Executive Committee and quarterly to the Audit Committee.
Property, Plant and Equipment Valuation the assumptions used by management to value the long leasehold and freehold estate including Risk management framework estimated fair maintainable trading levels, brand multiples and use of spot valuations to ensure a consistent valuation methodology is in As disclosed in the Risk and uncertainties section on pages 20 to 24 the place.
A number of key judgements are also applied in calculating Risk Committee continues to meet on a regular basis to review the key risks short leasehold impairment such as trading levels and the use of an facing the business.
The Risk Committee met on six occasions in FY 2016. appropriate discount rate: and Membership of the Risk Committee, which includes representation from each of the key business functions, is detailed below: Pension deficit the pension liability is sensitive to the actuarial assumptions applied in measuring future cash outflows.
The use of Company Secretary and General Counsel Chairman assumptions such as the discount rate and inflation which have an Group Finance Director impact on the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme was assessed by the Audit Committee.
Commercial and Marketing Director Divisional Director Operations Effectiveness of internal audit Group HR Director The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
The Audit Director of Business Change & Technology Committee meets regularly with management and with the Group Risk Group Risk Director Director and the auditor, to review the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and receives reports from the Group Risk Director Senior Legal Counsel on a quarterly basis.
Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis in The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee and terms of their likelihood and impact, within the Groups Key Risk Heat kept under review on a monthly basis, by the Group Risk Director, in Map, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
In addition, order to reflect the changing business needs and to ensure new and the Risk Committees review includes an assessment of the material emerging risks are considered.
The Audit Committee is informed of any relevance of emerging risks and the continued relevance of previously amendments made to the audit plan on a quarterly basis.
During FY 2016, two Risk Committee meetings included internal audit plan was developed through a review of formal risk a new cross-functional, detailed review of the Groups key risks.
This assessments in conjunction with the Risk Committee and the Groups process has proved to be effective and adds value to the continued Executive Committee together with consideration of the Groups key development and progression of the Groups approach to evaluating business processes and functions that could be subject to audit.
A similar new and existing risks, supported by robust mitigation plans.
approach has been employed in relation to the FY 2017 internal audit plan.
Actions arising from Risk Committee meetings are followed up by the The principal objectives of the internal audit plan for FY 2016 were, and Group Risk Director.
The Audit Committee reviews the Risk Committee remain for FY 2017: minutes, in addition to undertaking a quarterly review of the Groups Key Risk Heat Map.
to provide confidence that existing and emerging key risks are being managed effectively: Confidential reporting to confirm that controls over core business functions and processes The Groups whistleblowing policy enables staff, in confidence, to raise are operating as intended core assurance : and concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters and to confirm that major projects and significant business change to do so without fear of reprisal.
Details of the policy are set out in the programmes are being adequately controlled.
The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents and remains satisfied that the procedures in place are satisfactory to enable independent investigation and follow up action of all matters reported.
No major issues have been reported in FY 2016 major issues being defined for this purpose as matters having a financial impact greater than 100k.
56 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 External auditor appointment External audit annual assessment Deloitte LLP was appointed as the auditor in 2011, following a formal The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, tender process.
The Audit Committee has considered the recent resources and independence of the Groups auditor and the overall guidance in relation to rotation including the proposed transition rules effectiveness of the audit process.
The Finance Director, Company which will be considered when recommending the appointment of Secretary and General Counsel, Audit Committee Chairman and Group the auditor in future years.
The Audit Committee considers that the Risk Director meet with the auditor to discuss the audit, significant risks relationship with the auditor is working well and is satisfied with its and any key issues included on the Audit Committees agenda during effectiveness and has not considered it necessary to require Deloitte the year.
LLP to re-tender for the external audit work.
There are no contractual The Company has complied throughout the reporting year with the obligations restricting the Companys choice of auditor.
Following its provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market appointment as auditor, Deloitte LLP was replaced in respect of the Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and provision of internal audit services by  LLP.
External auditors independence Fair, balanced and understandable statement The external auditors should not provide non-audit services where it One of the key governance requirements of the Groups financial might impair their independence or objectivity to do so.
The Audit statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and Committee has established a policy to safeguard the independence and understandable.
Therefore, upon review of the financial statements, the objectivity of the Groups auditor as set out in below.
That policy has Audit Committee and the Board have confirmed that they are satisfied been reviewed in FY 2016 and a copy of it is appended to the Audit with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Annual Report, which Committees terms of reference.
Pursuant to that policy the following is underpinned by the following: services have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee provided that the fees for such services do not exceed in any year more than 70% of formal minutes of the year end working group comprised of relevant the average audit fee paid to that audit firm over the past three years: internal functional representatives and appropriate external advisers: audit services, including work related to the annual Group financial clear guidance being issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent statements, and statutory accounts: and approach: and certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning formal review processes at all levels to ensure the Annual Report is and tax advice.
Acquisition and vendor due-diligence may only be provided if it is specifically approved by the Committee on a case by case basis in Colin Rutherford advance of the engagement commencing.
Any other work for which Chairman of the Audit Committee management wishes to utilise the external auditor must be approved as follows: 21 November 2016 services with fees less than 50,000 may be approved by the Finance Director: and Long-term viability statement See page 24 engagements with fees over 50,000 may be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chair.
The Audit Committee remains confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditor are not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
That policy also includes an extensive list of services which the audit firm may not provide or may only provide in very limited circumstances where the Company and the audit firm agree that there would be no impact on the impartiality of the audit firm.
57 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
