Directors report Share capital The Boards responsibilities in respect of the Company include: The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 24 September 2016 comprised a single class of ordinary shares of which 413,624,294 shares Determining the overall business and commercial strategy were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange 26 September Identifying the Companys long-term objectives 2015 412,520,626 shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are contained within the Companys Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans and Articles of Association.
Of the issued share capital, no shares were held monitoring performance in relation to those plans in treasury and the Companys employee share trusts held 1,584,503 Determining the basis of the allocation of capital shares.
Details of movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 4.7 to the financial statements on page 126.
Each share carries the Considering all policy matters relating to the Companys activities right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The notice of the including any major change of policy Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
For the Companys latest financial information go to: www.
com investors All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations or special rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares in the Company, or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, other than The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and for the year ended 24 September 2016.
The Business review of the regulations and under the Articles of Association.
In addition, pursuant Company and its subsidiaries is given on pages 25 to 27 which, together to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Directors and with the Corporate governance statement and Audit Committee report, certain officers and employees of the Group require the prior approval are incorporated by reference into this report and, accordingly, should be of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
read as part of this report.
Participants in the Share Incentive Plan SIP may complete a Form of Details of the Groups policy on addressing risks are given on pages 20 Instruction which is used by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, the SIP to 24 and 52 and 53, and details about financial instruments are shown in Trustee, as the basis for voting on their behalf.
note 4.4 to the financial statements.
These sections include information During the year, shares with a nominal value of 94,272 were allotted about trends and factors likely to affect the future development and under all-employee schemes as permitted under Section 549 of the performance of the Groups businesses.
The Company undertakes no Companies Act 2006.
No securities were issued in connection with a obligation to update forward-looking statements.
rights issue during the year.
Key performance indicators for the Groups businesses are set out on The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders pages 18 and 19. that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
This report has been prepared under current legislation and guidance in Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued share force at the year end date.
In addition, the material contained on pages 2 capital of the Company as at the year end are on page 78 in the Report to 35 reflects the Directors understanding of the requirement to provide on Directors remuneration.
This report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Dividend Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, An Interim Dividend of 2.5p was paid during the year FY 2015 interim employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to dividend nil, final dividend 5p.
The Board recommends a final dividend any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands for the year ended 24 September 2016 of 5p per share to be paid on it may come or who becomes aware of it and any such responsibility or 7 February 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business on liability is expressly disclaimed.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 7.5p per share FY 2015 5p.
As set out in the Notice of the Annual General Areas of operation Meeting sent to shareholders with this Annual Report, the Company Throughout FY 2016 the Group had activities in, and operated through, will seek authority from its shareholders at that meeting to offer a scrip pubs, bars and restaurants in the United Kingdom and Germany.
dividend alternative to a cash dividend.
More details of that scrip dividend alternative are set out in the explanatory notes which accompany that Notice.
40 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Interests in voting rights agreement with Elpida that is similar to the existing agreement between the Company and Piedmont.
Having taken into account the Financial As at the date of this report, the Company was aware of the following Reporting Councils report of August 2014 Towards Clear & Concise significant holdings of voting rights 3% or more in its shares: Reporting and the views expressed previously by certain of the investor % of representative bodies, the Board considers that such an agreement Shareholder Ordinary shares share capital would be merely one of form rather than substance and not in the Piedmont Inc. 109,970,613 26.58 Direct holding interests of shareholders generally.
As a result, the Board does not propose currently that the Company should enter into such an Elpida Group Limited 95,553,211 23.10 Direct holding agreement with Elpida, and Elpida has not to date sought such an Smoothfield Holding agreement.
The Board considers that the Company is acting in Limited 17,936,260 4.34 Direct holding accordance with good governance principles in working with our Standard Life 45,716,080 11.05 Indirect holding significant long-term shareholders towards our common goals and the achievement of the Companys strategy, with continued stability Using the total voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange for 31 October 2016 of 413,660,130 shares.
Directors Directors indemnity Details of the Directors as at 21 November 2016 and their biographies As permitted by the Articles of Association, each of the Directors has the are shown on pages 38 and 39.
The Directors at 24 September 2016 and benefit of an indemnity, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity as their interests in shares are shown on page 78.
Phil Urban, Josh Levy, defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity was Dave Coplin and Keith Browne were appointed as Directors on in force throughout the tenure of each Director during the last financial 27 September 2015, 13 November 2015, 29 February 2016 and year, and is currently in force.
Such an indemnity was put in place on the 22 September 2016 respectively.
Douglas McMahon, a nominated appointment of each of Phil Urban, Josh Levy, Dave Coplin and Keith Director of Piedmont Inc. stepped down from the Board on 13 November Browne.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the 2015.
There were no other changes to the Board of Directors during the financial year Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself year nor subsequent to the year end, up to the date of this report.
No indemnity is provided for the Companys auditor.
The Company is governed by its Articles of Association and the Articles of Association Companies Act 2006 and related legislation in relation to the appointment and removal of Directors.
The powers of the Companys The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association which are in Conflicts of interest line with best practice guidance of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors will retire at the AGM.
Dave Coplin and Keith Browne The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider will offer themselves for election for the first time and all the other and, if it sees fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest that Directors will offer themselves for re-election.
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for Under a Deed of Appointment between Piedmont Inc. and the Directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation Company, Piedmont Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
Directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% or more of the issued share In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted capital of the Company, and the right to appoint one shareholder Directors are required to act in the way they consider would be most Director to the Board whilst it owns more than 16% of the Company likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of all but less than 22%.
In the event that Piedmont Inc. owns less than 16% shareholders, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving of the Company any such shareholder Directors would be required to authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and The Companys two largest shareholders, Piedmont Inc. and Elpida considering Situational Conflicts continue to operate effectively.
Group Limited, have nominated representatives on the Board.
Piedmonts appointment rights are formalised in the Deed of Related party transactions Appointment referred to in this report but there is no equivalent agreement in place between the Company and Elpida.
The Elpida Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions representatives were appointed with the approval of the Board in involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an March 2012 and September 2016.
The Board has carefully arms-length basis and are properly recorded.
considered whether it would be appropriate to enter into a formal 41 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors report continued Change of control provisions The Group is responsive to the needs of its employees.
As such, should any employee of the Group become disabled during their time with us, There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling we will actively retrain that employee and make reasonable adjustments other parties to such agreements to exercise termination or other rights to their environment where possible, in order to keep the employee with in the event of a change of control of the Company.
There are no provisions in the Directors or employees service agreements providing for compensation for loss of office or employment Employee engagement occurring because of a takeover.
Mitchells & Butlers engages with its employees continuously and in a The trustee of the Companys SIP will invite participants on whose number of ways to suit their different working patterns.
This includes: behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote in respect of those shares, line manager briefings: and, if there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of control of the Company, participants may direct it to communications forums and roadshows held by functions or brands accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
The trustee of the Mitchells across the Company: & Butlers Employee Benefit Trust may, having consulted with the a dedicated intranet for the Retail Support Team: Company, vote or abstain from voting in respect of any shares it holds or accept or reject an offer relating to shares in any way it sees fit, and it a dedicated portal, OurHub, for retail employees: may take all or any of the following matters into account: the long-term email news alerts: interests of beneficiaries, the non-financial interests of beneficiaries, the interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former focus groups: employees, the interests of future beneficiaries and considerations of weekly bulletins specifically targeted at retail house managers and a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
mobile workers: The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include provisions employee social media groups: and which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, as set out below.
a monthly magazine poster, Frontline News, for the retail estate.
Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover Details of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance or reconstruction of the Company are shared with all employees at the appropriate time using the methods listed above.
Share plan Provision in the event of a takeover 2013 Performance Restricted Awards vest pro rata to We provide opportunities for employees to give their feedback to the Share Plan performance and time elapsed Company in a number of ways, from team or shift meetings in restaurants and lapse six months later and pubs and engagement surveys for all employees to the Mitchells & Butlers annual Business Forum.
Business Forum representatives collect 2013 Short Term Deferred Bonus shares may be released or questions from employees across the Company and put them to Incentive Plan exchanged for shares in the new members of the Executive Committee.
The questions and answers controlling company are published in Frontline News and online.
Sharesave Plan and 2013 Options may be exercised within Whats the Big Idea?
is a Company-wide initiative where employees Sharesave Plan six months of a change of control are encouraged to submit their ideas for improving the business, environmentally, financially or otherwise, via our dedicated Share Incentive Plan and 2013 Free shares may be released or employee website.
Share Incentive Plan exchanged for shares in the new controlling company In summer 2016, the business implemented its STAR programme, a universal training needs analysis and learning resource for all retail roles.
STAR is supported by coaching material that has been produced for Employment policies every technical task associated with a job in hospitality, the visual training library enables our teams to access up to date and relevant information The Group employed an average of 44,463 people in FY 2016 FY 2015 from any hand held or desk top device, and a progress report enables 44,492.
Through its diversity policy, the Company seeks to ensure that every member of the organisation to understand the skills and progress every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that of our people.
all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
Mitchells & Butlers operates the Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses Our policies and procedures fully support our disabled colleagues.
The policy requires that any guest attempting We take active measures to do so via: to buy alcohol who appears under the age of 21, must provide an a robust reasonable adjustment policy: acceptable form of proof of age ID to confirm that they are over 18, before they can be served.
This policy forms part of our regular training disability-specific online resources accessible via the Groups online for our employees on their responsibilities for serving alcohol.
recruitment system : and processes to ensure colleagues are fully supported.
42 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee involvement Going concern in the Groups performance through share ownership.
It operates four The financial statements which appear on pages 82 to 138 have been HMRC approved all-employee plans, which are the Sharesave Plan, prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have reviewed the the 2013 Sharesave Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and the 2013 Share Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its Incentive Plan which include Partnership shares.
The Company also financial risk management objectives: its financial instruments and operates two other plans on a selective basis, which are the 2013 hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Performance Restricted Share Plan and the 2013 Short Term Deferred The Groups financing is based on securitised debt and unsecured bank Incentive Plan.
Further details on the plans are set out in the Report on facilities and, within this context, a robust review has been undertaken Directors remuneration.
of projected performance against all financial covenants.
As a result of During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom limits this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the rules of the has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the above plans.
The Company uses an employee benefit trust to acquire foreseeable future.
See section 1 of the financial statements on page 95 shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy share awards in order to for the Companys going concern statement, and page 24 for the manage headroom under the plan rules.
During FY 2016, the employee Companys long-term viability statement.
benefit trust purchased 270,000 shares in the Company.
Annual General Meeting Political donations The notice convening the Annual General Meeting is contained in a The Company made no political donations during the year and intends circular sent to shareholders with this report and includes full details of to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, as the resolutions proposed.
a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at its 2017 AGM to make limited donations or Auditor incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of using Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor the authority.
of the Company and its reappointment will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Funding and liquidity risk In order to ensure that the Groups long-term funding strategy is aligned Post-balance sheet events with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly assesses There are no post-balance sheet events to report.
the maturity profile of the Groups debt, alongside the prevailing financial projections and three year plan.
This enables it to ensure that funding Disclosure of information to auditor levels are appropriate to support the Groups plans.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of the there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the securitised notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and associated liquidity facility and 150m of unsecured committed bank each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make facilities.
Further information regarding these arrangements is included themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that in note 4.2 to the financial statements on page 113.
The terms of the the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
securitisation and the bank facilities contain a number of financial and operational covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored by Group Treasury.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six-week The Group generates GHG emissions throughout its estate of bars and period and an annual cash forecast by period.
These forecasts are restaurants for heating, cooling, lighting and catering, including the reviewed on a daily basis and used to manage the investment and refrigeration and preparation of food and drink.
borrowing requirements of the Group.
A combination of cash pooling GHG emissions per m turnover were reduced by 8.91% during the and zero balancing agreements are in place to ensure the optimum 2015 16 tax year in comparison to 2014 15 in response to a range of liquidity position is maintained.
Committed facilities outside of the behavioural change activities and ongoing investment in increasing the securitisation are sized to ensure that the Group can meet its mediumenergy efficiency of our buildings and equipment.
term anticipated cash flow requirements.
43 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors report continued Assessment parameters Assessment year 2015 16 Tax Year Consolidation approach Financial control Boundary summary All bars and restaurants either owned or under operational control during the 2015 16 tax year were included.
Scope General classifications of greenhouse gas emissions scopes based on the GHG protocol and ISO14064-1:2006 within the context of the Groups operations are as follows: Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Group, e. g. fuel combustion of varying types, occurs during kitchen activity and to generate heating and domestic hot water most commonly through natural grid supplied gas, but also some LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas and oil.
Real fires fuelled by logs or coal are also used to supplement customer comfort and enhance ambience.
Scope 2 GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity used during kitchen activity and for lighting, heating and cooling.
Scope 3 indirect emissions as a consequence of the activities of the Group, but occurring from sources not owned or controlled by the Group.
This assessment focuses on scope 1 and 2 emissions only scope 3 is optional under the current regulations.
Consistency with the financial statements Scope 1 and 2 emissions are reported for the 2015 16 and 2014 15 tax years to retain consistency with reporting of our carbon emissions under the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from sites with landlord supplies are not included in the CRC submission.
Franchise sites are excluded as they are responsible for arranging and paying for their own energy.
Alex sites in Germany are included.
Emissions are based on UK average emissions multiplied by the number of Alex sites.
Exclusions Scope 1 Vehicle fleet emissions are excluded as they have been calculated to account for 1% total emissions which falls below the materiality threshold.
Scope 1 Fugitive emissions within refrigeration and cooling equipment are not included as detailed records are not yet held.
Outside of scope Logs are outside of scope because the scope 1 impact of these fuels has been determined to be a net 0.
However, the CO e 2 value of logs has been calculated to be 1% and would be excluded in any case as this falls below the materiality threshold.
Emission factor data source All carbon emission factors used are consistent with details provided in the respective Carbon Reduction Commitment submissions.
Assessment methodology Defra Environmental Guidelines 2013.
Materiality threshold All emission types estimated to contribute 1% of total emissions are included.
Intensity threshold Emissions are stated in tonnes CO e per m revenue.
This intensity ratio 2 puts emissions into context given the scale of the Groups activities and enables comparison with prior year performance.
Target Emissions during the 2014 15 tax year are provided for comparative purposes.
44 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 2014 15 2015 16 Change from previous year % movement in Greenhouse gas emissions source tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m tCO e m 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 95,771 47.7 95,474 45.7 297 2.0 4.19% Scope 2 217,461 108.3 201,584 96.4 15,877 11.9 10.99% Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 313,232 156.0 297,058 142.1 16,174 13.9 8.91% Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006.
Modern Slavery Act 2015 In accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, the Board has approved and the Company has accordingly published its compliance statement on its website.
This can be accessed at www.
com By order of the Board Greg McMahon Company Secretary and General Counsel 21 November 2016 45 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
