Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Corporate governance statement The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business and details are set out in this statement of the Companys corporate governance procedures and application of the principles of the Code.
There are, however, a small number of areas where, for reasons specifically related to the Company, the detailed provisions of the Code were not fully complied with in FY 2016.
These areas are kept under regular review.
A fundamental aspect of the Code is that it contains best practice recommendations in relation to corporate governance yet acknowledges that, in individual cases, these will not all necessarily be appropriate for particular companies.
Accordingly, the Code specifically recognises the Corporate governance statement concept of Comply or Explain in relation to divergences from the Code.
This corporate governance statement sets out our report to shareholders on the status of our corporate governance Compliance with the Code arrangements.
Except for the matters which are explained below in line with the The Board is responsible for ensuring that the activities of the Comply or Explain concept, the Company complied fully with the Mitchells & Butlers Group and its various businesses are conducted principles and provisions of the Code throughout the financial year in in compliance with the law, regulatory requirements and rules, good respect of which this statement is prepared and continues to do so as practices, ethically and with appropriate and proper governance and at the date of this statement.
This includes reviewing internal controls, ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience represented Explanation for non-compliance with parts of the Code on the Board and compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate During the year, there were four divergences from full compliance Governance Code the Code, which is issued by the Financial with the Code as set out below by reference to specific paragraphs in Reporting Council and which is available at www.
uk, and the Code: for maintaining appropriate relations with shareholders.
1.2 Composition of the Board and B.
2.1, C. 3.1 The Company is reporting against the 2014 edition of the Code which and D. 2.1 Constitution of Committees was published in September 2014 and applies to reporting periods During the year, Code Provision B.
1.2, which requires that at least half beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
In 2015 we reported against of the Board be made up of independent Non-Executive Directors the 2012 edition of the Code, and the key changes between the two excluding the Chairman, was not complied with.
Accordingly, this had Codes relate to going concern and statements relating to the consequential implications on the composition of the standing Board Companys long-term viability, risk management and internal control, Committees.
During the year, one non-independent Non-Executive remuneration and shareholder engagement following significant Director resigned and three new Non-Executive Directors were votes against a resolution.
The Board adopted some of the provisions appointed, one of whom is regarded as an independent Non-Executive in the 2014 Code earlier than required.
Additionally, an Executive Director was appointed.
The latest financial information for Mitchells & Butlers and its group of While the Board does not comply fully with the requirement for at least companies is included in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts of which this half of its members to be independent, it recognises and values the corporate governance statement forms part and which are available online at: presence of representatives of its major shareholders on the Board and www.
com investors welcomes the interest shown by them in the Company as a whole.
The Board will continue to work closely with the representatives of its The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
major shareholders to further the interests of the Company.
I am delighted to be able to report that the Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 24 September The possibility of appointing a further independent Non-Executive 2016 with all the provisions and best practice guidance of the Code Director remains a matter for the Nomination Committee to review except those in respect of Board composition and constitution of the and is considered regularly.
Throughout FY 2016, the Company had Board Committees.
This corporate governance statement addresses and continues to have fully functioning Nomination, Audit and the small number of areas where, for reasons specific to Mitchells & Remuneration Committees as required by the Code.
The Committees Butlers, there are divergences from the Code as described below.
are not fully compliant with the relevant provisions of paragraphs B.
2.1, C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code in that they include the presence of The Audit Committee report and Nomination Committee report representatives of major shareholders.
Nevertheless, the Board values which are set out on pages 54 to 57 and pages 50 and 51 respectively the contribution of those shareholder representatives on those of the Annual Report also form part of this corporate governance Committees, does not consider this to be an impediment to good statement and they should all be considered together.
governance and looks forward to continuing to work with them on matters affecting the Group and its activities in the future.
Bob Ivell The information required by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Chairman Rule DGTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 57.
The information required by DGTR 7.2 is set out in this corporate governance statement, other than that required under DGTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the Directors report on pages 40 to 45.
47 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued Board composition Attendance levels at Board and Committee meetings The Board started the year with nine Directors including Phil Urban Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee who was appointed at the start of FY 2016.
One Director resigned Directors who served during the year Douglas McMahon and four were appointed Phil Urban, Josh Levy, Dave Coplin and Keith Browne, ending the year with eleven Directors.
Bob Ivell 11 11 n a 5 5 2 2 The table lists the composition of the Board during the year.
Keith Browne appointed The Board 22 September 2016 1 1 n a n a n a Dave Coplin The Board is responsible to all stakeholders, including its shareholders, appointed for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.
29 February 2016 7 7 2 2 3 3 1 1 It approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance of past Stewart Gilliland 11 11 4 4 5 5 2 2 investments and maintains an overview and control of the Groups Eddie Irwin 11 11 4 4 5 5 2 2 operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall Tim Jones 11 11 n a n a n a system of internal controls, governance and compliance and ensures Josh Levy that the necessary financial, technical and human resources are in appointed place for the Company to meet its objectives.
13 November 2016 10 10 n a n a n a During FY 2016 there were 11 scheduled Board meetings.
There 1 Douglas McMahon were also four meetings of the Audit Committee, five meetings of resigned the Remuneration Committee and two meetings of the Nomination 13 November 2015 1 n a n a n a Committee.
The table shows attendance levels at the Board and 2 Ron Robson 10 11 3 4 5 5 1 2 Committee meetings held during the year: the numbers in brackets Colin Rutherford 11 11 4 4 5 5 2 2 confirm how many meetings each Director was eligible to attend Phil Urban during the year.
appointed Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting whether of the 27 September 2015 11 11 n a n a n a Board or one of its Committees, they were provided with all the papers Imelda Walsh 11 11 4 4 5 5 2 2 and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising direct with the Chairman of the Board or Chair of the relevant Where a Director was prevented from attending a meeting due to travel difficulties or Committee.
In addition, the Board members meet more informally clashes with other business commitments, in each case the Director concerned provided comments on the matters to be considered to the Chairman, another Director or the approximately four times a year and the Chairman and the NonCompany Secretary.
Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors twice a year.
Mr McMahon did not attend one Board meeting during the year but Mr Robson, the There are 10 Board meetings currently planned for FY 2017. other representative to the Board nominated by Piedmont Inc. did attend that meeting.
Mr Robson did not attend one Board, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good meeting during the year but Mr Levy, the other representative to the Board nominated information flows to the Board and between senior management and by Piedmont Inc. did attend the respective meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible, through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their professional development.
This includes regular corporate governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational site visits and the provision of external courses where required.
The Company Secretary facilitates a comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual requirements and including guidance on the requirements of, and Directors duties in connection with, the Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.
In FY 2016, the Company Secretary also co-ordinated an internal performance evaluation of the Board.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
48 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Directors All the Companys Directors are required to stand for annual re-election or, in the case of Dave Coplin and Keith Browne, election for the first The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended time following their appointment at the Companys Annual General 24 September 2016: Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Date Date of Their biographical details as at 21 November 2016 are set out on appointed change of role page 39, including their main commitments outside the Company.
Directors who served during the year The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Bob Ivell Independent NonNon-Executive Director appointment with the Boards prior approval 1 Executive Director 09 05 11 14 07 11 and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
1 Interim Chairman 14 07 11 26 10 11 Executive Chairman 26 10 11 12 11 12 Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman 12 11 12 In accordance with provision A.
2.1 of the Code, the roles of Chairman 2 Keith Browne Non-Executive Director 22 9 16 and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
Dave Coplin Independent NonThe division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Director 29 2 16 Executive are clearly established and set out in writing and agreed by Stewart Gilliland Independent Nonthe Board.
In particular, it has been agreed in writing that the Chairman Executive Director 23 05 13 shall be responsible for running the Board and shall provide advice and Senior Independent assistance to the Chief Executive.
He also chairs the Nomination Director 02 02 15 Committee, is a member of the Remuneration Committee and attends, 2 by invitation, meetings of the Audit Committee.
He also chairs the Eddie Irwin Non-Executive Director 21 03 12 Market Disclosure Committee and the Property Committee.
3 Josh Levy Non-Executive Director 13 11 15 It is also agreed in writing that the Chief Executive has responsibility for Tim Jones Finance Director 18 10 10 4 all aspects of the Groups overall commercial, operational and strategic Douglas McMahon Non-Executive Director 15 10 10 n a development.
He chairs the Executive Committee details of which 3 Ron Robson Non-Executive Director 22 01 10 appear on page 51 and attends the Nomination, Remuneration and Deputy Chairman 14 07 11 Audit Committee by invitation, not necessarily for the entirety of such Colin Rutherford Independent Nonmeetings depending upon the subject matter.
He is also a member of Executive Director 22 04 13 both the Market Disclosure Committee and the Property Committee.
Phil Urban Chief Executive 27 9 15 All other Executive Directors currently just the Finance Director and all Imelda Walsh Independent Nonother members of the Executive Committee report to the Chief Executive.
Independent while in the role specified.
Nominated shareholder representative of Elpida Group Limited.
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that the Chairman 3.
Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. should, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in 4.
Bob Ivell met these independence criteria on appointment.
On 27 September 2015, Phil Urban was appointed to the Board and as Chief Executive of the Company.
Bob Ivell was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman on 26 October 2011 on the departure of the then Chief Executive and reverted to the On 13 November 2015, Douglas McMahon stepped down from the role of Non-Executive Chairman on 12 November 2012.
Board and Josh Levy was appointed to the Board.
Josh Levy is a nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc.
The Chairman ensures that appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
He ensures that all Directors are fully informed of On 29 February 2016, Dave Coplin was appointed as an independent matters relevant to their roles.
On 22 September 2016, Keith Browne was appointed to the Board.
Chief Executive He is a nominated shareholder representative of Elpida Group Limited.
Phil Urban was appointed Chief Executive on 27 September 2015 At the start of the year, the Board was made up of eight male and one following the resignation on 26 September 2015 of Alistair Darby.
At the end of the year the Board was made up of ten As indicated above, the Chief Executive has responsibility for male and one female members.
implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive The Executive Directors have service contracts which are summarised management of the Group.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
Copies of the respective service contracts Senior Independent Director or letters of appointment of all the Board are on the Companys website.
Stewart Gilliland was appointed to the role of Senior Independent In addition, they are available for inspection at the registered office of the Director on 2 February 2015.
Company during normal business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
49 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued The Senior Independent Director supports the Chairman in the delivery Committees of the Boards objectives and ensures that the views of all major Each Board Committee has written terms of reference approved by the shareholders and stakeholders are conveyed to the Board.
Stewart Board, which are available on the Companys website.
Those terms of Gilliland is available to all shareholders should they have any concerns if reference are each reviewed annually by the relevant Committee to the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director ensure they remain appropriate.
have failed to resolve them, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with Non-Executive Audit Committee Directors, without the Chairman present, at least annually, and conducts Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year are the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
included in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 57 which is incorporated by reference into this statement.
Non-Executive Directors The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its Board.
Remuneration Committee Bob Ivell was considered to be independent upon his appointment on Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during the year 9 May 2011 in that he was free from any business or other relationship are included in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 58 to 81. with the Company which could materially influence his judgement and he continues to represent a strong source of advice and independent Nomination Committee challenge.
Since his appointment as Chairman on 14 July 2011 the independence test, as set out in the Code, is no longer applicable to his The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the current position.
approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning for the Board and the Executive Ron Robson and Douglas McMahon were appointed to the Board as Committee and reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
representatives of one of the Companys largest shareholders, Piedmont Inc. and were therefore not regarded as independent in accordance During the year, the Nomination Committee considered the composition with the Code.
Douglas McMahon stepped down from the Board on of the Board, the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors and 13 November 2015, and was replaced by Josh Levy, who is also a commissioned the  Board effectiveness review.
nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc.
The Nomination Committee agrees the importance of having diversity Eddie Irwin was appointed to the Board as a representative of another on the Board, including female representation and individuals with of the Companys largest shareholders, Elpida Group Limited and is different experiences, skill sets and expertise, so as to maintain an therefore not regarded as independent in accordance with the Code.
appropriate balance within the Company and on the Board.
Keith Browne was appointed as an additional representative of Elpida Board Diversity Policy Group Limited on 22 September 2016 and he likewise is not regarded During 2015 the Nomination Committee recommended, and the Board as independent.
The key statement and objectives There are currently four independent Non-Executive Directors on the of that policy are as follows: Board: Stewart Gilliland, Colin Rutherford, Imelda Walsh and Dave Coplin.
Statement: Other than their fees, and reimbursement of taxable expenses which The Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, are disclosed on page 74, the Non-Executive Directors received no background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and remuneration from the Company during the year.
gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken into consideration When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment, the when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding Board takes into account their other responsibilities in assessing whether the foregoing, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
Objectives: Board information and training The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
All Board All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated appointments will be made on merit while taking into account in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at those meetings, in individual competence, skills and expertise measured against addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding identified objective criteria including consideration of diversity.
of the Groups business is enhanced by business specific presentations and operational visits to the Groups businesses.
Separate strategy The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are meetings and meetings with senior Executives are also held throughout sufficiently experienced and independent of character and judgement.
The Nomination Committee will discuss and agree measurable The training needs of Directors are formally considered on an annual objectives for achieving diversity on the Board with due regard being basis and are also monitored throughout the year with appropriate given to the recommendations set out in the Davies Report and the training being provided as required, including corporate social UK Corporate Governance Code, provision B.
These will be responsibility and corporate governance as well as the environmental reviewed on an annual basis.
impacts of the Companys activities.
50 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Progress against the policy: Executive Committee The Board continues to monitor progress against this policy.
In terms The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, of Board diversity, the appointment of Imelda Walsh in 2013 makes consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior Executives, the proportion of women on the Board 9% as at the year ended namely Gary John Group Property Director, Susan Martindale Group 24 September 2016.
Any future appointments will always be made on HR Director, Greg McMahon Company Secretary and General merit and will continue to take into account diversity, not only in terms of Counsel, Chris Hopkins Commercial Director and Susan Chappell, gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of skills and experience.
Nick Crossley, Dennis Deare and Rob Pitcher all Divisional Directors.
Details of the Mitchells & Butlers Diversity Policy, which applies to The Executive Committee meets at least every six weeks and has diversity in relation to employees of Mitchells & Butlers plc, can be found day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It in the corporate social responsibility section on pages 28 to 31. develops the Groups strategy and annual revenue and capital budgets for A detailed description of the duties of the Nomination Committee is Board approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant set out within its terms of reference which can be viewed at investment proposals.
This Committee monitors the financial and www.
com investors businessconduct boardcommittees operational performance of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the The following were members of the Nomination Committee during Group has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management the year: manpower planning and succession plans.
The actions arising from the Appointment Member at Executive Committee are supplied to the Board for information in order date 24 09 16 that Board members can keep abreast of operational developments.
Bob Ivell Chair 11 07 13 Y Phil Urban has ultimate responsibility for employment related issues Dave Coplin 29 02 16 Y and he also oversees matters relating to human rights including the Stewart Gilliland 11 07 13 Y implementation of the Modern Slavery Act throughout the Group.
Eddie Irwin 11 07 13 Y General Purposes Committee Ron Robson 11 07 13 Y Colin Rutherford 11 07 13 Y The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer Imelda Walsh 11 07 13 Y from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always During the year, the Company did not comply with provision B.
2.1 of chaired by an Executive Director.
It attends to business of a routine the Code because the Nomination Committee was not comprised of a nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
not fully compliant in that it includes the presence of representatives of major shareholders.
Property Committee Nevertheless, for the reasons already stated, the Board does not In October 2016 the Board established a Property Committee to review consider this to be an impediment to good governance and looks property transactions which have been reviewed and recommended by forward to continuing to work constructively with the representatives the Portfolio Development Committee, without the need for submission nominated by its major shareholders in relation to all the matters and of transactions to the full Board.
The Property Committee will agree to issues to be addressed by the Nomination Committee and the Board the overall strategic direction for the management of the Groups in connection with the Company in the future.
property portfolio on a half-yearly basis and may decide that a particular transaction should be referred to the Mitchells & Butlers plc Board for Market Disclosure Committee consideration or approval.
The Property Committee comprises Bob Ivell Committee Chair, Phil Urban, Tim Jones, Josh Levy, Keith Browne, The EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR took effect in July 2016 and Colin Rutherford, Stewart Gilliland and Gary John.
brought about substantial changes relating to announcements of material information about the Company and its affairs, and relating to dealings Portfolio Development Committee in shares or other securities by Directors and other senior managers, including tighter controls on permitted dealings during closed periods The executive review of property transactions and capital allocation to and the handling of information relating to the Company.
MAR requires significant property matters such as site remodel and conversion plans companies to keep a list of people affected and the previous compliance and the Companys real estate strategy is carried out by the Portfolio regime and timeframe were enhanced.
This is not a formal Board Committee but is comprised of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group In the light of these new requirements, it was decided to establish a new Property Director and the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
formal standing Committee of the Board.
This Committee, called the It has delegated authority to approve certain transactions up to Market Disclosure Committee, is comprised of the Chairman, the Chief agreed financial limits and, above those authority levels, it makes Executive, the Finance Director and an independent non-executive recommendations to the Board or, from October 2016, to the Director, currently Colin Rutherford.
51 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement continued Treasury Committee The Company takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and has developed an extensive Bribery Policy.
The Ethics Code requires The treasury operations of the Mitchells & Butlers Group are operated employees to comply with the Bribery Policy.
on a centralised basis under the control of the Group Treasury department.
Although not a formal Board Committee, the Treasury The Company also offers an independently administered, confidential Committee, which reports to the Finance Director but is subject to whistleblowing hotline for any employee wishing to report any concern oversight from the Audit Committee and, ultimately, the Board, has that they feel would be inappropriate to raise with their line manager.
day-to-day responsibility for: All whistleblowing allegations are reported to, and considered by, the Executive Committee and a summary report with details of any major liquidity management: concerns is supplied to, and considered by, the Audit Committee at investment of surplus cash: each meeting.
funding, cash and banking arrangements: The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical matters concerning the Company through regular reports to the Board interest rate and currency risk management: and presentations to the Board at its strategy meetings.
The Board has guarantees, bonds, indemnities and any financial encumbrances noted the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act in relation to supply including charges on assets: and chain management and has taken steps during FY 2016 to comply with its disclosure requirements.
The Companys compliance statement relationships with Banks and other market counterparties such as in relation to the Modern Slavery Act can be viewed on the Companys credit rating agencies.
com The Treasury Committee also works closely with the financial accounting Directors training includes environmental, social and governance ESG department to review the impact of changes in relevant accounting matters and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that practices and to ensure that treasury activities are disclosed appropriately Directors are made aware of and receive regular training in respect of in the Companys accounts.
The Chief Executive, Phil Urban, is ultimately The Board delegates the monitoring of treasury activity and compliance to responsible for ESG matters.
The Board is responsible for the Companys the Treasury Committee.
It is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness internal risk management system, in respect of which more details can of treasury policies and making proposals for any changes to policies or in be found in the Risks and uncertainties section of this report, and in the respect of the utilisation of new instruments.
The approval of the Board, following section of this statement.
or a designated committee thereof, is required for any such proposals.
Internal control and risk management Independent advice The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order furtherance of their duties and the Board has agreed a formal process to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures for such advice to be made available.
Members of the Board also have necessary to apply the Code for the year under review and to the date of access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and General approval of the Annual Report.
Such procedures are regularly reviewed Counsel, the Companys legal and other professional advisers and its by the Audit Committee.
The terms of engagement of the Companys external The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management advisers and its external auditor are regularly reviewed by the Company systems include: Secretary and General Counsel.
Processes, including monitoring by the Board, in respect of: Code of Ethics i. financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, accounting and reporting framework: The Company has implemented business conduct guidelines ii.
strategic plan achievement: describing the standards of behaviour expected from those working for iii.
capital investment and asset management performance, the Company in the form of a code of ethics the Ethics Code.
Its aim with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment is to promote honest and ethical conduct throughout our business.
reviews: and The Ethics Code requires: iv.
consumer insight data and actions to assess the evolution compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply to the of brands and formats to ensure that they continue to be Company and its officers including compliance with the requirements appealing and relevant to the Groups guests.
of the Bribery Act 2010: An overall governance framework including: the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between i. clearly defined delegations of authority and reporting lines: internal and external, personal and professional relationships: and ii.
a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that employees that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved in advance by are required to follow: and appropriate senior management, with a presumption against its iii.
the Groups Ethics Code, in respect of which an annual acceptance.
confirmation of compliance is sought from all corporate employees.
52 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee, With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure against which assists the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the Committee in managing the processes for identifying, evaluating, type and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance from monitoring and mitigating risks.
The Risk Committee, which met six an external independent broker, bearing in mind the availability of such times during FY 2016, is chaired by the Company Secretary and cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
General Counsel and comprises Executive Committee members The Company carried out a full tender process in respect of its insurance and other members of senior management from a cross-section of brokerage adviser in FY 2015 and, following the appointment of a new functions.
Its primary responsibilities are to: broker, the Company has successfully developed and implemented a new insurance programme in FY 2016. i. advise the Executive Committee on the Companys overall risk appetite and risk strategy, taking account of the current Shareholder relations and prospective operating, legal, macroeconomic and financial environments: The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the ii.
advise the Executive Committee on the current and emerging performance and activities of the Company.
The Company regularly risk exposures of the Company in the context of the overall risk updates the market on its financial performance, at the half year and full appetite and risk strategy: year results in May and November respectively, and by way of other iii.
promote the management of risk throughout the organisation: announcements as required.
The content of these updates is available iv.
review and monitor the Companys capability and processes to by webcast on the Companys website, together with general identify and manage risks: information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
v. consider the identified key risks faced by the Company and new The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its larger and emerging risks and consider the adequacy of mitigation plans shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the basis in respect of such risks: and of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
where mitigation plans are inadequate, recommend On a more informal basis, the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Finance improvement actions.
Director regularly report to the Board the views of larger shareholders The Groups risks identified by the processes that are managed by the about the Company, and the other Non-Executive Directors are available Risk Committee are described in Risks and uncertainties on pages 20 to meet shareholders on request and are offered the opportunity to to 24.
More details of the work of the Risk Committee are included in attend meetings with larger shareholders.
During the year the Chairman, the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 57. accompanied by the Head of Investor Relations, held one governance meeting with an institutional investor.
Examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports from the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, which The AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders, many of reports directly to the Audit Committee.
whom are also guests in our pubs, bars and restaurants.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the The Group also has in place systems, including policies and procedures, balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems, policies Board effectiveness evaluation and Chairmans and procedures: evaluation and appraisal govern the maintenance of accounting records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions: During FY 2015, the Board carried out an  self-evaluation review.
Following this, during FY 2016, the Nomination require reported information to be reviewed and reconciled, with Committee commissioned an internal self-evaluation review in which monitoring by the Audit Committee and the Board: and the Board continued to review the effectiveness of individual Directors.
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as The conclusions of that review have been reported on to the Board and necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in appropriate actions relating to adjustments and improvements to the way accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in which the Directors, the Board and its Committees interact have been or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, as appropriate.
None of these constitute significant changes to the pre-existing operational practices of the Board or its Committees but, In accordance with the Code, during the year the Audit Committee rather, fall within the ambit of continuous review and evolution.
completed and reported to the Board its conclusions in respect of its annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and The Senior Independent Director, Stewart Gilliland, has led the process internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance for the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance with the controls.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as and the conclusions were fed back to the Chairman.
such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Annual reviews of the Chairmans performance will continue to be material misstatement or loss.
In that context, in the opinion of the Audit conducted as required by the Code.
Further, the Board Effectiveness Committee, the review did not indicate that the system was ineffective Review included an assessment of the Chairman and his fulfilment of or unsatisfactory and to the extent that weaknesses in internal controls his role.
were identified, the Audit Committee confirmed that necessary remedial action plans were in place.
The Audit Committee is not aware of any Going concern change to this status up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Directors statement as to the status of the Company as a going concern can be found on page 43.
53 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
