Audit Committee Key responsibilities of the Audit Committee The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its Half-Year Report and the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and estimates and judgements having regard to matters communicated to it by the external auditor: reviewing summary financial statements, significant financial returns to regulators and any financial information contained in certain other documents, such as announcements of a price sensitive nature: Mark Reckitt reviewing the Half-Year Report and Annual Report and Chairmans introduction Accounts, including the fair, balanced and understandable The primary role of the Audit Committee is to oversee and statement, statements concerning internal controls and assist the Board in its responsibility to approve a set of fair, risk management, all other material information presented balanced and understandable group Annual Report and with the financial statements including the strategic report, Accounts.
The accounts should provide the information the annual viability statement, the corporate governance necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys statements insofar as they relate to the audit and strategy, business model and financial performance risk management, and recommending the same for throughout the year.
Board approval: The Committee ensures that the group has in place effective keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness financial governance in respect of the groups financial of the groups internal financial controls and internal results, the performance of both the Internal Audit function control and risk management systems being the systems and the external auditor, and the management of the established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial groups systems of internal control, business risks and other risks : management and related compliance activities.
providing advice on how, taking into account the Companys Audit Committee members position and principal risks, the Companys prospects have Mark Reckitt succeeded David Jenkins as Chairman of the been assessed, over what period, why the period is regarded Committee on 14 July 2015.
Mark continues to be deemed as appropriate and whether there is a reasonable expectation by the Board, as at the date of this report, to have significant, that the Company will be able to continue in operation and recent and relevant financial experience through his meet its liabilities as they fall due over the said period, drawing qualifications and ongoing positions.
Marks biography is attention to any qualifications or assumptions as necessary, included on page 63 and in the Notice of AGM.
Crawford reviewing, and challenging where necessary accounting Gillies was also a member of the Committee during the year policies and key areas of accounting judgement: until his retirement from the Board in July.
reviewing the external auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: At the date of this report, the Audit Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered assessing the effectiveness of the external auditor including appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
the appropriateness and skills of its audit team and the quality of its services: Chairman Mark Reckitt agreeing the audit fee for the year: Committee members Jack Boyer considering and making recommendations to the Board, to Larry Hirst be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the groups Key purpose of the Audit Committee external auditor: The Audit Committee provides effective governance over the appropriateness of the groups financial reporting, and ensuring the groups compliance with the Competition the performance of both the Internal and External Audit and Markets Authorities Statutory Audit Services Order, functions.
The Committee also oversees the groups internal in particular with regard to audit tender: control systems, business risks management and related reviewing and monitoring compliance with the Non-Audit compliance activities.
Services Policy and maintenance of auditor independence: The Committee meets with the external auditor and the reviewing the groups consolidated risk register prior to its Head of Internal Audit without the Executive Directors approval by the Board: present.
As Chairman of the Committee, Mark Reckitt will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
70 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, groups internal audit function, reviewing the internal audit is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the plan and ensuring the internal audit function has adequate information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups resources and appropriate access to information to enable performance, business model and strategy.
it to perform its function effectively: To aid the review, the Committee considers reports from the reviewing key internal audit reports and findings: Group Finance Director and also reports from the external reviewing the adequacy and security of the groups auditor on the outcomes of the Half-Year review and arrangements for its employees and business partners to raise independent audit.
concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial Going concern and viability statement reporting or other matters ensuring that these arrangements The Audit Committee considered the evidence that supports allow proportionate and independent investigation of such the ability of the Directors to conclude that Mitie has adequate matters and appropriate follow up action : financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable reviewing the groups procedures for detecting fraud: future and can prepare its accounts on a going concern basis.
reviewing the groups systems and controls for the prevention The Committee considered the future prospects and of bribery: performance of the group including: the future business plans of the group: the potential impact of acquisition activity: the considering managements response to any major internal projected future cash flows of the group: the availability of core or external audit recommendations: and and ancillary financing facilities and compliance with related monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit and risk covenants: the projected drawn positions and headroom management systems and functions.
available on the core committed financing facilities: and those matters reviewed in connection with the viability statement.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available at It also reviewed and considered the disclosures on the matter www.
com investors shareholder-services corporateof going concern and viability in the Annual Report and Accounts governance.
and considered them to be appropriate.
Frequency of Audit Committee meetings Details of the conclusions arrived at by the Directors in preparing During the financial year, the Audit Committee met three times.
the financial statements on a going concern basis can be found Meetings may, by invitation, be attended by the groups external in the Directors report: other disclosures on page 99, as can the auditor, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance details of the conclusions arrived at by the directors in assessing Director and the Head of Internal Audit.
the viability of the group.
The more detailed assessment of the groups long-term viability is set out in the viability statement Attendance on page 61.
Number of meetings held in year: 3 1 Significant issues considered by the Committee during Mark Reckitt 2 of 2 the year Jack Boyer 3 The Audit Committee considered the following significant Larry Hirst 3 matters of judgement in relation to the accounting judgements 3 Crawford Gillies 0 of 1 contained in the Annual Report and Accounts.
In all cases, 2 David Jenkins 2 of 2 papers were presented to the Audit Committee by management, setting out the material matters of accounting estimates and Notes: the judgements associated with each item.
Mark Reckitt was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2015. was presented to the Audit Committee by the external auditor 2.
David Jenkins retired from the Board on 31 December 2015. that set out views on each area of judgement.
Crawford Gillies retired from the Board on 13 July 2015.
Committee discussed the papers with management and sought the views of the external auditor on each matter, and for each The role of the Committee financial reporting area of judgement concurred with the treatment presented by The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial management and in the Annual Report and Accounts.
reporting is to review with both management and the external auditor the appropriateness of the Half-Year and Annual Report and Accounts concentrating on, amongst other matters: the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies and practices both on a year-on-year basis and across the group: the clarity and completeness of disclosure in the groups financial statements and the context in which statements are made: the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions where different approaches are possible: and www.
com 71 Audit Committee continued Accounting for material contracts Financial Reporting Council FRC comment letter The group operates a broad portfolio of contracts and discloses The group received requests for further information and revenue recognition as a critical judgement in the Annual Report explanation from the FRC in relation to the groups 2014 and and Accounts.
The methodology used for the recognition of 2015 Annual Reports and Accounts.
After due consideration and contract revenue influences the amount of profit recognised approval by the Audit Committee, the group responded to the on a contract as well as the inclusion and valuation of contract FRCs requests.
The correspondence with the FRC in relation to related assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
the Groups Annual Reports and Accounts closed satisfactorily with no changes to reported results.
As a result of the The Audit Committee considered papers prepared by correspondence, the group refined the wording of certain of its management on: revenue and profit recognition on contracts: significant accounting policies and extended certain disclosures on the accounting treatment applied to all the groups larger in its 2015 and 2016 Annual Reports and Accounts.
integrated facilities management contracts, where judgement is required in respect of the percentage of completion of The role of the Committee external audit contracted work when recognising revenue and profit: Each year the Audit Committee reviews the performance contract performance: forecast levels of contract profit and of the external auditor in respect of audit related services the recognition and valuation of contract related assets and and non-audit related services and is committed to ensuring liabilities: and on the recoverability of certain specific contract the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the receivables and the risk associated with their collection.
The Committee concurred that the judgements made in Appointment and tendering of external audit services respect of accounting for material contracts were appropriate.
The Audit Committee will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next formal tender following the introduction of the The valuation of goodwill audit tendering provisions in the Code.
There are no contractual The group has undertaken a number of acquisitions in the past obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
and carries goodwill as an intangible asset on its balance sheet The Audit Committee approved the appointment of John in respect of the businesses acquired see Note 13.
Charlton as the audit partner, following the retirement of Colin Hudson from the audit during the year.
The Group considers the carrying value of all goodwill on at least an annual basis.
The valuation and impairment review of The Audit Committee confirms that the group is in compliance goodwill is assessed for each individual cash-generating unit with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market CGU and considers the balance sheet value of the goodwill Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Process compared to the net present value of the post-tax cash flows and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. that are expected to be generated by that CGU.
This involves an estimation of the future cash flows deriving from each CGU Deloitte LLP has been the Companys external auditor since its and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which are market listing in 1987.
Mitie tendered its full external audit services then applied to the cash flows to calculate a net present value.
in 2012 and concluded that Deloitte LLP should be re-appointed as external auditor given its relevant experience in both the listed The assumptions underpinning the reviews were considered company environment and the support services sector.
The cash flow forecasts used in the review were derived from the most recent CGU budgets which External auditor effectiveness have been reviewed and approved by the Board and the longThe Audit Committee monitored the conduct and effectiveness term business plans of the group.
The assumptions underpinning of the external auditor through its assessment of: the review, and also the sensitivity of the decision on goodwill the experience, expertise and perceptiveness of the auditor: impairment to changes in key assumptions including the discount factor were considered by management and presented the planning and execution of the agreed audit plan and to the Audit Committee.
During the year management formally quality of audit reports: and considered the carrying value of goodwill in respect of the the conduct of the auditor including the Audit Committees Healthcare CGU at both the half year and at the year end given experience of interaction with the auditor, which included the performance of the healthcare business.
The Committee meetings held in the absence of management.
considered a detailed paper from management and a paper from the external auditor on the key assumptions underpinning The Audit Committee is satisfied with the independence and the carrying value of goodwill.
This included consideration of effectiveness of the external auditor and, in light of the audit the business plan for the Healthcare CGU including the areas tender conducted in 2012, has assessed and recommended of activity to be undertaken following the acquisition of Tascor to the Board the continued engagement of Deloitte LLP Medical Services, the conditions in the healthcare market, the as the Companys external auditor.
The Board is therefore calculation of the discount rate applied, the sensitivity of the recommending that Deloitte LLP be proposed for impairment testing to potential changes to both the key re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
assumptions and the discount rate applied therein, and the disclosures to be made in the accounts.
On the basis of this review, the Audit Committee agreed with management that no impairment to goodwill was necessary.
72 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Non-audit services provided by the external auditor Assurance The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Policy that ensures the external auditor remains independent and section C. 2.3 of the Code, the Board performs a formal and objective throughout the provision of their independent annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the audit services and when formulating their audit opinion.
system of internal control, covering all material controls including In order to retain the flexibility of utilising the external auditor financial, operational and compliance controls, and updates to provide non-audit services, the following criteria must also this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report be met.
These are such that the external auditor does not: and Accounts.
audit their own work: These activities are monitored at executive level to ensure that control changes are implemented appropriately and that make management decisions for the group: they are effective.
The Head of Internal Audit oversees the create a conflict of interest: or application of control environment improvements and attends Audit Committee meetings to provide regular updates on the find themselves in the role of advocate for the group.
effectiveness of the groups internal controls and the results of the internal audit process.
The Non-Audit Services Policy identifies the various types of non-audit services and determines the analysis to be undertaken Features of the internal control and risk management along with the level of authority required before the external systems that ensure accuracy and reliability of financial auditor can be considered to undertake such services.
Further, reporting include: a culture of good governance, integrity, the policy is consistent with the Financial Reporting Councils competence, fairness and responsibility: group level policies and ethical standards policy.
procedures to support the business by providing an operational When considering the appointment of the external auditor for internal control framework: clearly defined responsibilities, delegated in accordance with the groups delegated authorities non-audit services, the following factors are taken into account: and authorisation registers: and a group function with a team the quality of work provided by the external auditor: of specialist resources.
representations provided by the external auditor regarding Mark Reckitt independence and objectivity, along with internal controls Chairman of the Audit Committee implemented by them when providing non-audit services: the level of the external auditors understanding of the group: the nature of the work being performed: and the commercial and practical circumstances of particular types of work required.
Non-audit services provided to the group during the year included tax and corporate finance services.
Further details can be found in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee considered reports from both management and the external auditor, none of which raised concerns about auditor independence.
This included consideration of the impact of the integrated facilities management contract with Deloitte LLP that was awarded to the group during the year.
This contract award was made following a competitive tender process and in compliance with Deloittes internal independence and ethical standards.
A summary of the fees paid to the external auditor is given in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
