Nomination Committee Key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: making recommendations to the Board regarding succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, and in particular for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including its skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes and setting targets for diversity: keeping under review the leadership needs of the group in order to ensure it continues to compete effectively in the marketplace: making recommendations to the Board concerning the Roger Matthews following: Chairmans introduction The role of the Nomination Committee Chairman is to potential candidates to fill Board vacancies when they arise: ensure the Board is appropriately balanced in terms of its the appointment of any director to executive or other office: composition, considering matters of diversity, skills and suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent experience.
The Committee is comprised of the Chairman Director: of the Board and independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the their duties.
conclusion of their specified term of office particularly in relation to directors being re-elected for a term beyond Nomination Committee members six years : During the year Crawford Gillies and David Jenkins were also the appointment of the Company Secretary: members of the Committee until their retirement from the Board, on 13 July 2015 and 31 December 2015 respectively.
membership of the Board committees: and Mark Reckitt became a member of the Committee upon his any matters relating to the continuation in office of appointment to the Board on 1 July 2015. any Director.
At the date of this report the Committee comprises: keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the group and the market Chairman Roger Matthews in which it operates: and Committee members Jack Boyer reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation Larry Hirst process that relate to the composition of the Board.
Mark Reckitt The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available at Key purpose of the Nomination Committee www.
com investors shareholder-services corporateThe Nomination Committee evaluates the composition, governance.
diversity, experience, knowledge, skills and independence of the Board and its committees.
This allows the appropriate balance to be maintained and ensures the continued effectiveness of the Board.
The Committee also ensures that appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the groups senior management are also kept under review, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the group, and the diversity, skills and expertise that are therefore required in the future.
74 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key activities during the year Employee diversity and inclusion The Committee reviewed the composition and chairmanship Mitie has a company-wide Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy of the Board and each of its committees.
The Committee is that clearly states its commitment to the inclusion and diversity satisfied that the Boards composition has been appropriate of all employees at all levels, up to and including Board level.
throughout the year, having regard in particular to the integrity, The Board retains a key focus on diversity of skills, gender and skills, knowledge and experience of its Directors and the size experience in its membership with a view to setting appropriate and nature of the business.
aspirational targets designed to reflect the diverse demographic of The Committee recognises the importance of planning for the the Groups employee population.
The Board ensures the groups future and the succession planning process.
During the year, the employment practices and policies are designed to recruit, Committee considered the succession plan for key members of motivate, retain, train and develop the very best people, the executive management team.
recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability, The Committee also worked with executive search firm sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
Norman Broadbent during the financial year.
The firm supported the Committee in its search for David Jenkins successor as Further details of the groups commitment to diversity, together Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
with a breakdown of employee diversity as required by the There is no other connection between Norman Broadbent Companies Act 2006 can be found in the Strategic report on and the Company.
Frequency of Nomination Committee meetings Further details of the diversity of Mities people can be found During the financial year, the Committee met four times.
in the groups Sustainability Report which is available on the Companys website at www.
Attendance Number of meetings held in year: 4 Roger Matthews Chairman of the Nomination Committee Roger Matthews 4 Jack Boyer 4 Larry Hirst 4 3 Investment Committee Mark Reckitt 3 of 3 Overview and purpose 2 Crawford Gillies 1 of 1 The Investment Committee strengthens the groups 1 David Jenkins 1 of 2 governance framework and facilitates the internal approvals Notes: process by approving matters as delegated by the Board 1.
David Jenkins retired from the Board on 31 December 2015. and referring recommendations for Board approval.
The Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, as Chair, 2.
Crawford Gillies retired from the Board on 13 July 2015. and Group Finance Director, met four times during the year 3.
Mark Reckitt was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2015. and considered matters such as major bids and contracts, acquisitions, disposals, large capital expenditure and Mitie Model investments.
Results Committee Overview and purpose The Results Committee assists the Board in approving matters such as half-year and preliminary results announcements, other routine, non-material announcements and shareholder communications.
The Results Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, as Chair, and Group Finance Director, met twice during the year.
