The Board delegation of authority including the division of Board members The members of the Board and their accompanying biographies responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and approval of terms of reference of Board Committees: are set out on pages 62 and 63.
All Directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their communication including making arrangements for dialogue responsibilities effectively and, where possible, attend all Board with shareholders and canvassing shareholder opinion: meetings and the AGM.
Any time commitment matters are addressed by the Chairman with the Director concerned.
people including consideration of appointments to and resignations from the Board, changes to the structure, size, Chairman Roger Matthews composition and diversity of the Board and ensuring adequate Board members Ruby McGregor-Smith succession planning for the Board and senior management: executive Suzanne Baxter policies including approval of group policies relating to share Board members Jack Boyer dealing, code of conduct, health and safety, corporate social non-executive Larry Hirst responsibility and ethical trading: and Mark Reckitt from 1 July 2015 other matters including approval of new material banking Crawford Gillies until 13 July 2015 facilities: appointment of principal professional advisors: David Jenkins until 31 December 2015 approval of the annual renewal of the groups insurance arrangements: and material changes to the rules or statement Key purpose of the Board of investment principles of the groups pension schemes.
The Board is collectively responsible for the sustainable longterm success of the Company and provides leadership and Full details of the matters reserved for the Board can be found direction to management.
Accordingly, the Board reviews and at www.
com investors shareholder-services corporateagrees the strategy for the group, proposed by the Executive governance.
Directors, on an annual basis and reviews certain aspects of The Directors are mindful of their legal duties to act in a way the strategy at Board meetings during the year.
In setting the they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the strategy, the Board takes account of matters such as: market success of the Company for its shareholders, having regard trends: competitive environment: private public sector approach: also to other stakeholders.
international aspects of the business and opportunities: finance: shareholder returns: people and talent: and the Mitie Model, Frequency of Board meetings ensuring at all times that sufficient consideration is given to risk During the year ended 31 March 2016, there were six scheduled and internal controls.
Key responsibilities There are key matters and responsibilities that are set aside Attendance to be dealt with exclusively by the Board.
These include: Number of scheduled Board meetings held in the year: 6 strategy including setting group strategies and objectives: Roger Matthews 6 structure including approval of material changes to the Ruby McGregor-Smith 6 groups structure: Suzanne Baxter 6 financial reporting including approving the groups Half-Year Jack Boyer 6 and Annual Report and Accounts, and approving business Larry Hirst 6 plans and budgets and monitoring performance against them: 3 Mark Reckitt 5 of 5 internal controls including ensuring that a sound system of 1 Crawford Gillies 2 of 2 internal controls is maintained which is designed to safeguard 2 David Jenkins 3 of 4 assets and ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication: and reviewing and Notes: monitoring the effectiveness of those risk and control 1.
Crawford Gillies retired from the Board on 13 July 2015. processes, with the assistance of the Audit Committee through 2.
David Jenkins retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
Internal Audit and the Group Enterprise Risk framework: 3.
Mark Reckitt was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2015. acquisitions, disposals and contracts including approving Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held, to the extent material acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups necessary, to deal with the review and approval of material including any material transactions outside of the normal transactions, key contracts, acquisitions and issues relating to course of business : shares and other administrative matters.
corporate governance matters including undertaking a formal and rigorous review annually of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors: determining the independence of directors and reviewing the groups overall corporate governance arrangements: www.
com 65 The Board continued Key areas of business The Chief Executive In addition to the key responsibilities described above, during the The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation year the Board spent time discussing capital allocation policy and management of the group and its business within the including in relation to share buy-backs, developments in authorities delegated to her by the Board.
corporate governance, principal risks and viability, the Modern She is specifically responsible for: Slavery Act, the National Minimum and Living Wage, the impact of Gender Pay Reporting and the Apprenticeship Levy.
developing group objectives and proposing and implementing strategy, having regard to the groups responsibilities to its Division of responsibilities of the Chairman and shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders: Chief Executive The Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined and recommending to the Board an annual budget and strategic separate roles divided between running the Board on the one and financial plan and ensuring their achievement following hand, and the business on the other, whilst maintaining a close Board approval: working relationship.
They have an open dialogue and meet optimising the use and adequacy of the groups resources: regularly between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of business issues and facilitate efficient decision examining all investments and major capital expenditure proposed by subsidiary companies and recommending to the making.
The document setting out this division of responsibilities is available on the website at www.
com investors Board those which, in a group context, are material in either nature or cost: shareholder-services corporate-governance.
evaluation, approval and execution of material contracts, The Chairman investments including technology investments, acquisitions, The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and is responsible for: disposals and new business opportunities: chairing the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects ensuring at all times that the groups risk profile, including the of its role, including the regularity and frequency of meetings: health and safety performance of the business, is managed liaising with the Company Secretary to set Board in line with the extent and categories of risk identified as agendas, taking into account the issues and concerns acceptable by the Board: of all Board members: making recommendations on remuneration policy, ensuring there is an appropriate delegation of authority other remuneration related matters and in respect of the from the Board to the executive management: appointment of executive directors to the various Board managing the Board to ensure sufficient time is allocated to committees other than the Nomination, Audit and promote healthy discussion and open debate, supported by Remuneration Committees : the right level and quality of information to assist the Board setting group HR policies, including management development in reaching its decisions: and succession planning for senior management and facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive approving the appointment and termination of employment Directors and encouraging active engagement by all of members of that team: members of the Board: ensuring the effective implementation of Board decisions, ensuring constructive relations between the Executive and and regularly reviewing the operational performance and Non-Executive Directors: strategic direction of the groups business: and ensuring that new Directors participate in a full, formal and ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
tailored induction programme: The Group Finance Director ensuring that the performance of the Board, its committees The Group Finance Director is responsible for: and individual directors is evaluated at least once a year and acting on the results of such evaluation: and leading, directing and overseeing all aspects of the finance and accounting functions of the group, including financial reporting, maintaining sufficient contact with major shareholders in tax, treasury, strategy, performance analysis and financial order to understand their issues and concerns, in particular planning, financial systems and the development of the back in relation to governance, strategy and remuneration, and office and management information of the group, and ensuring that their views are communicated to the Board managing the processes for financial forecasting, budgets as a whole.
and consolidated reporting: The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, evaluating, approving and advising the Board and the without the Executive Directors being present.
He is available to Executive Committee on the financial, commercial and consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be legal impact of material contracts and transactions available at the AGM.
including mergers and acquisitions, technology investments in support of the development of the group, long range planning assumptions, investment return metrics, risks and opportunities and the impact of changes in accounting standards: 66 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 overseeing and directing the groups risk, insurance, pensions, During the 2013 14 financial year the Board was assisted internal audit, legal, corporate governance and assurance in its evaluation by independent consultants, Condign Board functions and managing the relationships with the external Consulting.
During the 2015 16 financial year the Board auditor, key financial institutions and advisors to the group: internally reviewed its performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
The process was based upon the ensuring that effective internal controls are in place and completion of an appropriately designed questionnaire and or that the Company complies with appropriate accounting one-to-one meetings between the Chairman and or the Senior regulations for financial, regulatory and tax reporting: and Independent Director and individual Directors.
Key areas providing an underpin to all aspects of the groups governance addressed were the Boards composition balance of skills, framework, the application of its delegated authorities, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company, and operation of its committees, its investment activities and diversity, including gender, Board governance and processes, chairing the Risk Committee.
group strategy, contribution by the Board, adequacy of resources, knowledge and training needs, and follow-through The Non-Executive Directors on the prior Board evaluation.
The Non-Executive Directors review proposals for the strategic direction of the group, constructively challenging and probing Evaluation of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent proposals presented by the Executive Directors, based on their Director.
breadth of knowledge, experience and individual skills, and contributing to the formulation and development of strategy.
The conclusions and recommendations of the review were shared with the Board at the meeting in May 2016.
Following They are responsible for monitoring high level corporate the completion of the Board evaluation process, the Board reporting and satisfying themselves as to the integrity of was satisfied as to its effectiveness, and that of its committees, financial information and the operation of key controls.
and that each Director had dedicated sufficient time to the Company in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
They are required to maintain an effective understanding and oversight of the groups principal risks and the assurance in The Board will continue to focus on its composition and place relating to those risks, including the results of the internal balance of skills and experience.
The Board will receive regular audit programme.
updates on the development of the customer proposition and presentations from divisional management on the strategic The Non-Executive Directors play a key role in determining development and performance of their businesses.
the remuneration policy for the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and members of the An externally facilitated performance evaluation of the Board senior management and take a primary role in Board will be conducted during the 2016 17 financial year, in line with succession planning.
the requirements of the Code.
They have a responsibility to exercise their independent skill Director re-election and judgement in carrying out their duties.
The performance of each Director has been reviewed as part of the annual board evaluation process and the Board is satisfied The Senior Independent Director that they continue to operate effectively and demonstrate clear The role of the Senior Independent Director includes acting as commitment to their roles.
All Directors will submit themselves a sounding board for the Chairman, serving as an intermediary for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
for the other directors when necessary, conducting the Chairmans annual performance evaluation and leading any Director induction process and training new Chairman appointment process.
He also acts as chairman In order to ensure that Directors skills and knowledge are of the Board, in absence of the Chairman, where necessary.
regularly updated briefing notes are circulated on matters such as changes in the regulatory and governance environment.
The Senior Independent Director is available as an alternative Visits to different business sites and offices are arranged in point of contact for shareholders should they have concerns order to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding which have not been resolved through the normal channels of of the business.
The Board also receives regular updates and Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, or for management presentations on the strategic development, which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
operational and financial performance of the group.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the All Directors receive a personally tailored induction to Mitie Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection which includes: at Mities registered office, Mities head office in Bristol and at the AGM.
meetings with the Executive Directors and other key members of the senior management team: Evaluation of the performance of the Board and the committees a review of the groups governance policies, structure and A performance evaluation of the Board and its committees is business, including details of the risks and operating issues carried out annually to ensure they continue to be effective and facing the group: that each of the directors demonstrates commitment to their visits to divisional offices and key client sites: and respective roles and has sufficient time to meet their a briefing on key contracts.
com 67 The Board continued Following his appointment in July 2015, Mark Reckitt received while the external view will include the economic position, political training and induction sessions with the Chairman, the Executive factors, and sector and geographical risks.
A top down and Directors, the Company Secretary, the Group Enterprise Risk bottom up approach ensures the systematic identification of Director, the divisional managing directors, the Head of Internal significant risks to the business.
Audit, Deloitte LLP and other key individuals.
Once identified, risks are assessed using standard impact and Members of the Board are given access to an online board likelihood ratings to quantify the risk to the achievement of portal which, as well as holding copies of all recent Board and business objectives.
Independent challenge and oversight of the committee reports and minutes, has a reading room where the risks identified within the divisional and functional risk registers Directors can access a Board Handbook containing essential are provided by the Enterprise Risk function and divisional information about the group, including: copies of Mities current managers, to ensure meaningful and consistent results are Articles of Association: the latest Annual Report and Accounts: achieved via the process.
During the year a dedicated risk Board and committee terms of reference: guidance on directors management software system was introduced across all statutory duties: governance and regulatory guidelines: the parts of the group to assist the risk assessment and risk groups approved delegated authorities: and an overview of the reporting requirements.
The new system has significantly groups directors and officers liability insurance arrangements.
enhanced the groups risk oversight processes, providing The Handbook is reviewed and updated regularly.
improved visibility in real time of risk assessment, risk interdependency and controls effectiveness, and enhanced Board accountability and assurance explained executive management reporting capabilities.
Risk management approach The Board understands that effective risk management and Risk mitigation To provide more robust information on the effectiveness of a sound system of internal control underpin the achievement of the groups strategy and supporting objectives.
The Audit the identified risk mitigation controls, the control and mitigation element of the groups risk management process was reviewed Committee recognises the enhanced risk management requirements of the Code and has continued to focus on its and enhanced over the course of the year.
Each identified risk has a defined control owner who is responsible for developing review of the risk management framework to better understand and address the nature of the risks faced by the group.
a plan to mitigate the risk.
Assessment of the effectiveness of this control environment is undertaken at divisional and group To ensure the continued identification of risks and opportunities to the delivery of its strategic objectives, the group maintains level, with the Audit Committee formally reviewing performance throughout the year and advising on the effectiveness of the risk a strong focus on embedding risk management across all areas of the business.
Risk culture Risk management processes The groups risk management framework provides a flexible While it is understood that an effective risk management framework is essential for the achievement of the groups and adaptable approach to the identification of risk across all areas of the business, to meet the demands of the dynamic strategic objectives, values and risk management culture underpin how the group operates.
The focus, during the year, and quickly evolving environment in which the group continues to operate.
The Risk Management Policy establishes the has therefore been on providing a strong and consistent message from senior management or tone from the top requirements for all areas of the group to implement requiring a consistent process for the identification and assessment of on the importance of embedding risk management into all key decisions such that opportunities to grow the group are risks, the associated mitigation measures and the potential impact of such events occurring.
The policy was reviewed during effectively balanced with effective risk management decision making.
This means that opportunities may be exploited, the year and determined to be effective.
Ultimate responsibility for risk management lies with the Chief Executive, delegated provided risks have been properly identified and the right controls established or, in some cases, potential opportunities through the executive management team, with accountability and responsibility assigned to specific risk owners.
The group risk may be declined as they sit outside of the groups risk appetite.
profile is reviewed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Aligned with the groups values, the code of conduct One Code Director in advance of formal review and approval by the Board.
continues to provide the framework upon which Mities risk This information is captured in risk registers at business, culture is built.
The code sets out expected behaviours, linked divisional and functional level, which are subsequently to the groups values, for all employees and establishes zero consolidated into strategic, operational, financial and regulatory tolerance in specific areas as part of an established ethical risk categories within the overall Group risk register maintained business framework.
The code was developed in alignment with by the Enterprise Risk function.
the public sectors seven principles of public life thus ensuring that, wherever Mitie operates, organisational values and Risk identification and assessment behaviours are aligned with those of the client.
The Board When considering the risks that pose a threat to the received regular reports on the development of this framework achievement of the groups strategy, the Board takes both during the year.
internal and external perspectives into account to ensure a thorough identification process occurs.
The internal view takes into account factors such as the changing and developing business profile, operational processes, technology and people, 68 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk monitoring and review Internal control and assurance Principal risks to the business are monitored throughout the Mitie operates a 3 lines of defence model incorporating internal year, as the businesss profile continues to change, to ensure controls, risk management and functional oversight, and Internal the risk profile is accurate and the control environment remains Audit.
The implementation of the system of internal control is effective.
The overall risk profile for the year remained in line with managed by the leadership of each division.
Group functions that reported in 2015, although the definition of a number of risk such as Finance, Legal, Human Resources and Risk collaborate events has been refined in order to more accurately reflect the with divisional teams to promote continuous improvement and evolving business and the potential challenges to achieving the ensure that controls are operating effectively.
A formal review groups strategic objectives.
It should be noted that other risks of the internal control environment, led by the Group Finance are identified as part of the risk management process, but these Director and Head of Risk with engagement from Divisional do not have a material impact on the groups overall ability to Directors and boards, is undertaken annually in each division achieve business objectives.
These risks are managed via the through the Internal Control Questionnaire, which evaluates existing risk management process.
During the year a formal and controls in all key business processes.
The Audit Committee detailed review of the risk management and internal control receives assurance over the effectiveness of divisional controls requirements of the Code was undertaken across all operating through this process, updates from specific functions, and the divisions, against the requirements provided in the FRCs independent testing undertaken by Internal Audit as part of guidance, with the results reported to the Audit Committee and their work.
As a result of this review, risk management and The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from internal control practices and reporting requirements were the external auditor Deloitte LLP, who contribute a further refined, and will continue to be further refined during 2016 17. independent perspective on the internal financial control systems The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, regularly reviews arising from their audit work, and updates from the Head of the programme of risk management undertaken across the Internal Audit and the Executive Directors on the operation of group to demonstrate the importance of the management controls within the business.
and assessment of risk at a senior level, to take ownership of Internal Audit mitigation improvements where required and to receive reports The Internal Audit function provides objective assurance over on the assurance activity undertaken.
In addition, during the the design and operation of risk management and governance year a Risk Committee was constituted as a sub-committee of processes and controls operated across the group.
The Head the Executive Board with responsibility for ensuring robust risk of Internal Audit is responsible for development of a risk based identification, assessment, control and monitoring occurs, with internal audit plan that is aligned with the overall business deep dive reviews of specific identified risks.
The Risk Committee strategy and provides assurance over the principal risks faced provides reports of its findings both to the Executive Board by the Group.
On an annual basis the Audit Committee reviews and Audit Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Group and approves both the audit plan for the year and the resources Finance Director with divisional Managing Directors, the required to deliver the agreed work programme.
The Internal Enterprise Risk Director, Group General Counsel and Head Audit plan is delivered through a co-sourced model, through of Internal Audit as nominated members.
In addition, external a mix of internal resources and external resources from the subject matter experts attend to provide specific technical risk groups Internal Audit partner, Grant Thornton.
management input where identified as necessary.
Although significant effort has been put into developing the groups risk The purpose, authority and responsibility of Internal Audit are management programme over recent years, management is defined in the Internal Audit Charter.
not complacent in this area.
During 2016 the risk management programme was subject to external review and evaluation by The Audit Committee regularly reviews the progress of the risk management experts from Grant Thornton.
internal audit plan, together with reports received on findings of audits and managements progress on implementation of Ultimately the risk management framework is designed to agreed recommendations.
The Head of Internal Audit has manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve the direct access to the Audit Chairman and members of the Audit objectives and strategies of the group and can therefore only Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit also reports regularly provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against to the Executive Board.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, considers the nature and extent of significant risks in setting the Committees of the Board groups strategy.
Details of the principal risks of the group are set The Board has five formally constituted committees: out on pages 57 to 60.
The Audit Committee confirms that this the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the risk management process has been in place throughout the Remuneration Committee, the Investment Committee and reporting year and up to the date of approval of the Annual the Results Committee, the scope of which are set out on the Report and Accounts.
