Risk Committee Report The Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework, ensuring that risks are appropriately identified, managed and mitigated, and advising the Board on risk appetite, strategy and culture.
Committee membership I chair the Risk Committee and the other members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors are detailed in the table below.
Biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Committee members Committee members Eligible to attend Attended Sally James Chairman 5 5 Andrew Fisher 5 5 Robin Freestone 5 5 Rob Rowley 5 5 Genevieve Shore 5 4 Genevieve Shore was unable to attend one meeting due to personal reasons The secretary to the Committee is Darren Drabble, Company Secretary and Group General Counsel.
The Risk Committee maintains close links with the Audit Committee with the Chairman of each Committee being a Sally James member of the other.
This cross-membership facilitates Chairman of the Risk Committee effective linkage between both Committees and ensures that any matters relating to internal control and financial reporting are considered in an effective manner.
In addition, the Risk Committee works with the Remuneration Committee to ensure that risk is properly considered in setting the Groups remuneration policy.
I am also a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Role The primary role of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of risk within the Group, including risk appetite, risk tolerance and the risk management framework.
This includes: advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance, strategy and culture: In 2016, we: overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy: u focused on technology and data security risks and management which overseeing the application of the Groups risk management included a security review of the new framework: technology platform: reviewing reports received from the Groups management, Risk and Compliance function and, where appropriate, Internal Audit or u oversaw the implementation of an upgraded testing programme for new third parties on the identification, management and mitigation of technology releases: risks: overseeing compliance with relevant legal and regulatory u reviewed progress on implementation requirements including financial crime and anti-bribery of an overarching framework for procedures: management of suppliers: and in relation to proposed strategic transactions, material acquisitions u focused on risks and controls relating to or disposals, ensuring that a due diligence appraisal of the change management and incident proposition is undertaken, which includes an assessment of risks management.
and implications for the risk appetite and tolerance of the Group: and considering and approving the remit of the Risk and Compliance function and ensuring it has adequate resources.
54 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibilities are published on the investor relations section In 2016, we: of the Groups website at http: corporate.
com and are available in hard copy form from the Company Secretary.
u enhanced and approved the Group Risk Appetite We review our terms of reference annually.
Framework and Statement following scenario analysis and consideration by executive management: Committee meetings We met five times in 2016 and the attendance of our members is u approved revisions to our detailed risk register to shown in the table on the previous page.
We invited the Chairman reflect changes in classification of risks and inclusion of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief of new risks: Risk Officer and Company Secretary, together with appropriate u oversaw the introduction of a suite of Group risk members of the management team with responsibility for policies which 1 underpin the Groups Risk Appetite management of key risks, and the external auditor, to meetings as Framework and Statement and 2 define the Groups necessary.
The Committee also meets separately with the Chief Risk key risks and activities to mitigate those risks: Officer at least once a year.
u reviewed progress on the implementation of a After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that framework for management of suppliers: we discussed.
u received presentations on risks from each of the brands: The members of the Risk Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent u introduced a conduct scorecard for professional advice at the Companys expense.
MoneySavingExpert: u reviewed the conduct scorecards at each meeting to Principal activities in 2016 ensure we are putting customers at the heart of the The Committee has an annual schedule of work, developed from its business through our Customer First programme: terms of reference, with standing items that it considers at each meeting in addition to any specific matters upon which the u enhanced reporting of legal matters and regulatory Committee has decided to focus.
This schedule of work is expected developments: to evolve to reflect the Groups strategy and changes to the u assessed the identification and management of risks economic and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
connected to change management: The Risk Committee receives regular reports from members of executive management, the Chief Risk Officer, Internal Audit and the u oversaw the compliance with evolving regulation and interactions with our regulators including the Group General Counsel.
FCA and the CMA, in particular in relation to the digital comparison tools review: u assessed the identification and management of technology risks across the Group, which included a cyber security review of the new technology platform: and u oversaw the enhancement of incident management processes including detection and escalation procedures.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55 Risk Committee Report continued Risk and Compliance Overview of Committee activities for 2017 The Group has a Risk and Compliance function, headed by the Chief The management of operational and conduct risks will continue to Risk Officer, which reviews the Groups standards and values be our priority for 2017.
We will focus on those areas identified in together with regulatory matters in relation to the various bodies the external consultants assessment of the Groups risk that regulate a number of the areas within which the Group management framework and compliance processes, in particular operates.
These include the FCA, the Information Commissioners the embedding of risk management processes into key business Office and Ofgem which operates a voluntary code relating to energy activities.
We will continue to improve the management of price comparison to which the Group subscribes.
technology risks including the delivery of the cyber security programme and will oversee the implementation of systems, processes and procedures to meet the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
In 2016, we: u reviewed and approved the Risk and Compliance The Group recognises that regulation in general, and in particular plan which defines the scope of the work that the the activities of the FCA, Ofgem and CMA will continue to be a function will undertake with regard to compliance feature of the price comparison market.
The Group has invested, monitoring and assurance activities across the and will continue to invest, in additional skills and resources in this Group: area in 2017. u commissioned an external assessment of the This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Groups risk management framework, reviewed the recommendations and ensured plans were in place to address those recommendations, to the extent Sally James not already in progress: Chairman of the Risk Committee 27 February 2017 u considered the updates against the Risk and Compliance plan and the results of the work performed since the previous meeting and managements response: and u reviewed the resources of the Risk and Compliance function.
Risk Committee effectiveness In 2016, we carried out our annual evaluation of Risk Committee effectiveness by questionnaire.
The questionnaire focused on areas such as composition, how the Committee operates, professional development of members and oversight of risk management.
The responses were then discussed at a Committee meeting.
We also reviewed our progress against actions identified in the 2015 evaluation.
2015 evaluation actions update The following actions were identified during the 2015 evaluation: further enhancements to management information relating to the reporting of key risks - management information and content of reports has been enhanced: succession planning within the Risk and Compliance function - this is ongoing, with successors each having personal development plans: and further enhancements to the forward rolling agenda on key risks - meetings this year have included detailed sessions on technology and data security risks.
2016 evaluation actions update Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2017 include: greater interaction between the Risk Committee and senior management within the first line, in addition to executive management: continue to focus on putting customers at the heart of the business: and continue to enhance management information relating to the reporting of risks.
The Board, based on the evaluation exercise, concluded that the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2016.
56 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016
