102 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report How the committee spent its time The committee oversees and monitors the DLC sustainable progress of our sustainable development development SD approach, commitments, targets committee and performance within a global context.
The committee provides guidance in relation to sustainability matters generally, reviewing and updating the Groups framework of sustainability policies and strategies, ensuring they are aligned with global best practice.
A key focus for the committee during the early part of the year was finalising the Groups Growing Responsibly model and Its a time of collaboration, 2020 commitments.
A more streamlined collective action and holistic and focused approach has been taken with thinking, with an increased 16 commitments across 10 action areas.
expectation for business to play The committee also spent time reviewing a more active role.
Our approach the revised SD policies and their alignment is well aligned with the current with the new SD framework.
More detail global sustainable development on the commitments and policies and a full agenda and provides a strong review of Mondis sustainability activities foundation for future sustainable and progress can be found on the Mondi profitable growth.
Stephen Harris The safety and health of our employees and Chairman of the DLC sustainable contractors remains high on our agenda development committee and the safety performance is reviewed at each meeting.
The detail provided helps Composition us to identify and address any developing Meeting trends.
The committee has monitored the Members Committee attendance continuing efforts on safety culture within throughout member six meetings the year since in the year the Group and has been encouraged by Stephen Harris March 2011 5 the results of the continued focus on the 1 chairman top fatal risks in our operations.
During the David May 2007 6 year all the major maintenance shuts Hathorn were completed without serious incident.
Anne August 2009 6 The focus on the top fatal risks, revision Quinn of the risk assessment methodology and engagement of our employees and 1 Stephen Harris was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
In his absence the contractors has helped us to deliver meeting was chaired byAnne Quinn industry leading results.
The committee works together with Other regular attendees the Mondi Limited social and ethics e Group technical director committee in addressing social and ethical e Group head of sustainable values.
The Group heads of sustainable development development and safety and health attend all meetings of the committee and e Group head of safety and health provide the link between the committee, management and the operations.
A summary report from the directors on the Groups sustainability practices is set out on pages 40 to 47.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 103 Other matters addressed by the committee included: Safety performance and serious incidents e Received detailed reports of selected incidents, for individual mill performance, classification of example those having a high risk potential or major incidents and peer comparisons.
close calls and reviewed managements response.
e Considered the safety milestones and leading and e Received regular reports on safety performance lagging indicators for the next reporting period.
by Group, division and business unit, including SD governance and risks e Reviewed those elements of the Groups Code e Reviewed and approved the annual report on of Business Ethics reserved for review by payments to governments by companies in the the committee.
e Reviewed the material SD risks and opportunities.
e Reviewed the committees terms of reference and performance.
e Reviewed and approved the annual SD reporting.
e Considered and agreed the committees annual work programme.
Environmental performance e Received regular reviews on performance against e Received information on any relevant each of the environmental key performance environmental incidents and considered indicators and commitments, noting the managements response.
improvements achieved resulting from major capital investment projects.
Policies and commitments e Reviewed the achievements against the e Reviewed and approved updated SD policies that 2015 commitments.
underpin our approach to managing sustainable development across our operations.
e Considered and agreed the approach for the 2020 commitments and the implementation of the e Received an update on and monitored progress Growing Responsibly model.
with the implementation of the SD policies and commitments.
Forestry e Received and reviewed an update on the forestry e Received and reviewed an update on the forestry operations in Russia.
Community and other relationships e Reviewed the Groups relationships with e Reviewed our social and community engagement, governments, NGOs and other stakeholders.
including Community Engagement Programmes, outcomes from our SEATs Socio-economic e Reviewed the on-going WWF global partnership assessment toolbox and impact effectiveness of and initiatives.
Product stewardship e Received a review on the Groups product e Reviewed the updated Green Range that stewardship practices.
includes seven criteria important to consider when delivering resource-efficient, sustainable e Considered the increased focus on supply chain packaging and paper products that meet high management, including the Groups proposed environmental and social standards.
implementation of the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act.
