Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees: taking into account skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Committee membership I chair the Nomination Committee and the other members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, are detailed in the table below.
Biographies of the members of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Committee members Committee members Eligible to attend Attended Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman 5 5 Andrew Fisher 5 5 Robin Freestone 5 5 Sally James 5 5 Rob Rowley 5 5 Genevieve Shore 5 4 Genevieve Shore was unable to attend one meeting due to personal reasons Role The role of the Nomination Committee is to: regularly evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and Bruce Carnegie-Brown independence of the Board: Chairman of the Nomination Committee review the size, structure and composition of the Board, including Board diversity: identify and recommend to the Board at the relevant time candidates for appointment as Directors: and give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and In 2016, we: transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors u conducted an executive search to the Board.
When the need to appoint a Director is identified, fora new Chief Executive Officer: we prepare a candidate profile indicating the skills, knowledge and experience required, taking into account the Boards u continued to review the existing composition.
We engage external executive search composition of the Board: consultants and we interview suitable candidates who are u reviewed and updated the Boards proposed by either existing Board members or by the external Statement on Diversity: and executive search consultants.
u continued to review talent in the We give careful consideration to ensure proposed appointees Group including the succession and have enough time available to devote to the role and that the development plans for the Board balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is and executive management.
When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable candidate, we then make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
Committee meetings We met on five occasions during the year.
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are set out above.
We invited the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and the Company Secretary to attend meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Committee.
52 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s The Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC welcomed the In 2016, we: publication in November 2016 of the Hampton-Alexander Review on FTSE Women Leaders.
com Group PLC is u reviewed the composition of the Board, including the committed to ensuring that any Board vacancies arising are filled by balance of skills, knowledge and experience: the most qualified candidates and recognises the value and importance of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When u reviewed succession plans for the Board and Board positions become available, the Company will remain focused executive management: on ensuring that a diverse range of candidates are considered whilst u conducted an executive search for, considered and ensuring that appointments continue to be based on merit, recommended to the Board the appointment of a measured against objective criteria and the skills and experience the new Chief Executive Officer: individual offers.
The Board has targeted a minimum female representation on the Board of 33% by 2020. u considered and recommended to the Board the re-election of all Directors at the 2017 Annual As at the date of this report, the Board had a total of eight Directors.
General Meeting other than Rob Rowley and Peter The skill set of the Non-Executive Directors includes financial, Plumb who are stepping down from the Board on that date: and economic, banking, digital, technology, communications and consumer expertise.
u reviewed the register of Directors conflicts of interest.
Nomination Committee effectiveness In 2016 we carried out a separate evaluation of Nomination Committee effectiveness by questionnaire.
The questionnaire We followed the procedure outlined above for the search for the focused on areas such as composition, how the Committee new Chief Executive Officer who is due to join on 13 March 2017. operates, its responsibilities, knowledge and experience of We engaged Russell Reynolds as the external executive search members.
The responses were discussed at a Committee meeting.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection with the We also reviewed our progress against actions identified in the 2015 Company.
We considered and interviewed a wide and diverse range evaluation.
of candidates and the Board was unanimous in its decision to appoint Mark Lewis.
2015 evaluation actions update Mark has a successful track record of leading fast growing digital The following actions were identified during the 2015 evaluation: businesses with strong customer satisfaction, trust and values.
His further enhancements to the forward rolling agenda on succession experience and values are aligned with our goal of helping our planning and talent management succession planning and talent customers save money on their household bills.
management have been discussed in three out of five meetings this year: and The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge greater focus in meetings on diversity we have had two meetings in it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent which this has been discussed in greater detail.
professional advice at the Companys expense.
2016 evaluation actions update Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibility are published on the investor relations section of Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2017 the Groups website at http: corporate.
com include: and are available in hard copy form on application to the Company greater focus on managing pipeline of top talent to run the business Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually.
particularly at the level below executive management: and continued focus in meetings on diversity.
Boardroom diversity Having met our previous target of 25% minimum female The Board, based on the evaluation exercise, concluded that the representation on the Board by 2016 and in light of the HamptonCommittee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role Alexander Review, we have revised the Boards Statement on throughout 2016.
Diversity, which is as follows: This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2017 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 53
