90 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report How the committee spent its time Meetings.
The committee, following consideration of the skills and experience With one non-executive director having DLC nominations required to fulfil the role of chief executive reached their nine-year term this provided committee officer, and on the basis of previous a potential opportunity to bring onto the succession planning, which forms a regular Boards additional experience in the key part of the committees discussions, was areas identified in line with the Groups confident that Peter Oswald is well placed strategy.
A number of discussions to succeed David and will provide strong were held and consideration given to continuity to the Group.
The committee the availability of appropriate talent.
also recommended to the Boards, and This culminated in the appointment of the Boards agreed, that Peter will replace Tanya Fratto on 1 January 2017 who David as a member of the sustainable will replace Anne Quinn as chair of the development committee and the Mondi remuneration committee when she steps Limited social and ethics committee.
down from the Boards at the conclusion of The composition of the Boards the Annual General Meetings.
and the skill set required in Diversity, in all its forms, remains top of order to deliver Mondis stated many stakeholder agendas and is regularly In January 2017, David Hathorn notified the strategy remained a key focus reviewed by the committee in the context of committee and the Boards of his intention for the committees discussions not only the board composition but that of to retire as Chief executive officer, also throughout the year.
We have the executive and senior management.
at the conclusion of the Annual General also noted the increasing focus of stakeholders on diversity in all its forms and will be reviewing Mondis policies and practices in Other matters addressed by the committee included: this regard during the next year.
Board and committee composition David Williams Chairman of the DLC nominations committee e Reviewed the composition of the Boards and e Reviewed and confirmed the composition of made recommendations regarding the skills each of the committees and committee chairs, and experience that would both maintain an recommending changes to the Boards.
Composition appropriate balance of skills and experience and e Reviewed the continued independence of each Meeting support the future growth strategy.
non-executive director, including consideration Members Committee attendance throughout member six meetings e Conducted a review as Anne Quinn had reached of their term in office and any potential conflicts 1 the year since in the year her nine-year term in office see page 86 for of interest.
Stephen March 2011 6 e Reviewed the time commitment required of Harris e Oversaw the recruitment process for a new each non-executive director, concluding that non-executive director see page 91 for all non-executive directors continued to devote John October 2009 6 more information.
appropriate time to address their duties to Mondi.
Nicholas Fred June 2013 6 Phaswana Succession planning Anne May 2007 6 Quinn e Received a report and presentation on talent e Reviewed the succession plans for the executive management practices within the Group.
committee members and senior management Dominique October 2015 6 within the Group, discussing any potential gaps Reiniche e Received a report and presentation on diversity and actions to address them.
within the Group and reviewed measures being David Williams, May 2007 6 taken to improve this.
chairman 1 Tanya Fratto was appointed a member of the committee on 1 January 2017 and therefore did Board evaluation not attend any meetings during 2016 e Monitored progress against the agreed action plan and individual directors see page 89 for from the prior years evaluation process see page more information.
Other regular attendees 89 for more information.
e Reviewed the output from the 2016 evaluation e Chief executive officer e Considered and agreed the process for the 2016 process and recommended an action plan to the Boards see page 89 for more information.
external evaluation of the Boards, committees Corporate governance and other matters e Considered the time commitment that was e Reviewed and recommended to the Boards required from each of the executive directors the re-election of all directors at the Annual holding external appointments.
e Considered a request from a non-executive e Reviewed the committees terms of reference, director to take on the directorship of another performance and work programme.
company, confirming that the time commitment e Considered and agreed the committees report would not interfere with their duties to Mondi.
for inclusion in the Groups Integrated report and financial statements.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 91 Mondi has many challenges in this area below board level, in part due to the Process nature of the business and geographies Agreed key business Agent conducted a market Reduced the short Boards considered in which we operate.
This does not experience and skills search and provided a long listto three candidates the recommendation however constrain our discussions or required and drew list of potential candidates for interview by other and proceeded with how the Group is looking to tackle this up a candidate for consideration executive and nonthe appointment specification executive directors issue.
Our HR function has implemented a number of initiatives from recruitment and development to the approach to talent management.
Mondi is very much on a journey with diversity and as a committee we monitor what is being done and what Engaged external Short list chosen from Nominations committee progress is being made see page 92 for independent search long list for interview considered the preferred more information.
agent, The Zygos by one of the joint candidates and made Partnership, to assist with chairmen and SID a recommendation to the selection process the Boards Terms of appointment On appointment each non-executive Appointment process director receives letters of appointment Although there were no changes to the Having reviewed all the profiles, initial setting out, among other things, their Boards during the year, an appointment interviews were undertaken with a term of appointment, the expected time was made on 1 January 2017 in order to number of the candidates before commitment for their duties to Mondi and prepare for the departure of Anne Quinn drawing up a shortlist of three candidates details of any committees of which they will following over nine years of service on who were then interviewed by other be a member.
Non-executive directors are the Boards.
Anne is stepping down at Mondi executives and non-executives.
initially appointed for a three-year term, after the conclusion of the Annual General Detailed references were also taken which a review is undertaken to consider Meetings in May 2017.
There is an agreed before the shortlisted candidates were renewal of the term for a further three appointment process that we followed.
considered at a full meeting of the years.
However, Mondi follows governance This process is outlined below.
best practice with all directors standing for re-election by shareholders at each Annual The process for the recruitment was Conclusion General Meeting.
led by David Williams, joint chairman, Following a rigorous selection process, and Anne Quinn, senior independent the committee, having considered the director, on behalf of the nominations relative merits and fit of each candidate, committee.
The Zygos Partnership made a recommendation to the Boards, 1 Zygos, an external search agency, was which was accepted, to appoint Tanya engaged to assist with the selection Fratto as an independent non-executive process.
Zygos helped produce a director with effect from 1 January 2017. detailed candidate specification based on the criteria provided by the committee.
Tanya Fratto was the preferred candidate They conducted a market search and as she has recent and relevant experience benchmarked candidates for the role of remuneration issues, having served before providing detailed profiles for a on the remuneration committees of other longlist of candidates.
FTSE100 companies, and understands the US business environment which The candidates were from a variety of is relevant for Mondi having in recent backgrounds, with a mix of executives times acquired new business operations and portfolio non-executives, all having in America see page 79 for her full business backgrounds with a particular biography.
Her background is also in focus on remuneration committee innovation, sales and marketing and experience and were from a number of engineering across a variety of sectors.
1 The Zygos Partnership does not provide any other services to the Mondi Group.
The Zygos Partnership is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms 92 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Diversity The Boards have adopted a formal diversity policy for the Group which In line with our philosophy of encouraging sets out guidelines for such matters as diversity and excluding discrimination, recruitment, the use of search firms, we provide equal opportunities within succession and annual reviews.
The Groups gender diversity of initiatives continue to be moved forward statistics can be found in the Strategic including a diversity focused external direct report on page 42.
At the end of 2016 we search policy.
had two female directors representing 22% of the composition of the Boards.
Diversity is also an essential part of Mondis Subsequently we have appointed Tanya leadership development programme Fratto such that we currently have 30% with the inclusion of a number of talent female representation on the Boards.
management and development initiatives After the Annual General Meetings in May through the Mondi Academy, including the 2017 this will change to 25% when David implementation of training modules such Hathorn and Anne Quinn step down from as Intercultural Diversity & International the Boards.
While we are committed Business Competence to enhance the to always considering gender diversity understanding and appreciation of the when making appointments, it remains benefits of diversity within the business.
important to ensure diversity is seen in a Employee exchanges where individuals broader context and that we have the right spend time working in different business mix of backgrounds, skills, knowledge units and locations around the Group and experience on our Boards to meet enables them to gain experience of different our business needs and future strategy.
working practices and skills as well as At present the diversity on the Boards is having exposure to different cultures.
appropriate for our current and anticipated The Mondi cultural characteristics future requirements and we constantly incorporate our aim to hire and work review the skills required to meet our effectively with people who differ in race, strategic objectives.
gender, culture, age or background.
As a global organisation operating in We measure our progress through the over 30 countries, diversity forms an use of tools such as our global employee integral part of the way we do business surveys and 360 feedback.
We are committed to In 2016, Mondi joined an LGBT network creating a culture that embraces diversity and consultancy in order to support and provides a working environment that diversity and employee integration for these is flexible and non-discriminatory from colleagues across the business world.
recruitment and people development to reward and our talent management While it is recognised that there are approach.
We strive for an inclusive many challenges and there is more work environment where differences are to do, Mondi believes that continually respected and valued.
We employ, sharing best practice, networking and empower and develop competent people sharing experiences both internally and with the necessary potential required to externally helps us to make good progress.
meet our business needs and maintain a More details can be found on page 42. competitive business advantage.
In South Africa we are committed to making a positive contribution to the process of transformation.
We have taken active steps to meet the requirements of broad-based black economic empowerment BBBEE, including establishing transformation forums in our South African operations to allow our employees to discuss equity and training-related issues and ideas.
