Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 93 Composition In accordance with the Listings Requirements of the JSE, the committee The membership of the committee during DLC audit committee has considered and satisfied itself that the year was unchanged.
John Nicholas Andrew King, Mondis Chief financial officer, remained chair of the committee and, has appropriate expertise and experience.
being an accountant and having, until Andrew is a chartered accountant and recently, been a member of the UK throughout his career has held various Financial Reporting Review Panel, he is finance and business development roles.
considered to have specific recent and The committee has also considered and relevant financial experience.
All committee satisfied itself of the appropriateness of the members have been on the Boards for expertise and adequacy of resources of between five and nine years and have the finance function and expertise of the gained a familiarity and understanding senior management responsible for the During the year the committee has of the sector in which Mondi operates.
worked closely with both Deloitte In addition, they all have appropriate and  knowledge and understanding of financial Role of the committee PwC to facilitate an orderly matters and have commercial expertise and efficient transition of the The committee operates under formal gained from industries with similar capital external audit.
The committee agenda intensive manufacturing, engineering, included the regular matters reserved for its natural resources and technology-focused In addition, we have undertaken review during the annual financial reporting international operations.
The full biographies detailed reviews of the Groups cycle and ensured it has appropriately detailing the experience of each member principal risks including an in discharged its responsibilities during of the committee can be found on page depth review of cyber security the year, having operated in compliance 79.
Tanya Fratto, who was appointed to arrangements which have been with relevant legal, regulatory and the Boards on 1 January 2017, will join the enhanced during the year.
committee in place of Anne Quinn who will John Nicholas step down at the conclusion of the Annual Chairman of the audit committee The committee chairman regularly reports General Meetings in May 2017.
Tanyas to the Boards on the work and output from engineering background and experience meetings and provides any necessary Composition in product innovation and sales and recommendations or advice on matters Meeting marketing, having held positions in product Members Committee attendance of direct relevance to the deliberations of throughout member four meetings management, operations, Six Sigma and the Boards.
the year since in the year supply chain management, mean that she Stephen March 2011 3 is well placed to understand the sector in The evaluation of the committee 1 Harris which Mondi operates.
was carried out as part of the 2016 John Nicholas, October 2009 4 external evaluation see page 89 for chairman more information.
Anne May 2007 4 Quinn 1 Stephen Harris was unable to attend one meeting due to illness Other regular attendees e Chief executive officer e Chief financial officer Approach to regular e Group financial controller financial reporting e Heads of internal audit The committee continually reviews its approach to financial reporting, being aware of the need e South African and UK representatives for transparency and maintaining a focus on from Deloitte long-term value creation.
This has included, in particular, consideration of the continued practice of The committee is constituted as a publishing a quarterly update on trading conditions.
statutory committee in respect of the Having considered the cyclical nature of our duties set out in the South African business, our competitor reporting cycles and our desire to keep the market informed, we are of the Companies Act 2008 and a DLC view that we should continue with this practice.
committee of the Boards in respect We also took into account feedback received from of other duties assigned to it by some of the Groups largest shareholders who have the Boards.
indicated their support of this approach as they find that it bridges the gap between the full reporting periods and provides an update on important market dynamics that affect the sector in which Mondi operates.
94 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report How the committee spent its time Other matters addressed by the committee included: While the work programme largely covered Financial reporting the regular cycle of financial and risk related e Reviewed integrity of all financial announcements e Reviewed accounting policies to be applied for the matters, a material focus for the committee with input provided by the Group financial year ending 31 December 2016. during the year was monitoring progress controller and Deloitte.
e Reviewed new accounting pronouncements with the audit transition from Deloitte to e Reviewed the Mondi Group Integrated report and and any potential impact for the Groups PwC.
The committee has received regular financial statements for tone and consistency and financial reporting.
reports both directly from the PwC audit considered whether the report as a whole was fair, e Reviewed the going concern basis of accounting partners and from the chairman of the balanced and understandable see page 98 for and the longer-term viability statement see page more information.
committee who has been monitoring 39 for more information.
the arrangements see page 99 for e Reviewed and discussed the audit management letter.
The other material area of review and consideration for the committee was the External audit matters implementation of new regulation and e Monitored the implementation of the transition e Undertook a thorough review of the Groups policy governance relating to audit rotation and from Deloitte to PwC see page 99 for and procedures for the provision of non-audit more information.
services and implemented changes in response to tendering, the rules on audit committees new regulation.
and the provision of non-audit services.
e Reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte see page 100 for e Received a report at each meeting of any nonThe committees terms of reference more information.
audit services covering both Deloitte and PwC in together with Mondis policies and order to monitor auditor independence.
e Reviewed and approved the external audit plan, procedures in these areas have all been taking account of the scope, materiality and audit e Reviewed and agreed the engagement letters and updated in line with the new regulation and risks and considered and agreed the audit fees.
the spirit of revised governance principles.
e Recommended to the Boards the appointment of e Held a meeting with Deloitte without management PwC for the 2017 audit to be put to shareholders present, the committee chair also engaged With four business combinations SIMET, at the Annual General Meetings.
regularly with the audit partners.
Uralplastic, Kalenobel and Lebedyan during the year the committee has also focused on the accounting treatment of Risk management and internal controls these acquisitions see note 23 to the e Undertook a detailed review of the Groups risk e At each committee meeting undertook a more inFinancial statements for more information.
management policy, plan and tolerance levels and depth review of three or four of the most significant of the process to assess the risks see page 32 to Group risks.
e Biannual presentations received on IT risk e Reviewed the effectiveness of the risk and internal management and cyber security seepage 95 for control management systems see page 32 to 38 more information.
Internal audit matters e Reviewed and agreed the internal audit plan, e Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal confirming the focus on key risk areas and audit team and the implementation of adequate cover of all material operations.
recommendations from the 2015 Ernst & Young LLP report on the function.
e Received reports from the head of internal audit at each meeting see page 101 for more information.
e Held a meeting with the heads of internal audit without management present.
Governance and other e For JSE purposes, reviewed the appropriateness e Reviewed and responded to the South African and expertise of the Chief financial officer and the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors effectiveness of the finance function see page 93 IRBA proposals for mandatory audit firm rotation for more information.
and the potential implications for the Group if introduced.
e Monitored and reviewed the continued implementation of those elements of the Groups e Reviewed the Groups competition compliance Code of Business Ethics reserved for review programme and work of the divisional by the committee, as well as the supporting compliance committees.
framework of the Business Integrity Policy.
e Reviewed the committees terms of reference, performance and work programme.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 95 Interaction with regulators UK Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit UK FRC Thematic Review of Tax Disclosures JSE Limited Quality Review During the year the FRC conducted a thematic review Periodically the JSE undertakes reviews of company The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to of companies tax reporting.
Mondi was advised that reports in a similar manner to that of the FRC.
the tax disclosures in its December 2015 accounts The last review undertaken was of Mondis 2013 review the audit of the 2015 Mondi plc financial statements as part of their 2015 annual inspection of would be included in the sample.
During 2016 the committee reviewed a FRC advised Mondi that, having completed their communication from the JSE outlining its proactive audit firms.
The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are review, they had no substantive issues to raise monitoring process.
required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected level.
The chairman of the audit UK FRC Corporate Reporting Review committee received a full copy of the findings of the The last review by the FRC Corporate Reporting Audit Quality Review team and has discussed these Review team of the Mondi Group Integrated report with Deloitte.
The audit committee confirms that there and financial statements was for the year ended were no significant areas for improvement identified 31 December 2013.
Following their review and within the report.
The audit committee is also satisfied Mondis responses the FRC advised in January 2015 that there is nothing within the report which might that they had closed their enquiries.
have a bearing on the audit appointment.
Information technology risk The committee now undertakes, on a biannual basis, a detailed review of the information technology risk and mitigation actions.
The Groups IT risk management framework has been explained with comfort obtained that it is holistic and robust, having been audited by independent third parties.
The committee reviewed the IT risk register confirming that all aspects had been covered security, compliance and availability and noting that the top five risks were all in the area of cyber security.
It was further noted that cyber security was driving the main mitigation activities, particularly in the areas of network design and security architecture.
The committee was encouraged by the level of focus being given to cyber security within the organisation, especially with the increase being seen in fraud attempts.
The emphasis being placed on employee awareness, education and testing was welcomed by the committee.
Overall the committee concluded that the Groups IT risk management was effective and that management ensured that it was subject to continuous monitoring and improvement see page 38 for more information.
96 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Internal control The Groups risk and internal control management framework, embedded in all key operations, is designed to address all the significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance-related risks that could undermine our ability to achieve our business objectives in the future and is managed within risk tolerance levels defined by the Boards.
Full details of Mondis risk and internal control management framework can be found in the Strategic report on pages 32 to 38.
The committee has reviewed the risk management process and the Groups system of internal controls.
The committee considers that the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
Significant issues related to the financial statements The committee has considered each of the following items based on discussions with, and submissions by, management and satisfied itself as to the accounting treatment and presentation thereof.
The most significant items were discussed with the external auditors during the planning stage and on completion of the audit.
These issues are broadly similar to those addressed by the committee during 2015.
The key considerations in relation to the 2016 financial statements were: Matter considered Action Special items are those financial items which the Group believes The committee has critically reviewed each item presented by should be separately disclosed on the face of the income management as being special to ensure that the items are in line statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial with the Groups accounting policy.
performance achieved by the Group.
The classification of an item The committee considered both the quantification and as special is based on judgement and generally must exceed presentation of special items.
10 million and or be material in the context of the current years financial performance.
Subsequent adjustments to items previously The committee has reviewed the adequacy of the descriptions reported as special items continue to be reflected as special items of the special items in the Financial statements and the Strategic in future periods even if they do not exceed the reporting threshold.
The net special item charge of 38 million before tax included The committee has also considered whether any significant restructuring and closure costs and related impairments for transactions that were not classified as special were the closure of an industrial bags plant in southern Belgium: the appropriately classified in the Financial statements and restructuring of the release liner operations in the US, including appropriately described in the Strategic report.
the planned closure of one plant: and the impairment of newsprint assets, partial reversal of the impairment of the uncoated fine paper machine and related restructuring charges in South Africa.
Details of the special items are included in the Strategic report on page 49 and in note 3 of the Financial statements.
The Groups operations are capital-intensive and, in 2016, the At the time of approval of significant capital projects, the Boards Group incurred 465 million in capital expenditure.
approve the underlying assumptions including the estimated useful lives of these investments.
Significant progress was made on a number of the Groups major capital projects, including the completion of two projects in South The committee has interrogated management and satisfied Africa to upgrade the woodyard and enable the production of itself of the appropriateness of the assumptions made, the unbleached kraftliner.
consistency of those assumptions compared to the initial approval and the basis on which any changes were made.
These projects are more fully described in the Strategic report on pages 16 and 17 and details of the Groups tangible fixed assets The committee has also considered the internal audit reports are provided in note 10 of the financial statements.
completed in respect of the Groups procurement and capital expenditure processes, in which there were no significant weaknesses identified.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 97 Matter considered Action In addition to property, plant and equipment of 3,788 million, The committee considered a report from management goodwill of 681 million is included as an asset in the statement of describing potential impairment indicators of tangible and financial position.
intangible assets and the outcomes of related impairment tests.
As set out in the accounting policies, the Group performs an The committee also considered a report from management on impairment review at least annually and whenever there is any the outcomes of the annual goodwill impairment test.
indication that certain of its assets may be impaired.
The critical underlying assumptions applied were reviewed by See notes 10 and 11 of the Financial statements.
the committee and compared to the Groups budget and the current macroeconomic environment.
The committee considered the sensitivities underlying the primary assumptions to determine the consequences that reasonably possible changes in such assumptions may have on the recognised value of the underlying assets.
The committee has satisfied itself that, except for the impairments related to closures and restructuring of operations, there was no impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill or other intangible assets.
The Group has operations in a number of countries each with a The committee receives regular reports from management different tax system.
about new legislative developments that may impact the Groups tax positions.
The Group is regularly subject to routine tax audits and provisions are made based on the tax laws in the relevant country and the The committee has considered reports from management expected outcomes of any negotiations or settlements.
outlining the Groups most significant tax exposures, including ongoing tax audits and litigation, and has reviewed the related The Groups recognition of deferred tax assets, relating to future tax provisions recognised by management, satisfying itself utilisation of accumulated tax losses, is dependent on the future that these are appropriate and the risk of new unexpected profitability and performance of the underlying businesses.
See note 7 of the Financial statements.
The committee has considered a report from management outlining the key judgements relating to the recognition of deferred tax assets and satisfied itself that the assumptions made are reasonable and consistent from year to year.
Significant judgement is required in determining the assumptions The assumptions applied in the valuation of the forestry assets to be applied for the valuation of the Groups forestry assets and and retirement benefits were reviewed by the committee.
Such assumptions are based, as The committee considered the basis on which these far as possible, on observable market data and, in the case of the assumptions were determined, and evaluated the assumptions retirement benefit obligations, the input and advice of actuaries.
by comparing them to prior years and considering market The most significant assumptions and sensitivities are disclosed developments during 2016. in note 13 for forestry assets and 22 for retirement benefits in The committee satisfied itself that the assumptions, and the theFinancial statements.
changes to those assumptions when compared to the year ended 31 December 2015, were appropriate.
During 2016, the Group concluded a number of business The committee considered a report from management combinations, as described in the Strategic report and note 23 describing the process taken in conducting the identification ofthe Financial statements.
and valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations.
On acquisition, the Group determined the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on its own experience The committee satisfied itself that the fair values were inthe industry and the input of experts.
appropriate and that the resulting goodwill recognised in these transactions was appropriate and did not include any unrecorded assets or liabilities.
The committee also considered a report on changes to the initial fair values recognised on acquisitions completed during 2015 and satisfied itself as to the appropriateness of the adjustments made.
98 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Fair, balanced and understandable A key role of the committee is to ensure Although oversight and review of material that the interests of shareholders are financial reporting matters are considered protected, in particular that there is throughout the year, at the request of robust financial reporting with good the Boards, the committee assessed the internal controls in place and appropriate integrity of the Groups Integrated report accounting practices and policies and financial statements 2016 and the combined with sound judgement.
clarity, completeness and consistency of disclosures.
Process Oversight through the year Review confirmed Recommendation e Review of applicable e Well documented planning and e The committee accounting policies and procedures for the preparation of reported its findings pronouncements and the report and conclusion to their application the Boards e Collaborative approach between e Review of regular financial all parties required to contribute to results and announcements the report e Reports from Group financial e Basis of preparation consistent with controller and Deloitte financial reporting throughout the year e Reports from internal audit e All significant issues had been considered e Messaging was consistent particularly the narrative reflecting the financials Review included Conclusion e Provision of an outline plan including content e After completion of the detailed review and structure, design concepts and timetable the committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Groups Integrated report e Consideration of regulatory and governance and financial statements 2016 were fair, requirements for reporting balancedand understandable e Review of detailed reports from the Group e That the report accurately reflected the financial controller and Deloitte providing the information shareholders would require in opportunity for debate and challenge order to assess the Groups performance, e Summaries of areas where management business model and strategy judgements had been made e That the use of any alternative performance e Consideration of going concern and longermeasures contained in our report term viability assist in presenting a fair review of the e Separate meeting with Deloitte without Groups business management present e Sufficient opportunity to review drafts Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 99 External audit External audit transition Audit firm: Deloitte & Touche in South Africa and Deloitte LLP in the UK together Background addition to divisional and functional Deloitte personnel.
The workshop was a critical The audit tender process undertaken step in developing relationships across by the committee was explained in Tenure: 9 years, appointed in July 2007, the teams and focused on the transition detail in our 2015 report.
A key priority although Deloitte audited Mondi prior to activities and key actions.
for the committee during 2016 has this when Mondi was part of the Anglo been monitoring progress with the American Group Shadowing transition plan in the lead up to the UK audit partner and term: Nicola legal appointment of PwC as the PwC shadowed Deloitte during both the Mitchell, the 2016 audit is her fifth Groups auditor.
half-yearly review and year-end audit.
South African audit partner and term: They have also attended some audit As a committee we have appreciated the Shelly Nelson, the 2016 audit is her second committee meetings as observers.
considerable time and effort that both the management teams and PwC have put Audit tender: as reported in 2015, a Communication in to the transition process together with full tender process was undertaken Effective communication is key to a the support provided by the Deloitte team.
culminating in the decision to recommend smooth transition and a major part We believe that to date the transition has the appointment of PwC as auditors after of the planning has involved regular been thorough and effective.
the conclusion of the 2016 audit, with Andy engagement between the PwC teams Kemp to be appointed as the UK audit and key Mondi personnel across the Planning partner and Michal Kotz as the South Group.
PwC has also implemented their African audit partner.
A detailed transition plan was put in own internal information sharing via a place highlighting key milestones for the The committee confirms its compliance monthly newsletter.
It is also planned that, process.
A material part of the planning for the financial year ending 31 December before their appointment, PwC will meet has been building up a knowledge and 2016 with the provisions of The Statutory individually with each of the non-executive understanding of Mondi.
This is being Audit Services for Large Companies directors in order to understand their achieved in a number of ways but Market Investigation Mandatory Use of perspectives on the Group and their primarily includes meetings with key Competitive Tender Processes and Audit expectations of the external audit.
personnel at a Group and divisional Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. level.
PwC are also creating The PwC Independence The committee also confirmed that Deloitte Academy for Mondi which is a platform PwC confirmed that they had taken & Touche is included in the JSE list of for PwC to share key information about appropriate actions to meet all external accredited auditors.
the Group across the global PwC team in independence requirements by 30 June the year of appointment.
A small number of allowable is monitoring progress against the plan.
services continued after June but were completed prior to the year end to enable Workshop these to transition to new providers.
In September 2016 a two-day workshop A clear procedure has been agreed was attended by 40 people from both the regarding the review of any proposed Mondi and PwC teams and representing non-audit services going forward.
six key Mondi operating locations in 100 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report External audit independence, objectivity and effectiveness Key outputs A formal framework for the assessment e Regular meetings held between the of the effectiveness of the external audit chairman of the committee and the e The quality of the audit partners and process and quality of the audit has been audit engagement partners team were confirmed with no material adopted by the committee, covering all issues raised in the feedback received e Reviewed feedback from committee aspects of the audit service provided by members including views on how e The audit had been well planned and Deloitte.
While part of the assessment Deloitte has supported the work of the delivered with work completed on is managed annually, it is treated as an committee and their communication schedule and management comfortable ongoing review throughout the cycle.
with the committee that any key findings had been raised sufficiently early in the process, active e Considered the effectiveness of Mondis Evaluation focus engagement on misstatements and policies and procedures for maintaining e Robustness of audit process appropriate judgements on materiality auditor independence e Audit quality, including quality controls e Deloitte continued to demonstrate a Management strong understanding of the Group and e Audit partners and team, including skills, had identified and focused on the areas character and knowledge e Feedback from engagement with the of greatest risk Chief financial officer, Group financial e Independence and objectivity controller and heads of internal audit e Deloittes reporting to the committee e Formal reporting e Feedback from questionnaires issued at was clear, open and thorough, including corporate, divisional and business unit explanations of the rationale for Inputs level to those personnel involved with particular conclusions as appropriate Audit committee the audit e It was confirmed that there had been an e Continual monitoring of audit appropriate level of challenge Deloitte performance throughout the year e Matters identified for improvement in the e Provided the committee with e Reviewed and agreed the audit plan prior year had been addressed confirmation that they operate in e Reviewed the quality of reporting to accordance with the ethical standards Conclusion the committee, the level of challenge required of audit firms and professional scepticism and the The committee, having considered all e Confirmed the policies and procedures understanding demonstrated by Deloitte relevant matters, has concluded that it they have in place to maintain of the business of the Group is satisfied that auditor independence, their independence objectivity and effectiveness have e Reviewed the coordination between the been maintained.
South African and UK audit partners, Regulators the quality of the audit team, technical e The UK Financial Reporting Councils skills and experience and the allocation FRC 2015 16 report on Audit Quality of resources during the audit Inspections included a review of audits e Considered the interaction with carried out by Deloitte.
A specific review management and the level of challenge of Deloittes audit of the Mondi Group was undertaken by the FRC see page 95 for more information Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 101 Non-audit services The breakdown of the fees paid to Deloitte, The committee also monitors the staffing including the split between audit and and resources available to the internal One of the key pieces of work undertaken non-audit fees, is included in note 4 to audit function and the quality of those by the committee during the year was thefinancial statements on page 156. resources.
In 2015 an external review of a detailed review of the policy and The non-audit fees for 2016 represent 14% the internal audit function was undertaken procedures relating to the provision of of the audit fee paid.
by Ernst & Young LLP with a full report non-audit services by the external auditor.
The review The committee considered not only the Internal audit concluded that the internal audit function is new audit framework regulations from the fit for purpose and meeting its mandate to The audit committee has primary EU but also governance requirements provide assurance primarily in the financial responsibility for monitoring and reviewing and guidance issued by the UK regulator.
Of particular the scope and effectiveness of the Groups This resulted in a new, more restrictive, note was the clear affirmation that the internal audit function and appoints and non-audit services policy being adopted, function is independent and objective.
discharges the heads of internal audit the revised approval processes for any Some recommendations were put forward equivalent of the chief audit executive as non-audit services being put in place, mainly in the areas of knowledge sharing envisaged by the King Code.
The heads requiring all such requests to be approved and the greater use of technology by the of internal audit have direct access to, by the chairman of the committee, and team.
The way in which the team have and responsibility to, the committee and the updating of the committees terms of been addressing the recommendations work closely with the committee in liaison reference.
In order to limit the non-audit in the report has been monitored and with Deloitte.
services provided by the external auditor, reviewed by the committee.
The committee the policy restricts those services by type Each year the committee considers and has concluded that the heads of internal and monetary limit.
approves the internal audit plan which is audit provide appropriate leadership of designed to focus on the Groups key risks Where pre-approval is required the the internal audit function which remains to ensure that they are managed effectively business must submit a formal request effective in carrying out its remit.
within the context of our business setting out the objectives, scope of work, objectives and that appropriate internal likely fee level and the rationale for requiring controls are in place.
The committee the work to be carried out by the Groups ensures that all material operations are external auditor rather than another service covered and that there is an appropriate provider.
Each request is reviewed, and degree of financial and geographical where appropriate challenged, before being coverage.
Every Mondi operation is visited passed for pre-approval.
at least once every five years with all major The committee monitors compliance plants audited annually.
Reports are given with the policy, receiving reports at each at each committee meeting providing an meeting detailing all approved non-audit update on activities, progress against services.
This enables regular consideration plan, results from audits carried out and and oversight of a key threat to auditor managements response to address independence and objectivity.
During 2016 any areas highlighted for improvement.
the committee not only monitored any The committee will consider deviations non-audit services provided by Deloitte from plan as the need arises during the but also those services provided by Speakout year, usually in response to a material PwC.
Where those services would be acquisition or change in the Groups risk The Group has a confidential reporting hotline categorised as non-audit services at the called Speakout operated by an independent profile highlighted through audit reports and time of PwCs appointment as auditors, the third party.
Speakout, monitored by the audit through matters raised via the confidential committee, is a simple, accessible and confidential committee has been closely monitoring the reporting hotline, Speakout.
The committee channel through which our employees, customers, transition and ensuring that any outstanding regularly challenges the nature and speed suppliers, managers or other stakeholders can service would be completed by the end of raise concerns about conduct that seems contrary of managements response to issues the year.
It makes communication raised in audits and to Speakout messages channels available to any person in the world who in order to be satisfied that this has The majority of non-audit services are audithas information about unethical practices in the Groups operations.
During 2016, we received been appropriate to the circumstances.
related assurance and tax compliance 335 Speakout messages 2015: 133 relating to Maintaining sound oversight and control of services.
During 2016 examples were 76 cases 2015: 88 These covered a number of activities through the use of internal audit the provision of an audit comfort letter topics: in particular the reporting of HR-related reviews is considered by the committee to concerns, potential business irregularities and for the EMTN programme, certification perceived fraudulent activities.
Although the be a key element of its work.
requirement of electricity usage for the number of messages increased significantly, this Bulgarian government local requirement was due to multiple messages for some cases that this be carried out by the statutory with total cases down compared to the previous year.
The committee receives a report at each auditor, advice in connection with meeting of Speakout messages received in the applications for government grants in period since the prior meeting and ensures that South Africa relating to capital expenditure appropriate investigation into each message has been undertaken and responses given with and assistance with tax submissions for actions taken where any allegation proves to have expatriate employees.
