Board of Directors Bruce Carnegie-Brown Peter Plumb Rob Rowley Chairman of the Board and Chairman of Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director the Nomination Committee and Senior Independent Director Term of Office: Appointed to the Board as a Term of Office: Peter was appointed to the Term of Office: Rob was appointed to the Board Non-Executive Director in April 2010 and became Board in January 2009 and became Chief as a Non-Executive Director in September 2007 Chairman of the Board in April 2014.
Peter will step and became Senior Independent Director in April down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015.
Rob will step down from the Board at the Committee Membership: Bruce chairs the AGM in May.
conclusion of the AGM in May.
Nomination Committee and attends meetings of the Risk, Remuneration and Audit Committees by Committee Membership: Peter attends Committee Membership: Rob is a member of invitation.
meetings of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and the Audit, Nomination and Risk Committees.
Skills and Experience: Bruce has over 30 years Skills and Experience: Rob has experience in of experience of the financial services sector in Skills and Experience: Peter has experience in finance and international businesses having both executive and non-executive roles.
He has commercial strategy and leading international been finance director at Reuters plc 1990 to previously held senior executive positions in consumer facing businesses.
He was previously 2001 and having held senior management private equity as managing partner of 3i Group, UK managing director of dunnhumby Limited.
positions at Reuters prior to that.
He has been a in insurance as chief executive officer of Marsh Before that, he was general manager of Europe non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey plc Ltd and in banking as a managing director of JP Disney Consumer Products, international since 2010 where he is the senior independent Morgan, and non-executive roles as chairman of director of Dyson Appliances Limited and held non-executive director and chairs its audit Aon UK Ltd 2012 to 2015, director of Close senior commercial roles at PepsiCo International.
He has been a non-executive director Brothers Group plc 2006 to 2014 and director of Peter has an MBA from IMD in Switzerland and a of Morgan Advanced Materials plc since 2014 Catlin Group Ltd 2010 to 2014.
BSc Civil Engineering from the University of where he chairs its audit committee and a Birmingham.
External Appointments: Bruce is vice chairman non-executive director of Greene King plc since and lead independent director of Banco External Appointments: Peter is a non- 2014 where he is the senior independent Santander SA and a non-executive director of executive director of The Co-operative Group non-executive director.
Santander UK plc and of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited.
External Appointments: Rob is a non-executive Group plc.
director of Taylor Wimpey plc, Morgan Advanced Materials plc, Greene King plc and Camelot UK Lotteries Limited.
Matthew Price Sally James Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Risk Committee Term of Office: Matthew was appointed to the Term of Office: Sally was appointed to the Board in April 2014.
Board as a Non-Executive Director in April 2013.
Committee Membership: Matthew attends Committee Membership: Sally chairs the Risk meetings of the Audit and Risk Committees by Committee and is a member of the Remuneration, invitation.
Skills and Experience: Matthew has experience Skills and Experience: Sally has experience of in finance and in consumer facing businesses.
He the financial services sector having been a nonwas formerly finance director at Costa Coffee executive director of UBS Limited 2009 to 2015 2009 to 2014 and managing director of its and before that held a number of senior legal business in China.
Matthew previously held roles in investment banks in London and Chicago senior finance and commercial roles at Sodexo including Managing Director and EMEA General and J Sainsbury including retail finance director Counsel at UBS Investment Bank from 2001 to and property director.
She has also been a non-executive director chartered accountant, having trained and of Rotork plc since 2012 where she chairs the qualified with Deloitte in its corporate finance Audit Committee and a non-executive director of practice.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International since 2016.
External Appointments: Sally is a non-executive director of Rotork plc and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International.
38 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s Andrew Fisher Genevieve Shore Robin Freestone Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration and Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee Term of Office: Andrew was appointed to the Term of Office: Genevieve was appointed to the Term of Office: Robin was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in August Board as a Non-Executive Director in September Board as a Non-Executive Director in August 2014.
He became Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2016.
Committee Membership: Andrew chairs the Committee Membership: Genevieve is a Remuneration Committee and is a member of member of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and Committee Membership: Robin chairs the the Nomination and Risk Committees.
Audit Committee and is a member of the Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Skills and Experience: Andrew has experience Skills and Experience: Genevieve brings digital, of building digital, media and entrepreneurial technology and commercial expertise to the Skills and Experience: Robin has experience of businesses.
He is currently executive chairman Group from a career in the media, publishing leading global and digital businesses, having and was previously chief executive officer of and technology sectors.
Most recently she was been chief financial officer of Pearson PLC from Shazam Entertainment Limited.
Prior to that, chief product and marketing officer of Pearson 2006 to 2015.
Previously he was deputy chief Andrew was European managing director of PLC and prior to that was director of digital financial officer at Pearson and prior to that, he Infospace Inc and founder and managing strategy and chief information officer.
Genevieve held a number of senior financial positions at director of TDLI.
Andrew has been a is also a non-executive director at Santander UK Amersham plc 2000 to 2004, Henkel Ltd 1995 non-executive director of Marks and Spencer plc, Next 15 Communications Group plc and Arup to 2000 and ICI plc 1984 to 1995.
Robin has Group plc since December 2015.
She is an advisory board member been a non-executive director of Smith & for Lego Education and has advised and invested Nephew plc since September 2015 and will External Appointments: Andrew is executive in education technology start ups and works with become chair of their audit committee on 1 chairman of Shazam Entertainment Limited and female executives as a coach and mentor.
He is also a non-executive director a non-executive director of Marks and Spencer of Michael Kors Holdings Limited.
External Appointments: Genevieve is a non-executive director of Santander UK plc, Next External Appointments: Robin is a non- 15 Communications Group plc and Arup Group executive director of Smith & Nephew plc and Limited.
She is a member of the advisory board Michael Kors Holdings Limited.
He sits on the of Lego Education.
advisory board to the ICAEWs Financial Reporting Committee.
Darren Drabble Company Secretary and Group General Counsel Term of Office: Darren was appointed Company Secretary in June 2007.
Skills and Experience: Darren has a corporate and commercial law background originally qualifying as a solicitor with Addleshaw Goddard LLP before working as a senior legal counsel at United Utilities Group PLC.
Darren joined the Group as Company Secretary and Group General Counsel in May 2007.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 39
