Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee plays a key role in monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, reviewing the material financial reporting judgements and assessing the internal control environment.
Committee membership I succeeded Rob Rowley as chair of the Audit Committee in April 2016 and would like to thank him for overseeing the improvements since flotation in 2007 to ensure we have the good control environment we now have in place.
The other members of the Audit Committee are detailed in the table below.
All the members are Independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and the Board has determined that both Rob Rowley and I have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
I am a qualified accountant and was formerly chief financial officer of Pearson PLC.
I am a non-executive director and member of the audit committee of Smith & Nephew plc and am a member of the advisory board to the ICAEWs Financial Reporting Committee.
Rob Rowley is a qualified accountant and was formerly finance director of Reuters plc.
As a whole the Committee has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates through Genevieve Shores and my digital experience and the financial services experience of Sally James.
Robin Freestone Biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on Chairman of the Audit Committee pages 38 to 39.
Committee members Committee members Eligible to attend Attended Robin Freestone Chairman 4 4 Sally James 4 4 Rob Rowley 4 4 Genevieve Shore 4 3 In 2016, we: Genevieve Shore was unable to attend one meeting for personal reasons u conducted separate tender The secretary to the Committee is Darren Drabble, Company processes for each of taxation Secretary and Group General Counsel.
advice, external audit and internal audit risk: Role u monitored progress on the The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the standardisation of controls: integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes and monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and u monitored progress on the back office programme: risk management systems.
This includes: monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the u focused on financial reporting, Company, any formal announcements relating to the including the processes to make this Companys financial performance and any significant issues Annual Report & Accounts fair, and judgements contained in them: balanced and understandable: reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material u reviewed the effectiveness of financial reporting judgements contained in them: external and internal audit advising the Board on whether the Committee believes this processes and the effectiveness and Annual Report and the Financial Statements contained within appropriateness of our system of it, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and internal controls: and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups strategy, business activities u reviewed the FRCs Guidance on and financial performance: Audit Committees issued in 2016. reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional regulatory requirements: 46 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s developing and implementing a policy on the level and amount of In 2016, we: external auditor non-audit services: advising the Board on the appointment, re-appointment and u reviewed the 31 December 2015 Annual Report and removal of the external auditor and the remuneration and terms of Financial Statements and the half-year statement to engagement of the external auditor: 30 June 2016, together with reports from the monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk external auditors: management systems, including whistleblowing and fraud prevention procedures: u reviewed the trading updates issued in April 2016 reviewing the scope, activities and results of the Groups Internal and November 2016: Audit function: u examined key points of disclosure and presentation reviewing the Audit Committees terms of reference, carrying out an to ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness of the annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory Financial Statements: and operation of the Committee: and reporting to the Board how it has discharged its responsibilities.
u reviewed documentation prepared to support the enhanced going concern and viability statements given on pages 25 to 26.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibilities are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at http: corporate.
com and are available in hard copy form from the Company Secretary.
Significant issues We review our terms of reference annually.
The Audit Committees We identified the issues on page 48 as significant in the context of terms of reference include all matters required by Disclosure and the 2016 Financial Statements.
We consider these areas to be Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
significant taking into account the level of materiality and degree of judgement exercised by management.
We discussed the issues in Committee meetings detail to ensure that the approaches taken were appropriate.
This We met four times in 2016 and the attendance of our members is included reviewing presentations and reports from both shown in the table on page 46.
In order to maintain effective management and the external auditor.
communication between all relevant parties, we invited the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Company Secretary, together with appropriate members of the management team with responsibility for risk and internal control, and the external auditor, to meetings as necessary.
We set time aside periodically to seek the views of the external auditor, in the absence of management.
The external auditor has direct access to me to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit during the year.
In between meetings, I keep in touch with the Chief Financial Officer and external audit partner as well as other members of the management team.
After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that wediscussed.
The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Financial Statements and reports The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups trading statements, half-year reporting and annual Financial Statements.
We do this by considering, among other things, the accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group: the correct application of applicable reporting standards and compliance with broader governance requirements: the approach taken by management to report the key judgemental areas of reporting and the comments of the external auditor on managements chosen approach.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 47 Audit Committee Report continued Issue Committee review Revenue As more fully described on pages 87 We reviewed and assessed managements key controls in relation to the recording of revenue and 99 the majority of the Groups which include: revenue is derived from successa a completeness check which is performed by reconciling all click activity on the website based commercial deals which and ensuring that an invoice has been raised, or revenue has been accrued, where compensate the Group for each appropriate: product sold by a provider to a b a review to compare accrued revenue at the end of the previous month and actual revenue customer referred to it by the Group.
invoiced during the following month, with significant differences investigated to provide The Group recognises this revenue at evidence that revenues are correctly stated: and the point at which a customer leaves c a programme of revenue assurance by the Groups Internal Audit function.
one of the Groups websites, based on the number expected to click through This helps provide us with assurance that revenues are correctly stated by reviewing provider and purchase a product from a systems and controls to ensure that sales made by providers resulting from referrals made by provider site.
the Group have been correctly identified and allocated in the provider systems.
In addition management regularly reviews the quantum and ageing of any accrued revenue balances.
The assessment of the Groups information system which records the clicks, together with the reconciliation of revenue to cash receipts, therefore form a key part of the audit.
The results of KPMGs testing are included in their first half and full-year reports prepared for the Committee and reviewed in detail and discussed with KPMG.
Capitalisation of software and development costs As more fully described on pages 96 The judgements in relation to software and development assets largely relate to the future to 98 of the Groups Financial economic benefits associated with the assets and that capitalisation is in accordance with the Statements the Group holds relevant accounting standards.
We addressed these matters through examining investment intangible asset balances arising from appraisals on key IT projects received from management outlining the basis for the key the capitalisation of certain software assumptions used and were comfortable with managements justification.
We gain comfort that and development costs principally business plans in relation to the capitalised assets have received Board approval.
This is also a relating to developments in the significant risk area for the audit, and therefore KPMG provide to the Committee their comments Groups front end platforms and back on the approach taken by management.
During the year ended 31December 2016 the Committee office data warehouse.
critically reviewed the analysis performed onthe capitalisation of software and development costs and agreed that the projected future cash flows from these assets supports their carrying values.
We also reviewed and considered the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered them to be stable in nature and therefore did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2016 Financial Statements.
Issue Committee review Intangible assets impairment testing We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in preparing the impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate including the decision to impair OnTrees goodwill and MySuitcase within TravelSupermarket.
We also obtained the external auditors views on the appropriateness of the approach and conclusions.
The results of this review were that we were satisfied with the conclusions reached.
Share-based payment charges We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management to ensure that they were appropriate.
We also obtained the external auditors assessment of the calculations.
Enhanced going concern and viability In assessing the validity of the statements detailed on pages 25 to 26, we reviewed the work statements undertaken by management to assess the Groups resilience to the Principal Risks under various scenarios and gained appropriate assurance that sufficient rigour was built into the process.
Potential claims from providers We reviewed the work undertaken by management and external advisers in assessing potential claims from providers against the Group in relation to data transfer errors occurring following technology releases and in assessing costs associated with minimising impact on customers.
We also reviewed the level of insurance cover in place and additional controls introduced during the year and were satisfied with the conclusions reached by management.
Fair, balanced and understandable Report and Accounts One of the key governance requirements is for the Annual Report and the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Ensuring this standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial reporting issues affecting the Group in addition to the focused exercises which take place during the production of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
These focused exercises can be summarised as follows: a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal consistency throughout the Annual Report and Financial Statements: a review by the Committee of all material matters, as reported elsewhere in this Annual Report and Financial Statements: a risk comparison review, which assesses the consistency of the presentation of risks and significant judgements throughout the main areas of risk disclosure in this Annual Report and Financial Statements: 48 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s a review of the balance of good and bad news: and various services are prohibited, including the provision of most types of tax services, valuation services, appraisals or fairness opinions, ensuring it correctly reflects: outsourcing of internal audit services, management functions, the Groups position and performance as described on pages 22 recruitment services and legal services.
to25: the Groups business model, as described on pages 8 to 9: During the year the value of non-audit services provided by the the Groups strategy, as described on pages 10 to 15. external auditor amounted to 0.06m 2015: 0.18m.
Non-audit services amounted to 34% of the value of the audit.
New EU legislation on permitted non-audit services came into effect from 17 The Directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable June 2016 which introduced a permitted non-audit services fee cap Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 77. of 70% of the average audit fee over a consecutive three-year period.
This cap will come into effect for the Group in the financial External auditor year ending 31 December 2020.
A significant proportion of The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the non-audit services during 2016 relates to the following: Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
We reviewing the Groups half-year reporting: also approve the terms of engagement and fees of the external auditor, ensuring they have appropriate audit plans in place and the provision of tax compliance services in relation to direct taxation: that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and and the external auditor.
the provision of advice in relation to the preparation and submission of claims for research and development R&D relief.
In 2016, we: The assurance provided by the external auditor on the items above u reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and is considered by the Group as strictly necessary in the interests of methodology of the audit work to be undertaken by the Group.
The level of non-audit services offered reflects the the external auditor: auditors knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Group has also continued with the appointment of other accountancy firms u evaluated the independence and objectivity of the to provide certain non-audit services to the Group in connection external auditor, having regard to: a a report from with tax, systems and regulatory advice and anticipates that this will the external auditor describing their arrangements continue in 2017. to identify, report and manage conflicts of interest: b the extent and nature of non-audit services During the year, the provision of tax advisory services, due diligence provided by the external auditor: and c considering the tenure of the audit partner, who is required to and regulatory advice was permitted with the Committees prior rotate every five years in line with ethical standards.
approval in line with the approval limits set out above.
The external The audit partner rotated with effect from April auditor was not engaged during the year to provide any services 2015: which may have given rise to a conflict of interest.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit and non-audit fees are not u monitored the quality of services provided by the material relative to the income of the external auditor as a whole external auditor: and therefore that the objectivity and independence of the external u agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid auditor was not compromised.
During 2016, we conducted a tender to the external auditor for the audit of the 2016 process for tax advisory services, appointing Deloitte LLP to provide Financial Statements: these services to the Group with effect from 1 October 2016. u reviewed recommendations made by the external Effectiveness and re-appointment auditor in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response: and We considered the quality and effectiveness of the external audit process, in light of the FRCs Practice Aid for Audit Committees May u conducted a tender process for the external auditor 2015.
The assessment of effectiveness was completed as part of an and reappointed KPMG.
ongoing process of review throughout the year with the Audit Committee seeking assurances and understanding of the auditors Independence and non-audit services approach to the audit.
At the planning meetings for the half-year review and year-end audit, the external auditor was required to We have policies and procedures in place in relation to the provision explain significant risks to audit quality by reference to the of non-audit services by the external auditor which are reviewed Companys specific circumstances and changes in the risks and regularly and have been updated during the year to reflect the new reasons for those changes.
We explored the auditors audit tendering requirements.
This ensures that the Group benefits understanding of our business and industry knowledge which in a cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge and informed their approach to identifying risks.
experience of its auditor whilst also ensuring that the auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
We reviewed the report of the FRCs Audit Quality Review team The external auditor is not permitted to perform any work which relating to KPMG as a firm and discussed the actions taken by KPMG they may later be required to audit or which might affect their in light of the recommendations, including the requirement to objectivity and independence or create a conflict of interest.
Key improve the audit procedures performed to test controls, including points from our internal procedure for approval of work given to the IT controls and the testing of reports relied upon.
We worked with external auditor are: KPMG to understand their judgements about materiality.
We looked no non-audit work may be placed with the external auditor without the at the way they communicated key accounting and audit specific approval of the Audit Committee: judgements.
This approach was supplemented by members of the any approved non-audit services must be in line with the cap limits Committee and senior members of the Finance team who regularly introduced by EU legislation as referred to later : interact with the external auditor completing a detailed questionnaire which included consideration of the audit partner, the non-audit fees are reported regularly to the Committee: and Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 49 Audit Committee Report continued the approach, communication, independence, objectivity, and Internal control reporting.
The results of the questionnaire were then reported to The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the and discussed by the Committee, with the Committee gaining an effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management understanding from respondents of why respondents considered systems.
Through monitoring the effectiveness of its internal the audit team exhibited the qualities included in the responses.
We controls and risk management, the Committee is able to maintain a also assessed the cost effectiveness and value for money aspect of good understanding of business performance, key judgemental the audit.
We reported our findings to the Board as part of our areas and managements decision-making processes.
In 2016, we: We held private meetings with the external auditor as necessary after Committee meetings to review key issues within their sphere of u reviewed the framework and effectiveness of the interest and responsibility.
Groups system of internal control and risk management, including financial, operational and KPMG have acted as the auditor to the Group since 2004 and were compliance controls: appointed as the auditor to the Company on its flotation in 2007.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years to ensure u set targets for the standardisation of controls, with independence.
The KPMG audit partner was rotated on 30 April 90% of controls to be standardised by the end of 2015 in accordance with the FRCs Ethics Standard 3 Revised.
2016: Mindful of the increasing regulatory focus on audit tendering in the u received regular updates from management on UK and EU, we conducted a formal competitive tender exercise internal control improvements and requested that during 2016, in relation to the audit for the Group for the year KPMG reported on progress as part of their half-year ending 31 December 2017.
The tender process was conducted in review work, ensuring the target of 90% of line with the Companies Act 2006 as amended and EU legislation standardisation of controls was met by the end of and involved: the year: identifying firms with appropriate experience and skills to tender: u monitored and reviewed managements progress on issuing a request to tender to firms identified together with an improvements to back office systems and processes: information pack: u reviewed comprehensive reports from the external meetings between management and each firm taking part in the tender auditor, KPMG, of the results of their controls testing process to enable the firms to understand the Group: as part of the external audit: and submission of tender proposals followed by presentations from each firm attended by management, the Risk Committee Chairman and me: u reported to the Board on our evaluation of the operation of the Groups internal control and risk consideration of proposals by the Audit Committee resulting in a management system, informed by reports from recommendation to the Board identifying the first and second choice Internal Audit and KPMG.
candidate firms with justifications for those choices: and the Board approving the Audit Committees recommendation to put a resolution to shareholders recommending the re-appointment of KPMG We consider the adequacy of managements response to matters LLP as the external auditor together with their terms of engagement and raised and the implementation of recommendations made.
remuneration at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Boards statement on internal control and risk management can As part of the tender process we also considered the length of be found on pages 43 to 44.
KPMGs tenure and the results of the detailed questionnaire when assessing their continued effectiveness and independence.
We continue to remain satisfied with the work of KPMG and that they continue to remain independent and objective.
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditor has confirmed its independence as auditor of the Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
We have therefore complied with the requirement to ensure the external audit contract is tendered within the 10 years prescribed by EU and UK legislation and the Codes recommendation.
We confirm we have complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
50 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Internal Audit Audit Committee effectiveness The Group has an Internal Audit function which reviews financial, In 2016 we carried out our evaluation of Audit Committee operational and regulatory matters.
effectiveness with Directors serving on the Committee and members of the finance and executive management teams completing a questionnaire.
The questionnaire focused on areas Internal Audit such as composition, how the committee operates, professional In 2016, we: development of members, oversight of financial reporting, oversight The Group has an Internal Audit function which reviews financial, u continued to oversee investment in the Internal of risk management and internal control and oversight of internal operational and regulatory matters.
Audit function, recognising that regulation in and external audit.
The responses were then discussed at a particular, as price comparison continues to become Committee meeting.
We also reviewed its progress against actions a more significant part of the distribution chain of identified in the 2015 evaluation: financial services, will become more important: 2015 evaluation actions update u reviewed the rolling twelve-month Internal Audit plan which defines the scope of work the Internal The following actions were identified during the 2015 evaluation: Audit function will undertake ensuring it is aligned a continued focus on the automation of controls we have monitored to key risks of the business: this as part of the progress on the back office systems: u reviewed results from audits performed including a continued focus on the effectiveness of risk mitigation controls we any unsatisfactory audit findings and related action have received regular updates from Internal Audit on their testing of plans: controls: and u reviewed open audit actions, together with further enhancements to our internal control and internal audit monitoring progress against the actions: capability as part of the tender processes in 2016, we invited a number of firms to tender for parts of the internal audit services.
This was u reviewed the assurance map to ensure there is clear, awarded to .
comprehensive risk and assurance coverage: u tendered part of internal audit services with the 2016 evaluation actions appointment of  who will now work alongside our internal team to provide Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2017 additional support on internal audit services relating include: to IT and technology: continued focus on internal controls over technology developments following appointment of  to co-source the u met with the head of Internal Audit without Internal Audit function: management present: and monitor and ensure appropriate resources are available to the Internal u conducted an assessment of the Internal Audit Audit function: and function.
continued focus on automation of controls.
Training The Audit Committee receives or reviews guidance as appropriate Whistleblowing during the year.
The Group has a whistleblowing process including an external confidential reporting hotline which enables employees of the Group to raise, in confidence, concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other operational matters or inappropriate In 2016, we: personal behaviours in the workplace.
u received updates from our external auditor, KPMG, on financial reporting developments: In 2016, we: u reviewed Companies Act 2006 and EU requirements in relation to conducting tenders for audit services: u reviewed the controls in place to mitigate against and fraud risks: and u reviewed the latest FRC Guidance on Audit u reviewed reports at each meeting from the Company Committees.
Secretary and Group General Counsel on: a socialisation of the external confidential reporting hotline, email and internet arrangements: and b whistleblowing incidents and their outcomes.
Overview of Committee activities for 2017 Internal control will continue to be our priority for 2017, moving standarised controls to automation of controls.
The Board approved a new ERP system in 2016 and, once this has been implemented, Risk Committee will provide an opportunity for automation of controls.
We will also The Group established a separate Risk and Compliance function in continue our focus on the back office programme and further 2014 headed by the Chief Risk Officer.
A separate Risk Committee development of our assurance and internal audit processes.
was also established in 2014 which is chaired by Sally James.
The Risk Committee operates separately but alongside the Audit This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Committee.
A separate report of the work and responsibilities of the Risk Committee is set out on pages 54 to 56.
Robin Freestone Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2017 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 51
