Corporate Governance Report Governance framework Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Board Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Leadership Chairman This section looks at the roles and responsibilities of our Board I am responsible for: members.
leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role: The role of the Board promoting the highest standards of corporate governance: facilitating effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and We are responsible for the long-term success of encouraging active engagement by all Directors, with the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, with the overall aim of appropriate level of challenge by all Directors: delivering shareholder value over the long term.
Principally, we ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information achieve this through: and is consulted on all matters important to it: and setting and monitoring strategy and ensuring the necessary ensuring the Company maintains effective communication with resources are in place: shareholders and communicating their views to the Board.
providing entrepreneurial leadership within an effective risk management framework: and reviewing management performance.
Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: In setting and monitoring strategy, we have regard to the impact leading the performance and management of the Group: that those decisions will have on the Groups obligations to various proposing strategies, business plans and policies to the Board: stakeholders, such as shareholders, employees, our regulators and ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions: the wider community.
maintaining an effective framework of internal controls and risk management: and While the Board is not managing the day-to-day operations of the leading, motivating and monitoring performance of the Companys Group, key decisions and matters are reserved for approval of the executive management and focusing on succession planning for the Board and are set out in our terms of reference.
These include the executive management.
setting of, and changes to, Group strategy, approval of major acquisitions or disposals, determination of interim dividends and The Non-Executive Directors recommendation of final dividends, approval of budget and financial results, and carrying out an annual review of the effectiveness of risk Each Non-Executive Director is responsible for: management and internal control systems.
bringing experience and independent judgement to the Board: and constructively challenging and helping develop proposals on We review the matters reserved to the Board annually and the strategy.
current matters reserved are available on our website at http: corporate.
The Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is an Independent Non-Executive The Board currently comprises me, as Chairman, five Independent Director who is responsible for: Non-Executive Directors, Rob Rowley, Andrew Fisher, Genevieve meeting with the Companys shareholders and representative Shore, Sally James and Robin Freestone, and two Executive bodies when requested and, if necessary, discussing matters with Directors, Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer and Matthew Price them where it would be inappropriate for those discussions to take Chief Financial Officer.
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading place with either the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer: and the Board and for its effectiveness.
acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Peter Plumb leads the business as Chief Executive Officer and he will be succeeded as Chief Executive Officer by Mark Lewis on 10 Rob Rowley is our Senior Independent Director.
Peter Plumb and Rob Rowley will both step down as from the Board on conclusion of the 2017 AGM and will be Directors on conclusion of the AGM on 4 May 2017.
The division of succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Sally James.
the roles and responsibilities of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is in writing, provides clarity on the distinct responsibilities of each role and has been approved by the Board.
Responsibilities of Board members are set out opposite.
40 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for: In 2016, we: managing the provision of timely, accurate and considered information to the Board: Strategy recommending corporate governance policies and practices to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: u held a two-day off-site strategy meeting to: implementing and communicating corporate governance policies across the Group: and w test and review the corporate strategy: advising the Board and its Committees on corporate governance w review the markets in which we operate: and compliance within the Group and appropriate procedures for the management of their meetings and duties.
w review the regulatory and risk environment in which we operate, with a focus on price comparison The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a websites: and matter for the whole Board.
All Directors are able to consult with w review customer feedback and experience to test the Company Secretary, who is also secretary to all of the Board progress on customer loyalty.
There is also a formal documented procedure by which any Director may take independent professional advice u reviewed the Groups plans against the Boards risk appetite to ensure that our ambitions for the business relating to the performance of any aspects of their duties at the are aligned with our ability to manage risk: Companys expense, which can be facilitated by the Company Secretary.
u scrutinised progress on the investment programme to ensure we remain on track to be best site: Board meetings u reviewed a number of potential acquisitions: I set the Board agendas following consultation with the Chief u approved the annual budget: Executive Officer and with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
This year we reviewed and revised the annual u held deep-dives at our Board meetings into various programme of items for discussion to ensure that all key issues are aspects of the business including new business considered at the appropriate time and the Board is able to opportunities, internal control and risk management, respond to any emerging matters that require Board cyber security, data strategy, MoneySavingExperts Credit consideration.
In 2016 we held nine Board meetings.
At each Club, change management and innovation in mobile and meeting we hold a deep-dive into specific aspects of the business.
apps, including the MoneySuperMarket GO app: and The principal areas of focus for the Board in 2016 are listed in the u reviewed our Group KPIs to ensure they remain aligned section on the right.
to our key strategic priorities.
The Board splits its meetings between its Ewloe, London and Manchester offices.
Board members have the opportunity to meet Governance and interact with employees at various times during the year.
This year we held a product showcase in which the Board and senior u reviewed and revised our annual programme of items leadership team were invited to sit with employees leading for the Board and each of the Committees to consider: innovative projects in order to gain a deeper understanding of u reviewed the outcome of the Board evaluation process, those projects.
Board members also took the opportunity to listen which this year was conducted internally: to employee calls with customers in order to better understand the issues being raised by our customers and how employees deal u oversaw the implementation of upgraded testing with those issues.
Additionally, I meet from time to time with the programmes for new technology releases: Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
u adopted new policies and procedures to meet requirements under the Modern Slavery Act and the Scheduled meetings EU Market Abuse Regulation: and in 2016 Board members Eligible to attend Attended u considered and discussed the principal risks and Bruce Carnegie-Brown 9 9 uncertainties which could impact the Group.
Andrew Fisher 9 9 Robin Freestone 9 9 Leadership and employees Sally James 9 9 Peter Plumb 9 9 u held a deep-dive into the Groups people and culture, Matthew Price 9 9 diversity and talent management and engagement.
Rob Rowley 9 9 Genevieve Shore 9 7 Performance Genevieve Shore was unable to attend two Board meetings for personal reasons u reviewed the strategic and operational performance of Ad hoc conference calls and Committee meetings were also each of the businesses: and convened to deal with specific matters which required attention u considered Group financial performance against between scheduled meetings.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41 Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees Training and information We delegate certain Board responsibilities to our Board Committees Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the which play an important governance role through the work they markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and carry out.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to the regulatory environment through presentations and briefings to the Committee members in advance of each meeting.
The Committee Board from Executive Directors and senior management.
chairmen report formally to the Board on Committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
As part of the annual individual performance evaluation I discuss training and development requirements with each Director.
The The Committees may obtain external professional advice at the Company Secretary maintains a record of individual Directors Companys expense if deemed necessary.
training as well as reviewing the suitability of external courses so that any needs identified through the formal evaluation or during Detailed reports on the activities of the Audit Committee, the year can be addressed.
Nomination Committee and Risk Committee are set out in this Report on pages 46 to 51, 52 to 53 and 54 to 56 respectively.
Details Directors received briefings from the Company Secretary during of the work of the Remuneration Committee together with the 2016 on governance and compliance areas including the EU Market Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee chairman, the Abuse Regulation, Modern Slavery and Gender Pay Gap reporting Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration are requirements.
set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 73.
To ensure that Directors are able to fully acquaint themselves with current trading and matters requiring discussions and decisions, Effectiveness comprehensive Board papers and Committee papers are circulated The composition of our Board is kept under review by the electronically approximately one week prior to scheduled meetings.
Nomination Committee to ensure that it retains the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to meet the needs of the business.
Directors, may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent Details of the skills and experience of individual Directors are set out professional advice at the Companys expense.
Rob Rowley stepped down as chairman of the Audit Committee on Independence of Non-Executive Directors conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2016 and was The Board considers that I was independent on appointment as succeeded by Robin Freestone.
Rob Rowley will step down from the Chairman and considers Rob Rowley, Andrew Fisher, Genevieve Board as a Non-Executive Director on conclusion of the 2017 Shore, Sally James and Robin Freestone to be independent, being Annual General Meeting and will be succeeded as Senior independent in character and judgement and free from Independent Director by Sally James.
During 2017, we will appoint relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could an Independent Non-Executive Director to replace Rob Rowley.
appear to affect, their judgement.
In October 2016 we announced the appointment of Mark Lewis as Conflicts of interest Chief Executive Officer.
Mark joins the Board as an Executive Director on 13 March 2017 and will succeed Peter Plumb as Chief As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of Executive Officer on 10 April 2017. association enable Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest.
The Company has a formal procedure for notification and The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the Board authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new Director in 2016 and recommended that the Board currently had the right or prior to a new conflict arising.
This procedure enables nonbalance of skills, knowledge and experience to meet the needs of conflicted Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or the business but is mindful of the need for refreshing of the Board.
reviewing authorisation and requires the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when Induction of a new Director necessary.
The Board has complied with this procedure during the year.
On appointment, each Director receives a tailored induction to suit the individuals background and experience.
Mark Lewis induction Performance evaluation will include: an induction pack including details of Board meetings and Board evaluation procedures, recent analyst and broker reports, recent Board and We undertake a performance evaluation of the Board each year.
An Committee minutes, matters reserved to the Board, a briefing on external evaluation is carried out every three years.
directors duties and responsibilities in addition to other key policies and procedures in support of the Companys business practice: training from external advisers on directors duties and responsibilities, including in relation to FCA regulated businesses: individual meetings with the Chairman, Executive Directors, senior management and the Company Secretary: individual meetings with our corporate brokers and other key advisers: business-related presentations from senior management: and strategy packs from the strategy sessions held in 2016 which will help him gain an understanding of the Groups strategy, its management team and its services.
42 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Board evaluation process Director evaluation I appraise each of the Directors individually in the form of interviews, taking account of feedback received as part of the Board evaluation process.
I can confirm that each Director continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and Year 1 Year 2 devotes sufficient time to the role.
My evaluation was undertaken External Internal by the Senior Independent Director, taking into account the views evaluation review of the other Directors.
Biographies of the Board are set out on pages 38 and 39 which includes my significant commitments.
The Board is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with my ability to carry out my duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
Year 3 Committee evaluation Internal As in 2015, we conducted formal evaluations of each of the review Committees.
This involved completion of questionnaires by members of each Committee, senior management who interact with each Committee, and, where relevant, professional advisers to each Committee, followed by discussion at a Committee meeting.
Following the external evaluation conducted in 2014 by SCT Summaries of these evaluations can be found in the relevant Consultants Ltd, we undertook an internal evaluation in 2015 Committee report.
followed by another internal evaluation in 2016.
This involved the completion of questionnaires by individual Directors and interviews Accountability by me and the Senior Independent Director respectively with the Financial and business reporting results being analysed and presented for discussion at a Board meeting.
The Board then agreed the key actions.
The Board also The Boards aim is to present an Annual Report to shareholders, reviewed its progress against actions identified in the external which, taken as a whole, is a fair, balanced and understandable 2015 Board evaluation: assessment of the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Board has ensured that processes are in 2015 evaluation actions update place to achieve this and more information on the processes can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 46 to 51.
A The following actions were identified following the evaluation statement of Directors responsibilities and the auditors conducted in 2015: responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report are set out on Talent strategy we have continued to focus both in Nomination pages 77 and 81 respectively.
The Directors opinion that the Committee meetings and Board meetings on developing an Companys business is a going concern is set out on page 26. effective talent strategy for managing the pipeline of top talent to run the business.
Risk management and internal control Strategy we have received regular updates on the competitive environment, considered provider needs and reviewed new The Board has overall responsibility for setting the risk appetite of opportunities for growth.
the Group, maintaining the Groups risk management and internal Customers we have continued to focus on how we can help to control system and reviewing the systems effectiveness.
We have meet customer needs.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Principal Risks faced by the Group which has been in place for the 2016 evaluation actions year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee assist us in The Directors many positive responses indicated their widely held discharging these duties.
view that ongoing improvements have been made since the evaluation in 2015.
In particular, members considered there was We regularly review and update our internal control and risk open and transparent debate with constructive challenge and management processes.
In particular, in 2016, we oversaw the active engagement from all members of the Board.
The Board implementation of an upgraded quality assurance and testing receives comprehensive reports to enable it to monitor process for new technology releases and enhanced incident performance, consider risks and controls, and take key decisions.
A summary of actions we have taken in Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2017 are a 2016 is set out in the Risk Committee Report on pages 54 to 56. continuing focus on: Talent strategy - ensuring there is an effective talent strategy for Risk management managing the pipeline of top talent to run the business: Diversity - ensuring there is an effective diversity strategy for A description of the process for managing risk together with a managing the pipeline of diverse talent to run the business and description of the Principal Risks and strategies to mitigate those reflect our customers: and risks, is provided on pages 27 to 31.
Organisational culture ensuring there is an effective strategy to enhance organisational culture and engagement of employees.
In 2017 we will undertake an external evalution of the Board and its Committees.
SCT Consultants have been appointed to undertake the 2017 evaluation.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control Risk review and assessment The main features of the Groups risk management and internal The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify and controls in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of accounts are: the risk of failing to achieve the Groups objectives.
They are not a comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting process, designed to eliminate such risk, but the Group seeks to understand requiring Board approval, through which risks are identified and its Principal Risks and manage them within our risk appetite.
appraised: a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly enhanced, The Groups risk register is a key element in our risk management within which actual and forecast results are compared with framework and is used in the assessment and reporting of risks approved budgets and the previous years figures on a monthly being managed by the Group.
Senior management continue to work basis and reviewed by the Board: alongside the Risk and Compliance function to ensure the risk Group policies relating to the maintenance of accounting records, register incorporates any new risks and movements in risks.
The risk transaction reporting and key financial control procedures: register is managed by the Risk and Compliance function and is an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level reviewed on a regular basis by the Risk Committee.
of approval for all capital expenditure and other capitalised costs: monthly finance team meetings which include reviews of internal Each risk is owned by a member of executive management who is financial reporting issues and financial control monitoring: and responsible for the ongoing assessment of risk and the delivery of ongoing training and development of financial reporting employees.
Robust risk and control assessments are carried out at least quarterly across all areas of the business, in order to Other controls in place to manage our business in accordance with understand the strength and performance of the controls in place, and our Risk Appetite Framework include: potential gaps and weaknesses.
Internal Audit and Risk and Compliance an annual two-day strategy meeting to discuss and approve the monitoring findings are also taken into account when assessing risks.
Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them: The Risk and Compliance function provides challenge to executives a schedule of matters reserved for approval by the Board to ensure in their assessment and management of risks with particular focus it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, on the actions being taken to reduce risk.
The senior management organisational, compliance and capital investment issues: team meets on a monthly basis to ensure risk management is an organisational governance structure with clearly defined lines of integrated within strategic and business planning processes.
responsibility and delegation of authority: Reporting to the Risk Committee enables the Directors to have clear formal risk and control policies and supporting procedures visibility of the most relevant risks: identify areas of concern and or manuals: priority: have access to detailed information to enable root cause regular reviews of the Principal Risks facing the Group to ensure analysis and underlying trends: and identify, escalate, and potentially they are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed: mitigate the impact of new risks in a timely manner.
Twice a year the a process for regular assessment of key controls across the Group: Board reviews the Groups Principal Risks and the Group Risk a Risk and Compliance function responsible for overseeing the Appetite Framework and Statement.
implementation of the Risk Appetite Framework: an Internal Audit function providing assurance over key risks, During the year there were two incidents which impacted processes and controls: and customers.
These incidents arose from data transfer errors a whistleblowing hotline which employees can use to report any following scheduled technology releases.
In response to these instances of suspected wrongdoing.
incidents, the Board prioritised minimising customer detriment and is overseeing the programme to further reduce these risks, Our internal control effectiveness is assessed through the including an upgraded testing programme.
performance of regular checks, which in 2016 included the following areas: Process for review of effectiveness reviewing and testing the Groups financial reporting processes: The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness completion of the Groups internal audit plan: of the risk management and internal control systems.
The steps it performing compliance monitoring activities including financial takes in relation to the review are set out on pages 28 and 29.
The promotion reviews and call listening: Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board on assessment of the identification and management of risks effectiveness which the Board considers, together with reports from connected to the Groups capital investment programme: the Risk Committee, in forming its own view on the effectiveness of assessment of the Groups processes for identifying and mitigating the risk management and internal control systems.
potential conflicts of interest: assessment of the identification and management of technology During 2016, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risks across the Group, including data security and change risk management and internal control systems.
We confirm that the management: and processes outlined above and on pages 27 to 29 and 50 have been monitoring the completion of the Groups mandatory Customer in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of First, data protection and Code of Conduct training for new starters this Annual Report and that these processes accord with the UK and refresher training for all employees.
Corporate Governance Code and the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting September 2014 version.
We also confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Principal Risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and these, together with how they are managed or mitigated, are set out on pages 30 to 31.
44 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Shareholder engagement Compliance statement This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Audit Major shareholders Committee Report on pages 46 to 51, the Nomination Committee The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major Report on pages 52 to 53, the Risk Committee Report on pages 54 to institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Senior 56 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 73 executives, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial provides a description of how the main principles of the 2014 edition Officer regularly meet with analysts and institutional shareholders of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied to keep them informed of significant developments and to develop by the Company during 2016.
The Code is published by the Financial an understanding of their views which are discussed with the Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
In addition, all Directors receive formal reports and briefings The Directors consider that during the financial year ended 31 during the year about the Companys investor relations December 2016 and to the date of this Report, the Company programme and receive detailed feedback obtained by the complied with the Code except as follows: Companys brokers after meetings, direct contact and other means, through which they are able to develop an understanding of the E. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by the views of major shareholders.
External analysts reports on the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following their Group are also circulated to Directors.
dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director believes he is aware of the views of major Andrew Fisher, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee shareholders.
Unless requested by major shareholders, the Senior chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend meetings with significant matters relating to executive remuneration and has held them but is available for shareholders as required.
one-to-one meetings with key shareholders during the year in relation to the proposed new Remuneration Policy.
Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders covering the full-year and half-year results and the Company seeks to maintain a dialogue with various bodies which monitor the Companys governance policies and procedures.
The Company Secretary generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
Communications with shareholders The results and results presentations, together with all information reported to the market via the regulatory information service, press releases and other shareholder information, are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at http: corporate.
com to be viewed and accessed by all shareholders.
During the year I have kept major institutional shareholders updated on the progress of recruitment of the new Chief Executive Officer.
Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns for which contact through the normal channels of me, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees will be available to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may also contact me, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more appropriate, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to raise any issue with one or all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue to be voted upon at Annual General Meetings.
The result of the vote on each resolution is published on the Groups website after the Annual General Meeting and will be announced via the regulatory information service.
At the 2016 AGM, shareholders representing 79.09% of the Companys issued share capital returned their proxy votes.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45
