80 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Composition of the Boards Compliance statement Joint chairmen 2 Mondis dual listed company structure has therefore provided the assurance Executive directors 3 requires us to comply with the principles on sustainability issues in the Integrated contained in the South African King III report and financial statements 2016.
Non-executive directors 5 Code of Corporate Governance Principles A more detailed analysis of Mondis available at www.
co. za and compliance with King III is available the September 2014 edition of the UK on the Mondi Group website at Corporate Governance Code issued by www.
the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
It is the view of the The Boards note that the King IV Boards that, except as referred to below, Report on Corporate Governance for Mondi has complied throughout the year South Africa 2016 was published on Diversity of the Boards with all the provisions of these codes.
The King IV Code % replaces King III and disclosure of the Female 30% The Boards determined that the DLC application of the new code provisions is Male 70% sustainable development committee effective for financial years starting on or provided the appropriate oversight for the after 1 April 2017.
We are in the process of sustainability reporting in the Integrated undertaking a review of the new principles report and financial statements 2016 and recommended practices.
rather than the DLC audit committee, as recommended under King III.
Due to Also, in April 2016, a revised UK the nature of Mondis business the DLC Corporate Governance Code was sustainable development committee published, applying to accounting regularly reviews all key sustainability periods beginning on or after 17 June issues for the Group, meeting six times 2016.
The new and revised provisions, a year and reporting directly to the that related to the responsibilities of the Boards.
Therefore, it is considered to audit committee, were reviewed, our be better placed to review the integrity procedures updated and are reported on of the sustainability reporting.
The DLC later in this governance report ahead of sustainable development committee the required implementation.
Composition of the Boards The size and composition of the Boards and its committees are kept under The directors holding office during the review by the nominations committee.
year ended 31 December 2016 are listed Recent changes to the Boards have added opposite, together with their attendance additional knowledge and expertise in at board meetings.
As at 31 December consumer-oriented businesses, supporting 2016 there were nine directors: the joint development of our more consumer chairmen, four non-executive directors, exposed packaging businesses and each considered by the Boards to be in innovation and sales and marketing.
independent, and three executive directors.
We are of the view that collectively there On 1 January 2017 Tanya Fratto was is an appropriate balance of capabilities, appointed to the Boards as an independent business experience, independence and non-executive director see page 76 for diversity on the Boards to meet the Groups details of resultant changes.
The directors have experience gained from a range of international organisations.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 78 and 79.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 81 Nationalities represented Non-executive director tenure on the Boards 03 years 2 South African 3 36 years 1 British 3 Austrian 1 69 years 1 9 years 1 French 1 New Zealander 1 American 1 Mondi Limited Mondi plc board one board one DLC board 1 Directors meeting meeting six meetings Fred Phaswana 1 1 6 David Williams 1 1 6 Stephen Harris 1 1 6 David Hathorn 1 1 6 Andrew King 1 1 6 John Nicholas 1 1 6 Peter Oswald 1 1 6 Anne Quinn 1 1 6 Dominique Reiniche 1 1 6 1 Tanya Fratto was appointed on 1 January 2017 and therefore did not attend any meetings during 2016 Professional advice D&O insurance A policy is in place pursuant to which Throughout the year to 31 December each director may obtain independent 2016, in line with market practice, Mondi professional advice at Mondis expense maintained directors and officers in the furtherance of their duties as a liability insurance.
director of either Mondi Limited or Mondi Procedure for conflicts of interest plc.
No requests were received during the year.
Company law, the memorandum of incorporation of Mondi Limited and In addition, each of the committees the articles of association of Mondi plc are empowered, through their terms allow directors to manage potential of reference, to seek independent conflicts.
A formal procedure is in place professional advice at Mondis expense in for the reporting and review of any the furtherance of their duties.
potential conflicts of interest involving the Boards with support from the company secretaries, with authorisations reviewed on an annual basis.
82 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Board structure Mondi Limited Mondi plc African operations Non-African operations Board of directors Board of directors DLC Registered in South Africa Registered in the UK Board Primary listing on the JSE Premium listing on the LSE Secondary listing on the JSE Single unified economic enterprise Mondi comprises Mondi Limited, registered Responding appropriately to the changing and listed in South Africa, and Mondi plc, environment in which the Group operates is registered and listed in the UK.
Each entity vital for the long-term success of Mondi.
has its own board of directors comprising The Boards meet six times a year as a the same individuals.
This enables the DLC board plus at least once each year as effective management of the DLC structure separate legal entity boards.
Each board as a single unified economic enterprise programme is held over two days enabling with due consideration being given to the the directors to spend more time together interests of the ordinary shareholders of and form a greater understanding of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
each others characters which in turn aids Leadership of the Boards comes from the discussion and challenge in the board room joint chairmen.
Having joint chairmen brings and creates a positive dynamic.
to the Boards a diversity of knowledge and Fred Phaswana chairs those meetings held experience and shared values.
They have in South Africa and David Williams those agreed a rolling agenda to ensure that all held in Europe.
Together they oversee the key matters reserved for the consideration distribution of appropriate, accurate and of the Boards are covered in the annual well-presented materials, with meeting cycle of meetings.
Agendas for each packs being circulated electronically a week meeting are agreed with the chairmen to before each meeting.
They also ensure ensure that, in addition to regular items, there is sufficient debate and consultation consideration is being given to matters with management and advisers as well as that may impact the Groups operations between the directors themselves during from the wider economic or business meetings in order that effective decisions environment.
Examples of additional are reached.
As appropriate, other agenda items during 2016 were the views senior executives below board level and of an economist on the macroeconomic advisers are invited to attend and present environment in Europe, considering the at meetings, providing the non-executive feedback from the employee survey, directors with a broader perspective on a presentation on managing technical matters under consideration.
integrity and reviewing the implementation of the new EU Market Abuse Regulation.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 83 Mondi Mondi Limited plc The Boards DLC DLC DLC DLC nominations audit remuneration sustainable committee committee committee development Oversees the Oversees the Responsibility for committee composition of Groups corporate recommending Oversees the Groups the Boards and financial reporting, overall remuneration strategy, commitments, committees and the internal control policy and the setting Mondi Limited targets and considers succession system, risk of executive and performance relating social planning, making management and senior management to safety, and ethics recommendations the relationship remuneration the environment to the Boards with the external committee and other sustainable auditor Oversees South development matters African social and ethical issues 90 93 109 102 104 DLC executive committee Day-to-day management of the Group 105 The Boards are supported by the The committees meet prior to meetings of committees that have been established the Boards to enable the committee chairs in line with governance practice and to to report to the Boards.
This facilitates the which the Boards have delegated specific communication between directors and areas of responsibility.
The role of each ensures that all aspects of the Boards committee is described in more detail later mandate have been addressed and in this report.
Each committee has the enables any necessary recommendations authority to make decisions according to or advice relevant for deliberations to its terms of reference.
are agreed by each committee that are Only committee members are entitled to designed around the annual business attend committee meetings, although the calendar and their respective terms of chairmen of each committee can invite, as reference.
The matters reserved for the they consider appropriate, management Boards together with the terms of reference and advisers to meetings to provide of each of the committees are reviewed information and insights, answer questions on an annual basis and also when there and generally to assist the committees in have been changes in circumstances, carrying out their duties.
These are available on the Mondi Group website.
During 2016 certain of the committee terms of reference were updated, in particular those of the audit committee in response tochanges in regulation.
84 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report How the Boards spent their time The chairmen agree an annual work programme for the Boards that ensures all matters reserved for review by the Boards are covered.
Additional matters are added to each meeting agenda as the need arises throughout the year, usually in connection with strategic opportunities that have presented themselves or where operational performance discussions trigger a request for a more in-depth review, for example the review of managing technical integrity.
Each meeting includes a report from the Chief executive officer providing an operational update: a report from the Chief financial officer on the Groups financial performance: an update on safety performance and any serious incidents and close calls: country assessments for key geographic locations where the Group operates: and a report from the company secretaries on recent governance and regulatory matters.
Other matters addressed by the Boards included: Financial performance e Reviewed and approved the full and half-yearly e Dividend recommendations and declarations e Reviewed and approved material corporate results and associated announcements and the were considered in light of the Groups stated transactions and commitments, including the trading updates and considered the feedback dividend policy, financial performance and strong launch of a new 500 million eight-year Eurobond from investors and analysts following the cash generation.
and the renewal of the EMTN programme.
e Reviewed and approved the Group business e Annual reviews of the Group treasury position and e Reviewed and approved the Mondi Group plan for 2017 to 2019 and the budget for Group tax strategy.
Integrated report and financial statements, 2017, considering assumptions made and the ensuring they are fair, balanced and reasonableness of the plan and focusing on the understandable see page 98 for more information.
operational overviews, cash flow management and capital allocation.
Strategy formulation and monitoring e Held a strategy review session and considered e Considered a number of large capital projects, e Received a presentation from an external party on where Mondi is today, its strategic focus, options particularly in Ruomberok, tt and Syktyvkar.
for future growth and detailed business by e Considered a number of investment and e Regularly reviewed potential growth opportunities business strategic initiatives, resulting in continued acquisition proposals, including SIMET, Uralplastic, identified by management.
support for Mondis strategic direction see page Kalenobel and Lebedyan.
e Regularly reviewed shareholder analysis reports.
Operational performance e Received regular reports on trends in the Europe e Considered the potential implications of the e Received presentations on quality systems and & International Division and South Africa Division, drought situation in South Africa on our operations innovation and the new management structure providing more detailed insights into each in Richards Bay.
business unit, in particular the markets, pricing e Received a presentation on how technical integrity e Reviewed the sustainability framework in the and performance.
context of the Groups Growing Responsibly model e Received regular reports on each material capital and 2020 commitments.
investment project, enabling oversight of the robustness of the project planning and budgeting.
Governance and risk management e Received regular reports from the chairmen of e Undertook a review of the Groups risk e Considered governance and regulatory each committee.
management processes, plan and risk tolerance developments, in particular the implementation of levels and internal controls, with consideration of the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
e Reviewed the Groups corporate risk monitoring and mitigation activities.
e Reviewed principal Group policies and, in e Received bi-annual presentations on IT risks and particular, agreed changes to the share dealing e Reviewed and approved the renewal of cyber security see page 95 for more information.
code and also the non-audit services policy.
Anne Quinns term of office see page 86 for more information.
e Reviewed the Group insurances, ensuring an e Reviewed arrangements for the Annual General appropriate balance of risk between the Group and Meetings, in particular feedback received from e Considered and approved the appointment of our insurers.
Tanya Fratto see page 91 for more information.
e Reviewed and approved directors declarations e Reviewed the output from the external board related to potential conflicts of interest.
evaluation process and agreed an action plan see page 89 for more information.
Other e Discussed the feedback from the employee survey e Considered succession and talent e Considered a number of regular matters that are and managements response.
reserved for the Boards see schedule on the Mondi Group website.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 85 Board responsibilities Role Principal responsibilities Mondi has joint chairmen, Fred Phaswana Joint chairmen e lead and manage the Boards, setting the agenda, providing and David Williams, with the chief executive direction and focus, ensuring effectiveness and open and officer role held separately by David Fred Phaswana transparent debate Hathorn.
The division of responsibilities David Williams e ensure there is a constructive relationship between the between the joint chairmen and the Chief executive directors and non-executive directors See executive officer has been clearly defined 78 biographies and approved by the Boards.
They do e ensure high standards of corporate governance and ethical however work closely on matters such as behaviour and oversee the culture of the Group the relationships with major shareholders e oversee the induction, training and development of directors and other external parties.
The joint and the consideration of succession chairmen provide support and advice while e ensure effective communication with shareholders and respecting the executive responsibility of other stakeholders the Chief executive officer.
They maintain e ensure the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information an effective relationship and have regular to support discussion and decision making interaction through meetings and telephone calls outside the formal board meeting Chief executive e leads and manages the business with day-to-day responsibility officer cycle.
This provides opportunities for for running the operations and, in particular, the execution of regular updates on business objectives strategy within the delegated authority from the Boards and David Hathorn and priorities.
communicating Mondis common values and goals throughout the organisation See Having joint chairmen ensures the Group 78 biographies e chairs the DLC executive committee and leads and motivates and its stakeholders benefit from an the management team extensive knowledge and experience of the jurisdictions relating specifically to its e ensures the Group has effective processes, controls and risk dual listed company structure.
The joint management systems chairmen maintain a regular dialogue e develops and implements Group policies, including with regard with each other and manage the Boards to safety and sustainability through mutual agreement.
e together with the Chief financial officer, leads the relationship The main positions held by each of the with institutional shareholders joint chairmen outside the Mondi Group Executive e manage the operations of the Group within their respective are detailed in their biographies set out on directors areas of management responsibility in accordance with the page 78.
There have been no changes to authority delegated by the Boards Andrew King the commitments of either chairman during the year.
Both chairmen were independent Peter Oswald upon appointment.
See 78 biographies With the joint chairmen having minimal commitments external to Mondi, the Boards continue to consider that they each devote sufficient time to their duties to Mondi, with both having attended all meetings and made themselves available to management and other directors when required.
86 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Non-executive directors Company secretaries The Boards concluded that the company secretaries have each complied with The non-executive directors provide a The company secretary of Mondi Limited all the requirements of the Companies valuable level of independent oversight and of Mondi plc work together on the Acts, governance codes and continuing of the Groups activities and constructive co-ordination of Mondis DLC structure.
obligations of the relevant stock exchanges.
Their varied They are appointed and removed by the business backgrounds enable them to apply Boards and are accountable to the Boards While all directors have access to the advice diverse knowledge and experience to issues as a whole.
and services of the company secretaries, raised with the Boards, particularly when the company secretaries maintain an Pursuant to the Listings Requirements of considering strategic growth opportunities.
arms length relationship with the Boards.
the JSE, the Boards confirm that they have They each actively participate in the decision They do not take part in board deliberations reviewed and are satisfied that each of the making, discussing and tackling issues and only advise on matters of governance, company secretaries is competent and has with a frankness and openness of mind, form or procedure.
Throughout the year the relevant qualifications and experience.
and dedicate sufficient time to effectively they have not only ensured compliance Their biographies are on page 105. discharge their duties to Mondi.
with board procedures, but have provided In assessing their competence the Boards independent advice to the Boards, in Non-executive director meetings have considered the expected role and particular the chairmen and non-executive duties pursuant to the requirements of both Non-executive director meetings are held directors, on a range of governance and the South African and UK Companies twice a year.
These meetings focus particularly compliance matters and best practice.
Acts, governance codes and continuing on the performance of the executives although obligations of the stock exchanges on the agendas are driven by the non-executive which Mondi is listed, and considered directors themselves and cover a variety of their respective compliance with each of topics.
One of these meetings is attended these.
The Boards have reviewed their by the Chief executive officer in order to performance not only during the last year provide input to the discussions on executive but since joining Mondi.
Role Principal responsibilities Senior e provides support to, and acts as a sounding board for, the joint Anne Quinn independent chairmen and other non-executive directors review of term of office director SID e available as a point of contact for shareholders During 2016 Anne Quinn completed her nine-year Anne Quinn term in office.
Since her appointment to the Boards e available as a trusted intermediary for the other directors, in 2007 Anne has chaired the remuneration as necessary See committee and been a member of both the audit 79 biographies e chairs a meeting of the non-executive directors at which the and nominations committees.
Since August 2009 Anne has been the senior independent director.
performance of the joint chairmen is considered A more detailed review of her performance, Independent e provide independent oversight of the Groups activities including consideration of the governance codes requirements, evaluation feedback and shareholder non-executive e offer an external perspective to, and constructively challenge, opinion, was considered against the time she directors management devotes to her duties at Mondi and her other business commitments.
Tanya Fratto e monitor management performance and the development of the Feedback from her fellow directors and her organisational culture Stephen Harris contribution to the board debate was also taken into e review and agree strategic priorities and monitor the delivery of account.
Since her appointment Anne has attended John Nicholas all meetings.
Positive feedback has been received the Groups strategy Dominique on her performance both as a director and as chair e ensure the integrity of financial reporting and the effectiveness of of the remuneration committee.
She continues to Reiniche take an active interest in Mondi and demonstrate a internal controls and risk management willingness to challenge management when required.
See 79 e determine executive director remuneration Following this review the nominations committee biographies concluded that Anne remained independent and able to contribute effectively to Mondi in the best Company e support the joint chairmen in the delivery of accurate and timely interests of shareholders.
The committee made a secretaries information ahead of each meeting recommendation to the Boards that Anne remain in office for a further period.
The Boards, being satisfied e ensure compliance with board and committee procedures Philip Laubscher that Anne remained independent, accepted the e key point of contact for joint chairmen and non-executive directors recommendation to extend her appointment for a Jenny Hampshire further year.
In January 2017 it was announced that e provide support to the Boards and committees, and advise on she will step down from the Boards at the conclusion See governance, statutory and regulatory requirements, including 105 of the Annual General Meetings in May 2017. biographies presenting a report at each board meeting highlighting any Having concluded our search for a new nonareas of development or change executive director, Tanya Fratto was appointed on 1 January 2017.
She will replace Anne as chair of e provide advice on legal, governance and listing requirements in the remuneration committee after the conclusion both South Africa and the UK, in particular relating to continuing of the Annual General Meetings.
John Nicholas will obligations and directors duties take over as senior independent director.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 87 Training and development Company secretaries When new directors join the Boards they Her induction started with a briefing from one of the company secretaries to explain the DLC structure undertake an induction.
While there is an and its implications for the operation of the Boards.
outline induction programme in place, The governance framework within which we operate this is discussed with each new director was discussed and access provided to an online director handbook, containing all key documents and is tailored to meet any specific of reference for directors including guidance on the requirements, in particular any committee duties and obligations for listed company directors.
The programme generally Joint chairmen and non-executive directors includes meetings with each member of the Meetings with her board colleagues were arranged.
executive committee and key advisers in As far as was possible these meetings were held Tanya Fratto addition to site visits.
The aim is to provide around the time of her first board programme but will Induction programme continue over the coming weeks.
a new director with sufficient background and information about the Group and its Executive committee members and When new directors join the Boards they undertake senior management an induction that is managed over the first few performance and to highlight any specific months after appointment.
The primary purpose Meetings with each member of the executive areas of risk or concern.
The induction is to familiarise a new director with the nature of committee have been held in order to provide an programme for Tanya Fratto is ongoing.
the Groups business and operations, highlighting understanding of the Groups business, markets, the key challenges and opportunities as well as operations and material projects as well as risk areas.
Each director can discuss any development the regulatory environment within which Mondi In addition, meetings with the Group heads of tax, needs with one of the joint chairmen at any must operate.
treasury, health and safety and sustainability are being arranged, providing the opportunity to engage time but more formally during the annual While there is an outline induction programme in with senior management on a one-on-one basis.
review process when discussions regarding place, this is discussed with each new director and is tailored to meet any specific requirements they may Advisers individual performance are held.
In particular, the programme will take account A meeting has been held with the UK audit all directors are encouraged to strengthen of any committee responsibilities that they will be engagement partner and other sessions, particularly and refresh their knowledge by attending taking on.
With the appointment of Tanya Fratto with the remuneration committee consultants, are on 1 January 2017 we have initiated her induction being arranged in order to provide an independent workshops, seminars and courses relevant programme with particular focus on the remuneration view ofkey areas of focus for the Group.
to their respective roles, and details of the committee responsibilities as she will be taking over Site visits availability of these are provided regularly.
the chair of the committee from Anne Quinn after the Arrangements are being made for visits to key Annual General Meetings in May 2017.
During the year directors have attended operational sites, primarily our forestry operations in programmes providing updates on South Africa and our wiecie mill Poland following governance developments and the duties the major capital investment at this site.
Also, presentations and reports are provided regularly to the Boards that give information on the broader context of the Groups activities and position in the market.
Regular feedback is provided through the sharing of analyst and broker reports and briefings.
88 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Corporate governance report Part of the Boards annual rolling agenda is David Hathorn was appointed chairman of focused on updating skills and knowledge.
Kore Potash Limited formerly Elemental Periodically Mondis South African and UK Minerals Limited in December 2015, advisers facilitate sessions on the duties an advanced stage mineral exploration and responsibilities of directors and on and development company listed on the corporate governance developments.
Australian stock exchange with a primary Management also provide updates on asset in the Republic of Congo and with its issues affecting the packaging and paper head office in Johannesburg.
Examples during 2016 The Boards were mindful that David is were the provision of training on the EU chairman but were satisfied that the nature Market Abuse Regulation and presentations of the business, its location and the time on managing technical integrity and on the commitment expected, would not interfere impacts of the drought in areas of South with Davids role and commitments at Africa where Mondi operates.
The Boards keep this under To ensure the directors are aware of review but to date have concluded that wiecie Poland developing trends and future changes the commitment required at this stage in Although the whole board have not had the in governance and regulation and the the companys development would be no opportunity to undertake a site visit this year, likely impact on the Group, the company greater than that of a regular non-executive individual directors have made visits to some of our key assets and operations, providing them secretaries report to the Boards at each role.
During 2016 no fees were paid with the opportunity for more in-depth reviews and meeting.
They also brief the directors on to David.
discussions with local management and staff.
government and regulatory consultations After a year in office Peter Oswald resigned In particular, Dominique Reiniche, as part of her for information and to assist the directors induction programme, visited our mill in wiecie his chairmanship of the supervisory board with context for their decision-making Poland in April and was able to see first-hand the of OMV AG in May 2016.
The Boards 166 million capital investment project to install during board and committee deliberations.
of Mondi had given Peter permission a new recovery boiler and replace the coal-fired Other corporate function specialists, boilers with a biofuel boiler.
The final phase of the to take on the role on the basis that the for example from Group tax and Group project, to provide an additional 100,000 tonnes workload was reasonable and would not per annum of softwood pulp and 80,000 tonnes treasury, report to the Boards to enable compromise his responsibilities to Mondi.
per annum of lightweight kraftliner, remains the directors to gain a greater insight into on track to start up in early 2017.
In addition to The Boards kept the time commitment the way Mondi is managed and controlled.
reviewing the site operations Dominique received under review and, as the months went on, This provides opportunities to question presentations from the management teams of it became clear that the responsibilities at our local containerboard, industrial bags and processes, resources and key risks as OMV were more time consuming than had corrugated packaging businesses.
well as providing context on the wider been anticipated.
It was ultimately agreed economic environment.
that Peter would step down from OMV Although it is recognised that valuable in order to focus on his work at Mondi.
experience can be gained from executive During 2016 Peter received fees totalling directors accepting appointments as non- 50,269 representing fees owed from this executive directors on other boards, it is prior appointment.
important to ensure the appropriateness and number of such commitments.
There is a policy in place setting out the parameters regarding such appointments.
A director will retain any fee paid to them in respect of directorships external to Mondi.
One executive director holds a directorship external to Mondi, something the Boards consider provides broader business experience and skills that benefits them asindividuals and also the Group.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 89 Performance evaluation Below are the key actions reported last year and details of the progress we have made against those actions: Action agreed from 2015 evaluation Progress achieved To continue to focus on succession planning, The nominations committee has had this on its agenda throughout the year, regularly in particular to consider the need for directors reviewing the composition of the Boards and the availability of additional skills and with relevant skills and experience to provide experience that would complement the current composition.
This culminated in the support for the Groups future strategic appointment of Tanya Fratto as an independent non-executive director see page 91 growth.
To oversee, through the audit committee, the The audit committee have, throughout the year, monitored the transition plans and transition to the Groups new external auditor.
progress against the plan see page 99 for more information.
To continue to evaluate growth opportunities The Boards have reviewed and considered a number of acquisition proposals in line with the agreed strategy.
presented by management resulting in several growth opportunities being agreed including the acquisitions of SIMET S. A. Uralplastic, Kalenobel and Lebedyan.
To receive a bi-annual presentation on the Bi-annual cyber security presentations were made to the Boards see page 95 Groups cyber security measures.
To monitor changes in governance and Several material pieces of new regulation and governance changes became effective regulation anticipated to be effective in 2016 during the year.
As appropriate, either the Boards or a committee reviewed the new e. g. the EU Market Abuse Regulation and requirements and agreed implementation throughout the Group through changes ensure appropriate implementation and to policies and procedures.
Where changes have been required the Boards have changes to procedures and policies.
ensured that appropriate training has been provided.
2016 external board evaluation process In line with best practice, we have conducted external evaluations at least once every three years.
With the last external review having been in 2013, in 2016 the Boards again conducted an external review.
The review was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited, which has no other connection with Mondi.
The process followed is illustrated below: Decision to engage One-on-one interviews Detailed report issued and Action plan agreed by Independent Audit Limited conducted with each director, reviewed with the chairmen the Boards to conduct the evaluation executive committee member and both company secretaries Review of programmes, agendas and Observation of board and Report considered by the nominations papers for each board and committee committee meetings in progress committee and recommendations for meeting over a 12-month period an action plan made to the Boards The 2016 evaluation report confirmed that Consideration was given to the effective e To review and refine the format of the the Boards continue to operate well and to leadership of the Boards, how they safety reports presented to the Boards a high standard, demonstrating a culture of worked together, their time commitment e To continue to focus on innovation and transparency and accountability.
The report and the management of the meetings.
quality, ensuring that the Boards receive highlighted in particular the level of support The positive working relationship between relevant updates and presentations in and trust between the non-executive and the joint chairmen and the way in which this regard executive directors and the time given they effectively manage their joint role during and alongside formal meetings to full was noted.
e To include in acquisition proposals and open discussion.
The strong strategic presented to the Boards sufficient insight The key actions agreed by the Boards focus of the Boards and openness to into the due diligence undertaken in following the 2016 evaluation are: change was of particular note.
relation to the management and culture e To consider the need for further site of the business to be acquired The review of the performance of the visits by the Boards in light of recent joint chairmen, led by Anne Quinn as the The Boards consider that they continue developments in the business and its senior independent director, incorporated to benefit from the annual review process, strategic direction and changes to the feedback from the external evaluation, the the results from which help guide the future composition of the Boards non-executive and executive directors.
focus of meeting agendas and behaviours.
