Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of all the Directors except Mr DCP Internal Audit McDougall.
Mr JJ Tigue is Chariman of the Committee.
The The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and members of the Committee consider that they have the requisite internal control systems and the internal audit function in place financial skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders to be a member of the Committee as he is considered to be investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
The audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered Committees authority and duties are clearly defined within its unnecessary.
written terms of reference which are available on request from the Financial Reporting Company Secretary and at www.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The Committee considers that the most significant issues likely to impact the Financial Statements are: the existence and valuation The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as of investments, as they represent 98.4% of total assets: the part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
accuracy and completeness of income from investments: and the At least once a year the Committee meets with the external accuracy and completeness of the presentation of and the Auditors without any representative of the Managers being disclosures in the Financial Statement following the present.
implementation this year of new accounting standards and corporate governance regulations.
Main Activities of the Committee The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and The Committee met twice during the year and market prices are readily available from independent external  LLP, the external Auditors, attended pricing sources.
The Committee reviewed the Managers Report one of these meetings.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk function recording and pricing of investments and accurate recording of provided reports on their monitoring programmes for these investment income.
The value of all the listed investments as at 30 April 2016 were The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the agreed to external price sources.
The Committee considered the Committee during the course of the year included the following: value of all unquoted investments at 30 April 2016, which are the preliminary results announcement and the Annual and determined using valuation techniques based upon latest dealing Interim Reports: prices, stockbroker valuation, net assets values and other the Companys accounting policies and practices: information as appropriate, and assessed the appropriateness of the judgements and assumptions used in valuing such the regulatory changes impacting the Company: investments.
The portfolio holdings were agreed to confirmations the fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual from the Companys custodian.
Report and Financial Statements and whether it provided the The Managers confirmed to the Committee that they were not information necessary for shareholders to assess the aware of any material misstatements in the context of the Financial Companys performance, business model and strategy: Statements as a whole and that the Financial Statements are in the effectiveness of the Companys internal control accordance with applicable law and accounting standards.
environment: Internal Controls and Risk Management reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk external Auditors: management and internal controls systems as described on whether the audit services contract should be put out to pages 22 and 23.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the tender: year under review.
the policy on the engagement of the external Auditors to External Auditors supply non-audit services: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external external Auditors, the Committee reviewed the Auditors audit Auditors: plan, which includes a description of their arrangements to the need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: manage independence, a letter from the Auditors on the conclusion of the audit setting out why they remain independent internal controls reports received from the Managers and and the extent of non-audit services provided by the Auditors.
custodians: and Non-audit fees for the year to 30 April 2016 were 1,100 and the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby related to the certification of financial information to the debenture their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible trustee.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
24 Annual Report 2016 Governance Report To assess the effectiveness of the Auditors, the Committee reviewed and considered the audit plan, a report from the Auditors on the conclusion of the audit, feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the audit team and the 2014 15 Audit Quality Inspection Report on  LLP issued in May 2015 by the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team AQRT.
In addition, as  LLPs audit of Monks 2015 Financial Statements was selected as part of the AQRTs routine sample of audits for its 2015 16 Audit Quality Inspection Report, the Committee also reviewed the AQRTs findings on last years audit and, following discussions with the Audit Committee Chairman, the Auditors response to those findings.
The Committee concluded that the AQRTs findings were not significant and that it was satisfied with the Auditors response to those findings and the resulting minor improvements to future audits of the Company proposed by them.
 LLP, or its predecessor firms, have been engaged as the Companys Auditors for over 28 years.
The audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at least every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
The current lead audit partner, Ms Catrin Thomas, has been in place for four years and will continue as partner until the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
 LLP have confirmed that they believe they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
Having carried out the review described above, the Committee is satisfied that the Auditors remain independent and effective and as such, has not considered it necessary to conduct a tender process for the appointment of its Auditors at this stage.
In accordance with FRC guidance, the Committee will conduct a tender process during the year to 30 April 2017 to coincide with the five year rotation cycle of the current partner, Ms Thomas.
The Committee is aware that EU regulations in relation to the statutory audits of EU listed companies will require the Company to change its audit firm by 2020.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 28 to 32.
By order of the Board JJ Tigue Chairman of the Audit Committee 15 June 2016 The Monks Investment Trust PLC 25
