Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Appointments to the Board Code which can be found at www.
uk, and the relevant Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code the benefits of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial new directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board investment companies and can be found at www.
therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
Compliance The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out The Company has complied throughout the year under review in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection with the relevant provisions of the Code and the on request.
recommendations of the AIC Code except as follows: A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek a Nomination Committee has not been established.
As the election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Board comprises only six non-executive Directors, all of whom In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves for are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee re-election annually.
The appointment of new directors is considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board conducts Independence of Directors an annual review of its composition having regard to the All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent present and future needs of the Company: of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent Mr JGD Ferguson, Chairman of the Board, is a member of the judgement.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be a member of the Audit Committee as he is The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of for company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed interest: and annually.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of the evaluation of the Board has not been externally facilitated.
directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and The Board is of the opinion that the use of external experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with consultants to assist with the evaluation is unlikely to bring the view expressed in the AIC Code that long serving directors any meaningful benefit to the process, though the option to should not be prevented from being considered independent.
do so is kept under review.
Mr McDougall is a director of Pacific Horizon Investment Trust The Board PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford.
Mr McDougall and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
Mr Ferguson are both directors of The Independent Investment It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including Trust PLC.
All the Directors apart from Mr Sternberg and Mr Tigue strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, have served for more than nine years.
Following a formal gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance performance evaluation the Board has concluded that, not policy.
A separate strategy session is held annually.
The Board withstanding the above, Mr McDougall, Mr Ferguson, Mr Harley also reviews the Financial Statements, investment transactions, and Ms Ferguson continue to demonstrate independence of revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is character and judgement.
Their skills and experience add provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to significantly to the strength of the Board.
allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Meetings The Board currently comprises six Directors all of whom are There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to non-executive.
address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board executive responsibility for investment management has been considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund effectively.
The table on page 22 shows the attendance record for Manager AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, and, in the context the Board and the Audit Committee meetings held during the year.
of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no The Annual General Meeting was attended by all the Directors.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 17.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 21 Governance Report The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Directors Attendance at Meetings identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Audit the Company in accordance with the guidance Guidance on Risk Board Committee Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Number of meetings 5 2 Reporting.
The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation JGD Ferguson 5 2 and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard CC Ferguson 5 2 the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, EM Harley 5 2 including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance DCP McDougall 5 controls have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
KS Sternberg 5 2 The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers JJ Tigue 5 2 and Secretaries and the controls managed by the AIFM in Mr DCP McDougall is not a member of the Audit Committee.
accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive as detailed below.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit Performance Evaluation and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance function provide the Audit Committee with regular reports on evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit their monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these Committee was carried out during the year.
After considering and departments are defined and formalised within a service level responding to an evaluation questionnaire each Director had an agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its interview with the Chairman.
The Chairmans appraisal was led by system of internal controls which is documented within an internal Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
The controls report which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of balance of skills of the Board, training and development Service Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos Auditors and a overall effectiveness of the Board and the Audit Committee.
copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and each Director, the Chairman, the Board and the Audit Committee the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by continues to be effective and that each Director and the Chairman the Audit Committee.
remain committed to the Company.
The Board is of the opinion that the use of external consultants to assist with the evaluation is These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly unlikely to bring any meaningful benefit to the process, though the to the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that option to do so is kept under review.
they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
of the Companys risk management and internal controls systems and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on Induction and Training a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the New Directors are provided with an induction programme which year under review and up to the date of this Report.
is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place Briefings were provided during the year on industry and regulatory throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in matters.
Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
place up to the date of approval of this Report.
Remuneration To comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a Directive, the Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered UK Limited as its Depositary and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, Remuneration Report on pages 26 and 27. safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying Audit Committee ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 24 and 25. leverage requirements.
The Depositary is liable for the loss of Internal Controls and Risk Management financial instruments held in custody.
The Depositary will ensure The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys that any delegate segregates the assets of the Company.
The risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing Depositary has delegated the custody function to The Bank of their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather New York Mellon SA NV London Branch the Custodian.
The than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Custodian prepares a report on its key controls and safeguards and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
against material misstatement or loss.
22 Annual Report 2016 Governance Report The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its Corporate Governance and Stewardship monitoring activities.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures and report their actions to the Board.
are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least when selecting and retaining investments and have asked the annually.
This review includes the risk management processes Managers to take these issues into account.
The Managers do and systems and limits for each risk area.
not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the approach whereby matters are discussed with management with Board, take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile the aim of improving the relevant policies and management of the portfolio.
These limits, including leverage see page 55, systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key risks is could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the impact of statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions from limits found on the Managers website at www.
The monitoring and stress testing undertaken by Baillie Giffords Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Business Risk Department are escalated to the AIFM and reported to the Board along with remedial measures being taken.
The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Going Concern Having assessed the principal risks and other matters set out in the Viability Statement on page 16, the Directors consider it By order of the Board appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in JGD Ferguson preparing these Financial Statements and confirm that they are Chairman not aware of any material uncertainties which may effect the 15 June 2016 Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these Financial Statements.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman has maintained open lines of communication with market participants and investors in the Company, separate of Manager involvement, in order to ascertain views on corporate matters.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the Secretaries address or through the Companys Broker, Canaccord Genuity Limited see contact details on the back cover.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the meeting and is published at www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company at www.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 23
