OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 67 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Chairmans introduction 2016 was once again an important year for the Committee with THE MAIN ROLE OF THE a number of changes to the Board.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE IS TO As a consequence of Kevin Dangerfields departure on 31 March 2016, LEAD THE PROCESS FOR BOARD the Committee oversaw the succession planning process for a new APPOINTMENTS AND TO MAKE Chief Financial Officer, concluding with the announcement on 30 March 2016 that Peter Turner would be joining the Company RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE as Chief Financial Officer on 11 April 2016.
BOARD ON THE APPOINTMENT The Committee evaluated the Boards succession needs, noting OF NEW DIRECTORS HAVING it wished to avoid undue disruption, and taking into account the CONSIDERED BOARD BALANCE outcomes of the strategic review and the challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The Committee worked closely with executive IN TERMS OF COMPOSITION, search agents to evaluate the skills and experience required to balance SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE TO the Board and to meet the needs of the Company.
Continuing the process of ongoing refreshment of the Board, the Committee led a process which culminated in the recruitment of two additional non-executive Directors.
Following the creation of candidate specifications, the Committee reviewed longand short-lists of candidates and conducted interviews.
As reported in the 2015 Annual Report, Helen Bunch joined as non-executive Director with effect from 24 February 2016 and the Company subsequently announced on 8 April 2016 that Laurence Mulliez would be joining the Board immediately following the conclusion of the 2016 AGM on 6 May 2016.
Looking ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to review skills requirements against long-term strategy, and is always mindful of proactive succession planning.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board which is described in more detail below.
Appointments ANDREW SHILSTON are made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN diversity, including gender.
ANDREW SHILSTON COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE MEMBERS Andrew Shilston Chairman 1 Helen Bunch Douglas Caster 2 Laurence Mulliez Pete Raby Rob Rowley 3 Victoire fide Margerie 4 Andrew Reynolds Smith 1.
Until resignation as a Director on 4 February 2016.
Until resignation as a Director on 6 May 2016.
A majority of members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 68 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE continued Meetings Appointments to the Board The Committee met formally twice during 2016.
In addition, a number One of the Companys strategic execution priorities is to increase of working groups of members of the Committee met between investment in people management and development.
The Board scheduled meetings to progress the recruitment of the Chief Financial discussed the Groups approach to talent management and succession Officer and the new non-executive Directors.
planning at senior levels in both May and June 2016 as part of its review of progress on the execution priorities.
The Board noted progress to date in increasing succession strength and in creating an enhanced Information and support performance culture, including the development of a new leadership The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other framework for rollout in 2017.
This is expected to ensure the right Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, talent and talent processes are in place to execute the strategy as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
successfully and to facilitate further the development of current and potential leaders.
Nomination Committee terms of reference The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year.
Succession planning for appointments to the Board, noting two The terms of reference are available to view on the Companys website.
non-executive Directors will reach the end of their first three-year term in May, and for senior management, will be a continued area of focus Main areas of work during 2016 for the Committee in 2017.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership Following the appointment of Pete Raby as Chief Executive Officer in needs of the Group.
The work of the Committee in discharging those 2015 and having considered other leading firms, Spencer Stuart was responsibilities in respect of 2016 included: retained for external searches both for executive and non-executive Reviewing the executive and non-executive leadership needs Directors.
Spencer Stuart has signed up to the voluntary code of of the Company.
conduct for executive search firms which includes provisions on Instigating and overseeing the selection process in relation to the diversity.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Company.
appointment of Peter Turner as Chief Financial Officer.
Leading the search for new non-executive Directors, resulting in The process to recruit Peter Turner, Chief Financial Officer, the selection and recommended appointment of Helen Bunch is described below: and Laurence Mulliez.
The skills and attributes required of an incoming Chief Financial Ensuring, by means of talent discussions at Board meetings, further Officer were discussed and a job specification was agreed.
development of management succession and development plans Following a selection exercise in which a number of external search for the Executive Committee and senior executives.
agents were considered and three firms were interviewed, Spencer Considering the Directors annual re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Stuart was appointed and briefed.
Spencer Stuart has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms which Reviewing, for recommendation to the Board, the Boards policy includes provisions on diversity.
Spencer Stuart was appointed on diversity.
and managed the search for Morgans CEO in 2015 and in 2013 conducted psychometric testing for senior executives but has no other connection with the Company.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 69 The Committee agreed that the Chairman of the Committee and Board Diversity Policy the Senior Independent Director should continue to progress the The Board firmly believes in the value of diversity of perspective, search between formal meetings of the Committee.
including background, nationality, experience and gender, at all levels of the Company as well as on the Board.
As is not unusual in engineering The search was conducted globally and a long-list of candidates was or manufacturing businesses, diversity in gender is the hardest considered, including external and internal, international and female to achieve.
The search agent travelled to meet candidates outside the UK.
At the graduate recruitment level, the Group is now having success Short-listed candidates were then interviewed by all members of in attracting good candidates of both genders and many nationalities.
Spencer Stuart then conducted an In 2016, 37% of the graduate intake 2015: 41% and 2014: 32% were independent assessment and references were taken up before the female.
At the senior level, 14% 2015: 13% and 2014: 5% of senior decision was made and announced on 30 March 2016 to appoint managers and two of the Board Directors are female.
Peter Turner as Chief Financial Officer, commencing his role on 11 April 2016.
New appointments to the Board are made on merit, with a focus on international and industrial experience, but diversity of perspective The process for appointing Helen Bunch and Laurence Mulliez and the mix of skills around the Board table are also taken into account as non-executive Directors is described below: when selecting potential candidates.
During the selection process for The Committee considered and formulated a candidate new non-executive Directors, the Committee has used and will specification for the roles in the light of its discussions on the balance continue to use, a search agent who has signed up to the voluntary of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board.
code of conduct which ensures that diversity is considered when The external search agent produced a long-list of candidates for developing a candidate pool.
The brief to the search agent is to put the roles.
forward a long-list of candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to Interviews were held with a short-list of candidates and members ensure that the best candidate is selected.
of the Nomination Committee participated in interviews with the preferred candidates.
When monitoring the development of leadership and considering the succession planning for executive management, the Board will take The Committee selected its preferred candidates based on objective into account the need for talented leaders with the skills needed to lead criteria and recommended their appointment to the Board.
The a global company with a presence in the key world economies and Board approved the appointments with Helen Bunch commencing manage the associated macro-economic challenges.
on 24 February 2016 and Laurence Mulliez on 6 May 2016.
The Board will continue to monitor whether it is taking diversity into The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors account when planning executive succession and appointing new are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the Board members, and the Board effectiveness evaluation process Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will allocate sufficient time addresses diversity.
to meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, The Board has discussed whether a quota for female Directors should with an indication of the time involved.
The Board is informed of be introduced by a certain date, but feels this is unrealistic given the any subsequent changes with additional commitments disclosed current gender composition of senior executives, the nature of the before they are accepted.
business and the competition for female non-executive Directors.
Two of the seven Board Directors are female.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
