54 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANDREW SHILSTON PETE RABY CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PETER TURNER DOUGLAS CASTER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR ANDREW SHILSTON PETE RABY DOUGLAS CASTER CBE NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AGED 61 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AGED 49 SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR AGED 63 Appointed: May 2012 Chairman Designate: Appointed: August 2015.
Career history: Pete joined Morgan Advanced Career history: Bringing to the Board broad Career history: Having joined Rolls-Royce Holdings Materials in August 2015 as Chief Executive Officer.
experience as an electronics systems engineer and plc in 2002, Andrew was Finance Director from Before joining Morgan Advanced Materials, Pete company director, Douglas started his career with 2003 until his retirement in 2011 and prior to this was President of the Communications and the Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving he was the Finance Director at Enterprise Oil plc.
Connectivity sector of Cobham plc.
Pete held to Schlumberger in 1986 and then to Dowty as Andrew was previously a non-executive Director a number of senior positions at Cobham over Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication of Cairn Energy plc, where he chaired the Audit a nine-year period.
Prior to Cobham, Pete was Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he became Managing Committee.
a partner at McKinsey & Company, specialising in Director of that business and, after participating the aerospace, defence and power and gas sectors.
in the management buy-out that formed Ultra Additional appointments: Senior Independent Pete has a PhD in satellite navigation and an M. Eng Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993.
Director of BP p. l. c. : non-executive Director and from the Department of Electronic and Electrical In April 2000, he became Managing Director Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee of Circle Engineering at the University of Leeds.
of Ultras Information & Power Systems division.
In April 2004 he was appointed Chief Operating Additional appointments: None.
Committees: Nomination Chair and Remuneration.
Officer and became Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman in April 2010 and became Chairman of Ultra in April 2011.
PETER TURNER Additional appointments: Chairman of Ultra CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AGED 46 Electronics Holdings plc and Chairman of Appointed: April 2016.
Career history: Peter joined Morgan Advanced Committees: Audit, Nomination and Materials in April 2016 as Chief Financial Officer.
joining Morgan Advanced Materials, Peter was Finance Director at Smiths Group plc from 2010 to 2015.
Prior to Smiths, Peter was Finance Director from 2007 to 2009 at Venture Production plc, before it was acquired by Centrica plc in 2009.
From 1995 to 2006, Peter held several positions at The BOC Group plc, including Finance Director of the Industrial & Special Products division.
Peter started his career as an auditor at Price Waterhouse.
He holds a degree in chemistry from Oxford University.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 55 HELEN BUNCH LAURENCE MULLIEZ ROB ROWLEY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HELEN BUNCH LAURENCE MULLIEZ ROB ROWLEY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 51 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 51 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 67 Appointed: February 2016.
Career history: At the start of her career, Helen Career history: Laurence started her career with Career history: Rob joined Reuters in 1978 where spent 17 years working in global businesses serving Banque Nationale fide Paris in 1988 before moving to he held various senior management positions, a wide variety of industries from automotive to M&M Mars Inc. in 1992 and then Amoco Chemical including Finance Director from 1990 to 2000. household products: 11 years with ICI and the Inc. in 1993, which was acquired by BP p. l. c. in 1998.
He retired as a director of Reuters Group plc remainder with a successor company, Lucite She spent a further 11 years at BP in a variety of roles in December 2001.
Rob was previously Deputy International Ltd.
In 2006, Helen joined Wates including Chief Executive of Castrol Industrial Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc, and a nonGroup, the privately-owned construction and Lubricants and Services.
Following BP, Laurence executive Director of Intu Properties plc, property services company, as Group Strategy became Chief Executive of independent power Prudential plc and Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
Director and became Managing Director of Wates producer Eoxis UK Limited from 2010 to 2013.
Additional appointments: Non-executive Director, Retail Limited in January 2011.
Since 2015, Helen Additional appointments: Chairman of Voltalia S. A.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior has been Managing Director of Wates Smartspace non-executive Director and Chair of Audit Committee Independent Director of Taylor Wimpey plc: Limited, the enlarged business following a merger of Aperam S. A. and non-executive Director of non-executive Director and Senior Independent with another Wates company and the acquisition SBM Offshore N. V. and UK Green Investment Director of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC: of a facilities management business.
non-executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Additional appointments: Managing Director Committee and Senior Independent Director of Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
of Wates Smartspace Limited, Governor of the Greene King plc: non-executive Director and Westminster Academy Westbourne Green.
Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Security Committee of Camelot UK Lotteries Limited.
Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
Committees: Audit Chair, Nomination and Remuneration.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 56 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Delegation of authority The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to Governance Code three principal committees, namely the Audit, Nomination and Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 the Company has Remuneration Committees.
The memberships, roles and activities been in compliance with the relevant provisions of the September 2014 of these Committees are described in separate reports: the Report version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 62 to 66: the Report applies to the 2016 financial year.
of the Nomination Committee is set out on pages 67 to 69: and the Remuneration Report is set out on pages 70 to 91.
The full As reported in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 62 to 66, terms of reference of the Board Committees are available on the the Group has not put the external audit contract out to tender during Companys website.
the last 10 years in accordance with provision C. 3.7 of the Code.
The external auditor was last appointed in 2001.
The Board decided to take The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group and advantage of the Financial Reporting Council FRC s guidance on operational matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial transitional arrangements which allowed the Group to defer a formal Officer.
The executive Directors together with the Group Human third-party tender process until at least the end of the external audit Resources Director, the Company Secretary & General Counsel, engagement partners tenure in 2018.
Further information on the timing the Director of Strategic Programmes, the Chief Technology Officer, of a competitive tender process is set out on page 66 of the Report of and the two Divisional Presidents, form the Executive Committee.
The Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, routine approvals to a General Purposes Committee, which meets as Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
This required and at which a non-executive Director must be present.
statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report Following the implementation of the EUs Market Abuse Regulation on pages 10 to 51 and the other sections of the Directors Report on MAR in the UK on 3 July 2016, the Board has reviewed the terms of pages 52 to 95. reference of the Disclosure Committee and that Committee has met several times in the year to discharge its duties as required by MAR, The Code, together with the April 2016 edition of the Code which the such as the consideration of whether the Company was in possession Company will report against from the 2017 Annual Report onwards, is of any inside information.
The membership of the Disclosure published by the FRC and is available on its website www.
Committee comprises all the Directors and the Company Secretary.
Leadership Board meetings The role of the Board In 2016, the Board met formally on eight occasions.
An indication The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders of the matters dealt with at these meetings is set out below.
for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
Following the During 2016, there have been several dedicated sessions on Group strategic review, the Company has set its strategic aims and execution strategy, firstly to determine the long-term strategy and agree execution priorities, and delivery against these has been reviewed by the Board priorities, and then to monitor progress on achieving these execution on several occasions during the year.
The Board has ensured that there priorities.
As part of this review, the Board considered the key drivers is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to of future organic growth, assessed the competitor and customer be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys values and landscape and held detailed reviews of the strategic plans of each standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics of the global business units.
Policy, both of which are referred to on pages 38 to 40 of the Corporate Responsibility section of this Report.
Matters reserved There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board, including: setting the Groups strategic aims and objectives: approving significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or disposal of companies businesses, and treasury and intellectual property transactions : and the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
The schedule of matters reserved is available to view on the Companys website.
Following the strategic review, the Board has reviewed the schedule of matters reserved and limitations of authority within the Group to ensure they remain appropriate.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 57 Attendance at meetings The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings based on membership of those Committees, rather than attendance as an invitee is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Director Eligible to attend Attended Eligible to attend Attended Eligible to attend Attended Eligible to attend Attended 1 Andrew Shilston 8 8 4 4 2 2 Pete Raby 8 8 2 2 2 Peter Turner 6 6 3 Kevin Dangerfield 2 2 4 Andrew Hosty 0 0 1, 5, 9 Helen Bunch 6 5 4 3 3 3 1 1 1 Douglas Caster 8 8 5 5 4 4 2 2 1, 6 Victoire fide Margerie 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1, 7, 9 Laurence Mulliez 6 4 4 2 3 3 1 1 1, 8, 10 Andrew Reynolds Smith 3 3 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 Rob Rowley 8 8 5 5 4 4 2 2 1.
Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
Appointed to the Board 11 April 2016.
Stepped down from the Board 31 March 2016.
Stepped down from the Board 8 January 2016.
Appointed to the Board 24 February 2016.
Stepped down from the Board 4 February 2016.
Appointed to the Board 6 May 2016.
Stepped down from the Board 6 May 2016.
D ue to prior commitments which were already in place at the time they were appointed to the Board, Helen Bunch was unable to attend the September Board and Audit Committee meetings and Laurence Mulliez was unable to attend the July and September Board and Audit Committee meetings, but Laurence Mulliez did attend the site tour and presentation and meeting with local management that was arranged to coincide with the September programme of meetings.
Andrew Reynolds Smith was unable to attend the May Remuneration Committee meeting immediately prior to his departure from the Board.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or Review and approval of the Groups half-year results, trading a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be statements and preliminary announcement of the final results.
recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors and Officers Approval of the 2017 budget.
liability insurance policy is in place.
Approval of major capital expenditure and review of major capital investment projects.
Summary of the Boards work during the year: Approval of the private placement debt refinancing.
Review of environmental, health and safety performance, including Review of the Groups principal risks.
actions to identify and mitigate catastrophic risk such as hydrogen Review and approval of the UK and US defined benefit pension safety, and monitoring the launch of the EHS Framework.
Review of business strategy and monitoring of progress on delivery Receipt of a presentation from external counsel on, and review of the execution priorities.
of procedures and policies in relation to, the EUs Market Abuse Receipt of in-depth business and strategy briefings from each of the Regulation effective from 3 July 2016. global business units, in the context of delivering the new strategy.
Consideration of major shareholders views on the Groups Approval of the appointment of Peter Turner as Chief Financial performance and prospects.
Officer, and of Helen Bunch and Laurence Mulliez as non-executive Review of the Groups IT strategy and performance, including Directors.
progress on implementation of an enterprise resource planning Review of technology, intellectual property and know-how as part system in the USA.
of the review of the technology strategic priority including plans for Review of the Groups treasury arrangements, including risk the establishment of two new research and development Centres and policy.
of Excellence, increasing investment in technology and engineering, and bringing sharper focus to new product development processes Review of outcomes of the Board performance evaluation and priorities.
and agreement on actions for further improvement, as well as monitoring of progress against actions arising from the 2015 Review of talent strategy, another execution priority, including performance review.
ensuring there are capable leaders to support the development of the business and supporting a new leadership framework scheduled for 2017 and a talent framework for materials science.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 58 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Directors The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
subject to annual re-election in accordance with the Code.
The independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Director who has served for two three-year terms is subject to Board, in order to ensure effective stewardship is exercised over the rigorous review prior to reappointment for a further three-year term.
Groups activities, including: setting the Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient time is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding Helen Bunch and Laurence Mulliez were appointed to the Board strategic issues: promoting a culture of open debate and constructive on 24 February 2016 and 6 May 2016 respectively.
challenge resulting in sound decision-making: facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors: and ensuring constructive Victoire fide Margerie and Andrew Reynolds Smith stepped down relationships between executive and non-executive Directors.
The from the Board on 4 February 2016 and 6 May 2016 respectively, Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the management of the Group, both due to an increase in other commitments.
including the delivery of the Groups business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing the Executive Committee and The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the ensuring the implementation of the Groups policies, all within the executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the authorities delegated by the Board.
The Chairman and Chief Executive year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other Officer maintain a strong working relationship and open dialogue, non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
thus ensuring coherent leadership of the Group.
Effectiveness Chairman Board balance and independence On appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2012, Andrew Shilston The size, structure and composition of the Board were reviewed met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
during the year, taking into account succession planning and the need to progressively refresh the membership and update the knowledge and range of skills and experience of the Board.
The Board is keen to NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE ensure that a balance of views and outlook is available and that the right % decisions are made.
The Board comprises members with a breadth As at 31 December 2016 of professional and sector experience and who come from various backgrounds: it has Directors with skills in the areas of strategy, finance and technology, as well as global commercial experience, and working knowledge of other Boards or executive roles.
With regard to our new non-executive members, Helen Bunch brings significant experience of driving business performance and building businesses in new markets, and offers the Board a valuable external executive perspective, while Laurence Mulliez has significant experience in growing, simplifying and Serving first three-year term 60% unifying complex international industrial manufacturing businesses.
Serving second three-year term 20% Not yet elected by shareholders 20% Further to the non-executive Director appointments outlined above, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE Peter Turner was appointed to the Board as an executive Director on % 11 April 2016.
Further information on the processes used to appoint As at 31 December 2015 the new Directors is included in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 67 to 69.
Therefore, following the departures of Andrew Hosty, Victoire fide Margerie, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Reynolds Smith during 2016, as at 23 February 2017 the Board comprises: Andrew Shilston, Chairman: Pete Raby, Chief Executive Officer: Peter Turner, Chief Financial Officer: and four independent non-executive Directors, namely Helen Bunch, Laurence Mulliez, Rob Rowley and Douglas Serving first three-year term 60% Caster, Senior Independent Director.
This is considered to be the right Serving second three-year term 40% number of members given the scale of the Groups operations at this time.
Biographies of the Directors in post at the date of this Report, including details of their other main commitments, are set out on pages 54 and 55.
Throughout the year, the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
In addition to considering the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any relationships with major suppliers and with charities receiving material support from the Company.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 59 Commitment Prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the BOARD BALANCE % Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that As at 31 December 2016 they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
There were no changes to the Chairmans other significant commitments during the year.
Information and support Executive Directors 29% The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring Independent the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to non-executive Directors 57% enable it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally made available electronically five working days before each meeting.
Chairman 14% BOARD BALANCE Non-executive Directors also receive updates and information % between formal Board meetings.
The recent appointments of both As at 31 December 2015 non-executive and executive Directors to the Board, together with the strategic review and new organisational structure, have led to changes in the way information is presented to the Board.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations Executive Directors 38% are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek Independent independent professional advice at the Companys expense in non-executive Directors 50% connection with their duties as Directors.
Chairman 12% Induction and professional development New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
A new Directors experience and background is taken into account in developing a tailored programme.
Before and after his appointment to the Board on 11 April 2016, Peter Turner received comprehensive briefings to supplement the information on the Groups business provided during recruitment.
Materials included further information on the business and its products and markets, brokers reports on the Group, the Companys corporate governance structure and processes and key Group policies.
The intensive induction programme included meetings with investors, analysts and the external auditor, and meetings with other executives and functional heads on governance, responsible business, key risks, human resources and environment, health and safety, together with numerous visits to operational sites globally and meetings with Divisional and operational management and personnel.
Helen Bunch and Laurence Mulliez also received tailored induction programmes comprising similar briefing materials and meetings to those arranged for Peter Turner, and also including a meeting with the Companys remuneration consultants.
They have visited a number of operational sites and further visits are scheduled for 2017.
All non-executive Directors have access to management and employees at all levels and are encouraged to visit operational sites.
Each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
In 2016, Board visits were made to China, and to the Rugby and Stourport sites in the UK, including the Structural Ceramics Centre of Excellence.
During 2016, the Board received briefings on the Groups tax strategy and developments in tax regulation, a presentation on the EUs Market Abuse Regulation and briefings on developments in corporate governance and remuneration.
The Chairman considers the individual training and development needs of each Director.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training and development of all Directors as necessary.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 60 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Performance evaluation The main aspects of the Boards work which the Board believes offer Following the externally facilitated review conducted in 2015, the Board scope for further development relate to implementation of the Groups conducted an internal Board performance evaluation in 2016, led by strategic review and ensuring that the Board works effectively in a time the Chairman, with the aim of identifying ways to improve effectiveness.
of significant change, and include: Assisting the non-executive Directors appointed during 2016 to The process for the evaluation of the Board and its Committees was increase their knowledge and understanding of the business and as follows: industry sector to enable them to contribute to the fullest extent Completion by all Board members of tailored questionnaires which at Board meetings.
took into account the output from the 2015 performance evaluation More effective use of the time set aside for scheduled meetings process, the current dynamic of the Board and its current priorities.
to allow greater opportunity for non-executive Directors to meet Report produced summarising the results of the questionnaires and outside Board and Committee meetings in order to strengthen highlighting any significant changes from the 2015 evaluation.
understanding and relationships on the Board.
Findings presented to the Chairman.
Continued focus on succession planning and developing leaders, which was identified as a key issue during 2016.
A framework of The Chairman met each Board member to discuss the outputs debates and reviews has been scheduled for Board meetings in from the report.
2017 in order to support the executive management in delivering The report was circulated to the Board, which had a full discussion against this strategic execution priority.
on the results and comments at its December meeting and Further improvements to the format and structure of reports to the subsequently agreed an action plan.
Board to support the Board in its monitoring of the performance of the Group.
Actions were taken during the year to implement the recommendations made following the 2015 Board performance review and, in the case of execution of the strategic review and focus on business leadership, the work is ongoing.
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE 2015 BOARD PERFORMANCE REVIEW AND ACTION IMPLEMENTED DURING 2016 Recommendations from 2015 Action taken progress made during 2016 Strategy challenging, supporting and monitoring the development Progress against the strategic execution priorities has been regularly and execution of the ongoing strategic review, with the need to reviewed by the Board.
The global business unit strategies were increase the frequency of discussions on strategy and to effectively reviewed at the June and July Board meetings, with other talent, monitor execution against it.
technology and sales effectiveness reviews during the year and a strategy wrap-up session in November.
Business leadership an increasing focus on talent management Talent management strategy and resource were discussed at the as a fundamental part of executing the Groups strategic priorities.
May and June Board meetings, with further sessions scheduled in 2017 following the appointment of a new Group Human Resources Director towards the end of 2016.
Board dynamics a focus on ensuring that the Board operates Board effectiveness is monitored by the Chairman and, as appropriate, effectively, with the right mix of skills, against a background of the Senior Independent Director over the course of the year.
There continuing Board evolution and a period of significant change has been good progress in relation to Board focus, level of constructive in the business.
challenge and dynamics following the recent changes in Board composition.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 61 The non-executive Directors, led by Douglas Caster, the Senior Relations with shareholders Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate During 2016, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into account the attended results presentations and other investor events.
This provided views of the executive Directors.
opportunities to meet institutional shareholders and other attendees and to develop an understanding of their views.
Conflicts of interest The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of the Following the announcement of the Groups results and after other Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed conflicts of interest.
Accordingly, the Directors are required to: and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board is provided with brokers reports and feedback from any shareholder Disclose proposed outside interests before they are accepted in meetings on a regular basis.
order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict.
Disclose without delay any situation which gives rise to an actual The Remuneration Committee consulted shareholders in January 2016 or potential conflict.
on changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy introduced during 2016.
There was further follow-up with institutional shareholder The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any representative bodies in April 2016 to update them on the final conflicts disclosed and authorisations annually.
Should an actual or proposals put to the 2016 AGM, commenting on the main issues which potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether to authorise emerged from the consultation and noting that there was one resultant the situation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association change to the original proposal, namely an increase in the executive and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict shareholding guidelines.
arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
the Companys website includes details of Regulatory News Service announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other Andrew Reynolds Smith, non-executive Director, who stepped down relevant Company and shareholder information.
from the Board on 6 May 2016, was appointed CEO of Smiths Group plc in September 2015.
As Morgans Seals and Bearings business is a Constructive use of the AGM supplier to John Crane, a division of Smiths Group, there was a conflict The AGM is normally attended by all members of the Board and by of interest.
The Board authorised the situational conflict, subject to the a representative of the external auditor.
At the AGM held in May 2016, Company Secretary ensuring Andrew Reynolds Smith did not receive the Chief Executive Officer made a short business presentation.
information relating to the Seals and Bearings business and that he was Shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and have excluded from any discussion or decision relating to Seals and Bearings.
the opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior On joining in April 2016, Peter Turner held shares in Smiths Group plc management before and after the formal meeting.
The results of the arising as a result of his previous employment with that company.
proxy voting on all resolutions are released to the London Stock These shares were sold in July 2016.
Exchange and published on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Neither of the current executive Directors holds any external non-executive directorships of other publicly-quoted companies.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in Accountability this statement can be found on pages 92 to 95 in the Other Financial reporting Disclosures section.
A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on pages 94 and 95 and the going concern and viability statements are set out in the Strategic Report on page 34. Business model and strategy Details of the Groups business model, how it is working to generate and sustain long-term value and details of the Boards strategy for ensuring the Group meets its objectives are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 51.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
The system of internal control, and the role of the Audit Committee in ensuring its effectiveness, are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 62 to 66.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
