62 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present the Report of the Audit Committee for 2016.
THIS REPORT GIVES It has been a busy year for the Committee as we have carried out our AN OVERVIEW OF THE primary function of ensuring the integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT management processes within the context of the implementation of COMMITTEE AND HOW IT the Groups strategic review and a new executive management team.
The Committee continues to respond to the continuing challenges of DISCHARGED THESE DURING ensuring consistent and robust financial controls across a global business 2016, TOGETHER WITH and to address the changes in governance and reporting requirements.
INFORMATION ON ITS I would like to highlight a number of key areas of focus for the MEMBERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE.
Committee in 2016, as follows: The Committee had oversight of a review of the Internal Audit function.
This included a comprehensive review of the scope, purpose and resource of the function, its programme of work and the way internal audit findings are presented.
We continued to monitor our internal controls closely and received a presentation from each Division on their internal controls and risk management.
The presentations were delivered by the Divisional Finance Directors, accompanied by their respective Divisional Presidents, which gave the Committee the opportunity to ask questions face-to-face and gain a real insight into the internal control environment and risk management approach of each Division.
Where issues were reported the Committee gave full consideration to the cause, potential or actual impact and the response by management.
The Committee received progress updates on a review by ROB ROWLEY management of the Groups approach to risk management and COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN internal controls which commenced in 2015.
The review resulted in implementation of certain changes to the control framework and processes, including a review of Group policies and processes to strengthen the second line of defence, and will continue to evolve as changes are embedded into the businesses.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Committee reviewed the key accounting judgments made by executive management, taking into account the views of the external auditor.
The key areas of significant judgment were in Rob Rowley Chairman respect of specific adjusting items, intangible asset impairment 1 Helen Bunch testing, provisions and contingent liabilities and tax balances, and Douglas Caster further details on these in relation to the 2016 financial statements 2 Laurence Mulliez are set out on page 64 of this Report.
3 Victoire fide Margerie The Committee reviewed and confirmed the appropriateness of 4 Andrew Reynolds Smith changes to financial reporting to reflect the new Group structure comprising two global Divisions and the new reporting structure 1.
From appointment on 24 February 2016. of six global business units in the financial statements.
Until resignation as a Director on 4 February 2016.
I continue to be satisfied that the Committee is working well, is 4.
Until resignation as a Director on 6 May 2016. contributing effectively to the governance framework and is properly discharging its responsibilities.
All members of the Committee are independent nonexecutive Directors and Rob Rowley, the Chairman of the Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
ROB ROWLEY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 63 Meetings Carrying out, at least annually, a review of the Groups internal The Audit Committee met five times during the year.
At the end of controls and risk management systems, including procedures for most meetings the non-executive Directors who are members of the identifying and assessing principal risks to the Groups business and Committee also meet the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit the management and mitigation of those risks.
and the Head of Responsible Business & Compliance without the Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of executive Directors or other members of management present.
whether there is a reasonable expectation, taking the Groups Between meetings the Chairman of the Audit Committee keeps in position and principal risks into account, that the Group will be able to contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the Head of Internal period covered by that assessment, prior to approval by the Board.
Reviewing and monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
Information and support Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Internal The Committee may request the attendance at meetings of any Director Audit function, approving the remit of the function and ensuring it or employee as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
has adequate standing and is free from management or other The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief restrictions.
Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Financial Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders Controller, the Head of Responsible Business & Compliance and senior for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, representatives of the external auditor attended meetings by invitation.
reappointment and removal of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the The Committee identifies and ensures that it receives the information external auditor.
it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This is complemented Subject to the current transitional provisions, ensuring that the audit by annual presentations made by the Divisional Presidents and services contract is put out to competitive tender every 10 years, Divisional Finance Directors on the internal control environment supervising any such process and overseeing the selection process and risk management within their respective Divisions.
Training and for a new auditor.
development information is made available to the members of the Audit Committee when appropriate.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Audit Committee terms of reference Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of The Audit Committee has a clear set of responsibilities and these are set the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant out in its terms of reference and agreed by the Board.
These terms of UK professional and regulatory requirements.
reference were reviewed and updated during the year to ensure that Developing and implementing the policy on the engagement of the they are wholly compliant with the September 2014 version of the UK external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account Corporate Governance Code which applied to the 2016 financial year.
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit They are available on the Companys website and are summarised below: services by the external auditor.
Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the it considers that action or improvement is needed and making financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements of recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
results, half-year reports and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial The Committee has the authority, in accordance with its terms of reporting judgments contained in them.
reference, to investigate any matters and may obtain external advice Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their at the cost of the Company, but did not do so during the year.
consistent application across the Group.
Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting Main areas of work in 2016 standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking During 2016, in addition to the areas of work outlined in the Chairmans into account the views of the external auditor.
letter above, the Committee: Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of Reviewed the Groups 2016 half-year and full-year statements prior whether it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of to Board approval.
accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Made a recommendation to the Board that it is appropriate to identification of material uncertainties to the ability to do so over prepare the accounts for the year on a going concern basis.
a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval.
Reviewed the methodology proposed for preparation of the Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and Companys first viability statement see page 34 of the Strategic advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced Report and agreed an appropriate time period for that statement and understandable and provides the information necessary for and a reasonable financial base case for that period, together with shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, an in-depth evaluation of the risks affecting the financial viability business model and strategy.
of the Company over that timeframe, all for recommendation Agreeing the processes to enable the ongoing monitoring and to the Board.
review of the scope, adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 64 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued In response to a letter from the Financial Reporting Council FRC, Received confirmation of verification of content from the authors considered the use of Alternative Performance Measures and the of each section.
accounting treatment of R&D in the Annual Report.
Received confirmation from the Chief Financial Officer that Reviewed the scope of the external audit, and confirmed the the narrative reports and financial statements are consistent.
external auditors terms of engagement and fee structure.
Reviewed a first draft of the Annual Report and Accounts prior Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and all to the financial year end.
aspects of the service provided by the external auditor.
Made a recommendation to the Board to assist the Board Monitored the level of non-audit work of the external auditor, in determining whether it is able to make the statement on which in 2016 included services amounting to 0.2 million, whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced mainly in connection with tax services.
Approved a revised policy on the provision of non-audit services The significant areas of judgment considered by the Committee by the external auditor to take effect from 2017. in relation to the 2016 financial statements, and how these were Reviewed the controls and assurance processes that are in place addressed, were as follows: to mitigate the Groups key risks.
Specific adjusting items Reviewed the effectiveness of, and received reports from In the consolidated income statement, the Group has again management on, the Groups Internal Audit and risk management presented specific adjusting items separately in order to provide systems and monitored the implementation of enhanced the best indication of the underlying performance of the Group, governance processes to monitor assurance and audit work to the and details of the nature and quantum of the individual items Groups governance, risk and compliance plans, including a review are provided in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit of Group policies.
Committee fully considered this principle and the individual items Reviewed and approved the plan, work and overall effectiveness and, taking into account guidelines issued by the FRC and peer of the Internal Audit function, monitored its progress against the group disclosure of similar items, concluded that it is the best plan and ensured that the appropriate resource was deployed way to present the Groups results.
Intangible asset impairment testing Reviewed the systems of internal controls of, and risks managed in, The latest financial projections and other assumptions support the the Divisions.
valuation of the intangible assets of the Group.
Further information Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing process and related on the goodwill generally and the sensitivities associated with the procedures and policies.
impairment calculations are given in note 11 to the financial Reviewed material litigation.
Reviewed compliance with and implementation of the Groups Provisions and contingent liabilities policies.
The level of provisioning for known and contingent liabilities, including those arising from trading, environmental issues and Reviewed the status of the Groups export controls compliance litigation, is an issue where management and third-party judgments programme.
These are addressed through the Committee and Reviewed the status of the Groups third-party representative risk.
the Board discussing with various members of senior management the key judgments made, supported, where appropriate, by Public reporting relevant external advice.
KPMG LLP also reports regularly on all The Committee, as requested by the Board, considered the Code material provisions and contingent liabilities.
During the year the requirement for the Board to make a statement on whether the Annual Group recorded redundancy and restructuring provisions in the Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
The ordinary course of business totalling 1.1 million, which are charged Committee approached this as follows: against underlying earnings but are disclosed separately to provide Considered the questions which need to be answered in order to investors with additional information to assist in their assessment evaluate whether the Annual Report and Accounts meets the fair, of the Groups performance.
Tax balances Reviewed the methodology used to construct the narrative sections Accounting for current and deferred tax involves a range of of the Annual Report.
The Committee and the Board address these issues Reviewed the disclosure judgments made by the authors of each through reporting from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director section and considered the balance of good and bad news in the of Group Tax, supported as necessary by external professional advice.
The Committee reviewed the content of the Annual Report and Received confirmation from external advisers that all regulatory Accounts and advised the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, requirements are satisfied.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 65 Internal financial control and risk management systems Financial reporting The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating Risk management systems and internal controls are in place in to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment and risk relation to the Groups financial reporting processes and the process management systems.
The Groups system of internal control has been for preparing consolidated accounts.
These include policies and in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the procedures which require the maintenance of records which Annual Report.
accurately and fairly reflect transactions and disposal of assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in of the internal control system annually and did so during the year.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, The system of internal control accords with the FRCs guidance on and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
Representatives the internal control requirements of the Code.
This review covered of the businesses are required to certify that their reported all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the controls, and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee and business and its results for the period.
The Audit Committee is Board receive regular risk management reports and together they responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and ensure there are adequate internal controls in place and that they internal controls.
Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance in the considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget following areas: that the assets of the Group are safeguarded: that and the prior year.
Divisional management teams also meet transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely regularly to review performance.
In addition, regular site visits manner: and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a are made by members of the Executive Committee.
timely period, material errors or irregularities.
The system is designed Risk management to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and The Board has undertaken a robust annual assessment of the Groups financial risks.
The identification, assessment and reporting of risks is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operational The main features of the Groups systems for internal control and management and steps are taken to mitigate and manage all material for assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are risks including those relating to the Groups business model, solvency summarised as follows: and liquidity.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Control environment Committee, receives updates on risks, internal controls and future The Groups control environment is underpinned by the Groups actions from both Divisional and Group perspectives.
This covers financial procedures, environmental, health Committee also reviews risk management and internal controls and safety practice, compliance eg anti-bribery and corruption, for all principal Group risks.
The Groups risk management system, and trade compliance and other areas such as IT and HR.
There as set out in the Risk Management section on pages 18 to 22, is a Limit of Authorities Policy which describes the matters reserved supports the going concern statement on page 34 and the viability for the Board and the delegations granted to the Chief Executive statement on page 34.
The Group operates various Risk factors programmes to continuously improve the control environment The Groups businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of and management of risk.
These include the Groups Responsible which are influenced by macro-economic trends and are therefore Business Programme, which includes relevant training, the provision outside the Companys immediate control, although, as described of systems to help businesses manage risk consistently, and above and in the Strategic Report, the identification and management reporting processes.
The external ethics hotline is available to of such risks is carried out systematically.
These are further discussed employees to raise concerns and all reports made to the ethics in the Risk Management section on pages 18 to 22. hotline are investigated by senior management.
The Divisional Internal Audit Presidents and other senior operational and functional management The Groups Internal Audit function reviews internal control and risk make an annual statement of compliance to the Board confirming management processes.
The Audit Committee approves the annual that, for each of the businesses for which they are responsible, Internal Audit plan and receives regular reports showing the results the financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects, of these audits.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are appropriate systems of internal controls have been developed agreed with management and the Audit Committee monitors and maintained and the businesses comply with Group policies and progress against outstanding actions.
The Head of Internal Audit has procedures or have escalated known exceptions to an appropriate direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and meets level of management.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives privately with the Audit Committee without executive management an annual presentation on business risk and internal controls for at least twice per year.
both Divisions from the Divisional President and Finance Director.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 66 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Audit Committee and the external auditor The external auditor has processes in place to safeguard its The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG LLP that independence and has written to the Committee confirming that, its general approach and practices support the auditors independence in its opinion, it is independent.
The Group last changed its auditor and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such in late 2001.
The external auditor rotated the partner responsible for procedures, the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors the Groups audit work in 2008 and 2013.
The Code required that objectivity and independence were safeguarded despite the provision FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to of non-audit services by KPMG LLP.
tender at least every 10 years.
The Company followed the guidance issued by the FRC on transitional arrangements on tendering which To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external permit KPMG LLP to continue in office until 2018 without an audit auditor, the policy, which applied to the 2016 financial year, tender.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and implemented by the Committee for the provision of non-audit services all aspects of the service provided by the auditor, and taking account by the external auditor is in summary as follows: of the assurance given by the auditor as to its independence, the Committee recommended to the Board that the Groups external Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external audit work should be put out to third-party tender no earlier than auditor, including: the review of their own work: they may not 2018 when the current audit engagement partner is due to rotate make management decisions: their work must not create a and no later than 2023, which is the latest date by which the Company mutuality of interest: and they may not put themselves in the must change its auditor as permitted by the EU Audit Regulations position of advocate.
The Company has complied with the Any permissible non-audit work proposed to be placed with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authoritys Order on external auditor with a fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must statutory audit services.
be approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Projects in excess of 200,000 must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Work which includes multiple phases is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
As a result of the implementation of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive, the Committee approved a revised policy on the provision of non-audit services to apply with effect from the 2017 financial year which further reduced the scope of non-audit services the auditor may provide and reinforced the process for approval of services provided by the auditor.
In 2016, the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work relative to the audit fee was 8% 2015: 14%.
The Committees policy is to undertake an annual review of the effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external auditors performance and independence before determining whether to undertake a formal review of the auditor, including a re-tender presentation, or whether to put the Groups audit work out to full third-party tender.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016
