Governance Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has prepared this report in compliance 7,595 2015 21,000 paid to the auditor during the year with the September 2014 Competition and Markets under review were for i taxation services including one off Authority Authority Order.
claims for withholding tax repayments: ii services in connection with the electronic filing of tax returns: and iii Audit Committee services in connection with the calculation of B Ordinary As recommended by the AIC Code, an Audit Committee has share capitalisation ratios.
Going forward the extent of non been established with written terms of reference, copies of audit services that can be provided by EY has become very which are available upon request from the Company limited.
The Committee has approved the on-going supply Secretary and on the Company's website.
The Audit by EY of services in connection with the electronic filing of Committee comprises the whole Board excluding Dr Carter tax returns and will continue to monitor any other future and I, Marcia Campbell, am the Chairman.
The members of fees in the light of the requirement to maintain the the Audit Committee are each independent and free from auditors independence and objectivity further any relationship that would interfere with our impartial information surrounding the provision of non audit services judgement in carrying out our responsibilities.
We have by the auditor is provided on page 41: satisfied ourselves that at least one of the Committees we review a statement from the Manager detailing the members has recent and relevant financial experience.
We arrangements in place within Aberdeen whereby Aberdeen met three times during the year.
staff may, in confidence, escalate concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed matters: and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
In we make recommendations in relation to the appointment accordance with those terms of reference: of the auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditor: and we review and monitor the internal control systems and we monitor and review the auditors independence, risk management systems including review of non financial objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
risks and the Managers policy on information security cyber risk on which the Company is reliant.
The Directors Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are statement on the Companys internal controls and risk shown in the Directors Report.
management is set out in the Directors Report: we consider whether there is a need for the Company to The Board has received a report from EY, its auditor, which have its own internal audit function: notes that EY has policies and procedures in place that instil we monitor the integrity of the half yearly and annual professional values as part of its firms culture and ensure financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and that the highest standards of objectivity and independence challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of and integrity are maintained.
the Manager: we review, and report to the Board on, the significant The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit financial reporting issues and judgements made in services provided by the independent auditor during the year, connection with the preparation of the Companys financial together with the independent auditors procedures in statements, interim reports, announcements and related connection with the provision of such services, and remains formal statements: satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence is we review the content of the Annual Report and financial being safeguarded.
Up to 31 December 2016 EY was statements and make recommendations to the Board on retained to provide non audit services to the Company in whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and areas such as regional tax compliance and the Audit understandable and provides the information necessary for Committee has reviewed each arrangement on on a case by shareholders to assess the Companys performance, case basis in order to ensure that there is no impact upon the business model and strategy: auditors independence.
The level of non audit fees payable we meet with the auditor to review the proposed audit by the Company is not material in any way for EY and the programme of work and the findings of the auditor.
The Audit Committee confirms its belief that EY is independent in Directors also use this as an opportunity to assess the accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
From effectiveness of the audit process: 1 January 2017, following the implementation of the we also meet in private with the auditor, without any European Audit Regulation Directive, EY is no longer able to representatives of the Manager being present and we meet provide any significant non audit services to the Company in private with a representative from the Managers internal and Deloitte has been retained to provide local tax audit department: compliance work to the company.
we develop and implement policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
Non-audit fees of Murray International Trust PLC 41 Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued have determined that the Company has adequate resources, Potential Issues an appropriate financial structure and suitable management During our review of the Companys financial statements for arrangements in place to continue in operational existence the year ended 31 December 2016, we considered the for at least 12 months.
following potential issues: Review of Auditor and EU Audit Reforms Valuation, Existence and Ownership of Investments Mitigation - The valuation of investments is undertaken in We have reviewed the effectiveness of the auditor including: accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in notes 2 a and 2 c to the financial statements on page 56.
All independence - the Auditor discusses with the Audit investments are quoted and can be verified against daily Committee, at least annually, the steps it takes to ensure its market prices.
83.5% of investments are considered to be independence and objectivity and makes the Committee liquid and are therefore categorised as Level 1 in accordance aware of any potential issues, explaining all relevant with the FRS 102 fair value hierarchy.
16.5% of investments safeguards: are considered to be subject to some risk of illiquidity and quality of audit work including the ability to resolve are therefore categorised as Level 2 within the FRS 102 fair issues in a timely manner - identified issues are value hierarchy.
The portfolio is reviewed and verified by the satisfactorily and promptly resolved: its Manager on a regular basis and management accounts communications presentation of outputs - the explanation including a full portfolio listing are prepared each month and of the audit plan, any deviations from it and the subsequent circulated to the Board.
BNY Mellon has been appointed as audit findings are comprehensive and comprehensible: and custodian and depositary to safeguard the assets of the working relationship with management - the auditor has a Company.
The depositary checks the consistency and constructive working relationship with the Board and the accuracy of its records on a monthly basis and reports its Manager: and findings to AFML.
Separately, the investment portfolio is quality of people and service including continuity and reconciled regularly by the Manager.
succession plans - the audit team is made up of sufficient, suitably experienced staff with provision made for Correct Calculation of Management Fees knowledge of the investment company sector and retention Mitigation - The management fees are calculated by the or rotation of the partner.
Manager and reviewed periodically by the Board and auditor.
EY, and predecessor firms, have held office as auditor since Recognition of Investment Income the incorporation of the Company in 1907.
In accordance Mitigation - The recognition of investment income is with present professional guidelines the Senior Statutory undertaken in accordance with accounting policy note 2 b Auditor is rotated after no more than five years and the year to the financial statements on page 56.
Special dividends are ended 31 December 2016 will be the first year for which the allocated to the capital or revenue accounts according to the present Senior Statutory Auditor has served.
The Committee nature of the payment and the intention of the underlying considers EY, the Companys auditor, to be independent of company.
The Manager provides monthly internal control the Company.
The Audit Committee arranged, in 2013, a reports to the Board together with monthly revenue tender for the Companys external audit and invited EY to forecasts and dividend schedules.
participate, alongside a number of other audit firms of varying size.
Following the tender, the Audit Committee Compliance with Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Income recommended to the Board that the reappointment of EY as and Corporate Taxes Act 2010 auditor be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM and Mitigation - Approval for the Company as an investment shareholders approved the reappointment of EY as auditor at trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years the AGM in April 2014.
Under EU regulations, EY are required commencing on or after 1 January 2012 has been obtained to rotate as auditor no later than the completion of the audit and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is in respect of the year ending 31 December 2020 and, monitored on a regular basis by the Manager and Board.
A accordingly, the Board expects to hold the next tender for serious breach of the eligibility criteria could give rise to the external audit services in 2019 at the latest.
Company becoming subject to tax on any chargeable gains.
The Committee considers EY, the Companys auditor, to be Going Concern independent of the Company and therefore has Mitigation - The Directors have considered the Companys recommended to the Board that the reappointment of EY be investment objective and risk management policies, the put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow projections in conjunction with the formulation of the Viability Statement contained on page 10.
As a result, they 42 Annual Report 2016 FRC Review of 2015 Annual Report The Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 was selected for review by the Conduct Committee of the Financial Reporting Council as part of a routine sample of published Annual Reports.
The review work of the FRC was based solely upon the content of the published Annual Report and did not benefit from any detailed knowledge of the Companys business.
I am pleased to report that, based upon the review undertaken by the FRC, there were no questions or queries that the FRC wished to raise in relation to the 2015 Annual Report.
For and on behalf of the Audit Committee Marcia Campbell Audit Committee Chairman 10 March 2017 Murray International Trust PLC 43
