Strategic Report Resources, relationships and responsibilities Focused on our Vision: driven by our Values Our Vision and Values continue to underpin the way we run ourbusiness.
Our aim is to be recognised internationally as amarket leader and our Values provide focus in achieving this.
During 2016 we continued to make progress in delivering against our five Values Excellence, Safety, Customers, Peopleand Community Excellence We constantly strive to be excellent in all that we do Safety Excellence We only do what is safe and stop any unsafe behaviour Our success as a business is dependent upon us securing and maintaining a reputation for operational excellence.
For existing customers this means consistently delivering the services they want at competitive prices they can afford.
For new customers it means demonstrating to them that we will Customers provide the service they want in a convenient way while offering We place them at the heart of our business and relentlessly good value for money.
meet their expectations A measure of our success is through external accreditation.
During the year, UK Coach joined c2c in achieving a five-star EFQM rating.
UK Bus and ALSA each hold a four-star EFQM rating and will be looking to achieve a higher score when they are next assessed in 2017.
North America continues to hold a People Bronze Award from the Illinois Performance Excellence Center, We develop the talents, reward the exceptional performance increasing the score by 50% in their 2016 assessment.
and respect the rights of all our employees Alongside our excellence accreditations, we were pleased to win another record number of industry awards during the year, reflecting the exceptional achievements of our employees and the best practice they deliver.
In particular, National Express West Midlands was judged Bus Operator of the Year in the Community National Transport Awards, The Kings Ferry won UK Coach We are active in the communities we serve togenerate Operator of the Year at the UK Coach Awards and ALSA was economic, social and environmental value awarded the best customer experience for transport in Spain.
In December the Group Chief Executive, Dean Finch, launched a new initiative to champion operational across the business.
The Delivering Excellence programme will review the way businesses in the Group carry out similar operational functions to seek best practice, learn from any external examples and then develop a Global Operating Standard for that activity.
This programme will both look to further embed excellence across the business and draw on talented individuals across the Group to develop the skills and experience of future managers.
22 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Three months after the tragic accident in Chattanooga, the regulatory authorities have not identified any faults in our maintenance systems, or the background screening, training ormanagement of our driver.
The underlying reduction in FWI reflects the investment we have made in systems and training to reduce accidents.
For example, Lytx DriveCam is now installed across the UK Coach fleet, and is being rolled out across UK Bus, ALSA and North America.
This provides video evidence of how drivers areperforming and it helps us to monitor individual driving behaviours and provide tailored training.
Our safety achievements have continued to be recognised by external bodies during 2016.
We were pleased to be honoured Above: In December, our Driving Out Harm safety programme was with a Prince Michael International Road Safety Award which recognised at the Prince Michael International Road Safety Awards recognised our Driving Out Harm programme.
The award was Left: UK Coach was successful in achieving a five-star EFQM rating following its assessment in 2016 inthe Safer Road Users category, particularly focusing on our work to reduce accidents in Morocco.
Another highlight was the award of the British Safety Council Sword of Honour to all three of our UK businesses: Bus, Coachand Rail alongside them all achieving five-star ratings.
Safety The members of each of our Divisional Boards and Group Safety will always be the highest priority for our business.
Executive continue to make safety tours, providing both Overall responsibility for safety sits with Dean Finch, Group assurance and the visible confirmation of the importance of Chief Executive, and our Divisional Managing Directors who safety in the Group.
During 2016, 774 safety tours were made setout annual plans and priorities for improved performance.
We publish this figure annually as a demonstration of our commitment to safety.
We have commented on the tragic incident in Chattanooga in the Chairmans, the Group Chief Executives and the North Figure 1: Safety Fatalities and Weighted Injuries FWI 20 America reviews of the year.
These make clear our profound sorrow that such an accident should happen on one of our 15 buses, that we have pledged our full support to the ongoing investigations and identified the actions we are already taking.
10 We will learn any necessary lessons and implement any appropriate changes that the ongoing investigations identify.
5 0 Arthur D Little continues to act as our external safety adviser.
2014 2015 2016 2016 Each year they undertake a review of our safety performance including Chattanooga and systems and we have again included a summary written by them on the next page.
Figure 2: Million miles mm vs FWI trend We use the Fatalities and Weighted Injuries FWI as our key safety Million miles FWI MM FWI MM Including Chattanooga indicator.
In 2016, as a result of the Chattanooga incident we 680 0.06 scored 17.823, compared with 12.242 in 2015.
Excluding 650 0.05 Chattanooga, the FWI was 11.323, in a year when we carried more passengers and ran more services see Figure 1 right.
Figure 2 620 0.04 also illustrates our FWI alongside our significant increase in mileage 590 0.03 as our business has grown, demonstrating we have consistently delivered significant reductions on this measure as well.
560 0.02 530 0.01 500 0.00 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 23 Strategic Report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued Independent Safety Performance Review Arthur D Little has been engaged as an independent safety consultant at National Express since 2010, including helpingto createand launch the Driving Out Harm safety programme.
Since the programme was developed we haveconducted six annualreviews of each divisions safety progress and performance.
We report our findings to the PLC Board and make recommendations for improvements.
We have visited a wide range of operational locations in all businesses.
We draw on our experience of a range of client organisations worldwide and consider Driving Out Harm tobe an excellent safety programme with very strong leadership from the Chief Executive, and highly effective safety governance from the Executive and PLC Board.
Our 2016 safety review has reached the following overallconclusions: Taken in isolation, responsible harm was higher than inprevious years, which has otherwise trended downwards year on year since 2011.
The increase was due to a serious accident in North America setting this aside, total responsible harm was 10% lower than in 2015 and 60% lower than in 2011 when Driving Out Harm was initiated Reported collisions in 2016 are flat but the vast majority Right: Nearly 100 Platinum buses are very minor and average severity is decreasing have joined our fleet during the year.
These provide extra legroom and further supportingour view that the continuing focus free wifi onDriving Out Harm is delivering clear ongoing Far right: We have launched Group-wide improvements insafety management ALSAcab, a new door-to-door New businesses have made good progress in safety car-pooling service, in Madrid, and, by leveraging the approaches and standards within which provides a shared transfer Driving Out Harm, are demonstrating standards above totheir homes those which are typical in-country.
This is a consistent finding from our visits and reviews There is a very clear Group-led focus on further strengthening the primary area of risk safe driving: World Class Driver was launched at the end of 2015.
2016 has seen strong buy-in to this programme from the divisions with specific improvements already During 2016, we continued to deliver evident, and clear direction forfurther improvements over the next three years new customer initiatives which Where installed, smart camera Lytx DriveCam systems enhance passengers experience are being very effectively used to strengthen driver standards.
Plans to roll these out extensively are now in oftravelling with us.
place, which will bring a further step change in safety.
Aside from driving, there have been continued reductions in lost time injuries across the Group The Group has set clear priorities for further improvement, based on learning from accidents, andstrong ongoing review.
These priorities include accelerating smart camera fitment and developing standardised approaches to driver evaluations and monitoring.
In particular: The roll-out of DriveCam is a significant opportunity to enhance driver performance, through performance monitoring and targeted training.
However, it also requires enhanced management capabilities to maximise the opportunity Greater consistency in implementing World Class Driverwill also help achieve the Groups goals Marcus Beard Associate Director, Arthur D Little 24 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 During the year, we launched Auto Delay Repay in c2c, the first UK rail operator to automatically compensate passengers for delays, and Flexi-Season tickets another industry first which benefits part time workers.
Our focus on providing excellent customer service continues to be recognised externally.
For the fourth year running, UK Coach has been ranked as the most trusted ground transportation brand by the UKs Institute of Customer Service.
In Spain, ALSAwon an award for the Best Customer Experience Initiative Involving Employees in the Asociacin para el Desarrollo fide la Experiencia fide Cliente Awards Association for the Development of Customer Service.
Our introduction of contactless ticketing on the Midland Metro led to the Best Customer Initiative at the Global Light Rail Awards.
Customers People Customers lie at the heart of our business, and maintaining Every division conducts an annual employee survey, except theirloyalty is key to our success.
During 2016, we continued inALSA where they hold one every two years.
These todeliver new customer initiatives which enhance passengers confidential surveys are run by independent companies: experience of travelling with us.
VaLUENTiS in the UK: TNS Employee Insights in North America: and ALCOR in ALSA.
The results of these provide a measure The launch of the VUER app in UK Coach provides customers ofemployee engagement and influence how we make National with a varied package of entertainment and information Express a better place to work.
delivered to their own phone or tablet.
VUER is the first infotainment system for coach passengers in the UK, and The following table shows our employee engagement scores isbeing rolled out across the fleet.
It is proving popular, with over the last four years.
We continue to record high scores customer satisfaction scores for those coach passengers across the Group.
For the third year running, UK Coach has whohave used VUER 5% higher than those who have not.
registered the highest score for the bus and coach industry inthe VaLUENTiS database at 732.
UK Bus achieved it In UK Bus, we introduced nearly 100 new Platinum buses, highestever engagement score of 692, ahead of the bus extending them to Black Country routes.
Platinums are more andcoach industry average of 672.
North America, using fuel efficient than conventional buses, and provide more acomparable methodology, scored 805 and Bahrain, which legroom for passengers who can make use of free WiFi and completed its first survey, scored 789.
These survey results, the commitment to invest in our staff and ALSAcab is a new carpooling door-to-door service launched in the innovations we are bringing to this area demonstrate the Madrid, which enables customers to book a shared car transfer seriousness with which we take our People Value to develop as part of their journey.
ALSAcab allows customers to make the talents, reward the exceptional performance and respect useof ALSA long-distance services with the convenience of a therights of our employees.
shared car transfer from coach station to home.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 25 Strategic Report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued Our Master Driver programme has continued to champion best practice in driving, with 4,800 drivers either qualified to Our commitment to our people Master or Advanced Driver standard across Spain, Morocco We have a number of policies in place to protect the and the UK.
Master Driver provides a framework to measure rightsofour employees.
Our Workplace Rights Policy the performance of drivers and identify those with an andHumanRights Policy have been in place for a impeccable safety record and outstanding driving skills.
numberof years and are published on our website.
Weinvestigate and take appropriate action to deal Our innovative Health Bus in UK Bus continues to support withany alleged breaches ofthese policies.
Wherever the wellbeing of our employees, and was recognised with a ouremployees choose to berepresented by unions, Nursing in the Community award at the UK Nursing Times weactively seek to maintain relationships based on Awards the leading awards for the nursing profession.
Similar mutual respect and transparency.
health checks have been introduced in other areas of the Group.
We recognise the importance of the provisions of the Employee, senior management and Director numbers Modern Slavery Act, which came into effect in 2015. bygender at end of 2016 TheGroup has a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking and remains committed Male Female tostrengthening its practices to uphold that approach.
Toreflect our commitment to acting ethically and with Directors 7 2 integrity, and to implementing and enforcing effective Senior managers 65 16 systems and controls to ensure slavery and human All employees 26,114 18,887 trafficking is not taking place in our business or supply chains, we have developed a number of initiatives in Employee engagement score 2016, including the development of a new Modern 1,000 SlaveryPolicy.
We will be publishing a signed copy oftheGroupsfirst Modern Slavery Statement on our 800 website during the year.
This statement will set out allsteps taken by the Group in this financial year to 600 ensurethat there is no slavery or human trafficking inourbusiness or supply chains.
We will review the 400 effectiveness of the steps we have taken each year andreport on this in subsequent statements.
200 0 North UK UK UK America Bus Coach Rail M aximum score is 1,000.
Spain conducts employee satisfaction surveys biannually and so is excluded.
Employee engagement survey I would recommend my company as a good place to work % 100 80 60 40 20 0 North UK UK UK America Bus Coach Rail Our Master Driver programme is championing best practice in driving skills across the Group 26 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Community We are rooted in the heart of the communities we serve.
Aside In UK Bus, our garages continued their partnerships with a local from providing vital transport services, we have a duty tobe a charity of their choice.
This provides a focus for local fundraising good neighbour and manage our impacts on the environment.
activity, raising just over 10,000 between them in 2016.
In every place we operate, we maintain links with local Our UK Employee Charity Panel, which supports employees stakeholders to engage them on relevant matters.
For example, who carry out fundraising or volunteer for community groups, we seek to engage local councillors and community groups made 56 awards during the year.
when planning changes to services.
This engagement helps create a more receptive environment for change.
We assess ALSA has launched a programme to encourage the integration thestrength of these relationships through holding annual of people with disabilities through training, inclusion and stakeholder surveys.
Called What are you capable of?, it aims to help disabled people to fully develop their professional competences Our community engagement activities across the Group and demonstrate their abilities.
ALSA directly employs the continue to focus particularly on supporting young people.
individuals through agreements with organisations that work with disabled people.
During 2016, 11 courses have been The National Express Foundation, in its fifth year, continues to delivered to 93 students, of which 46 went on to be employed support young people through educational bursaries and grants by the Company.
Following an increase in funding from the Group, the Foundation was able to support an even greater In North America, our School Bus operations reach across 34 number of young people in 2016.
By the end of last year over US states and four Canadian provinces.
They are a highly visible 11,000 young people had benefited from grants totalling part of the community and our employees give up their time to 535,000 since the launch in 2012. help local causes.
This includes Stuff the Bus initiatives and offering transport for Special Olympics events.
We also donate As part of its Youth Promise, UK Coach encourages its redundant buses to support local projects, such as the employees to spend a day volunteering for one of our partner Huntsville City Schools Summer Feeding programme in charities.
Uptake has been encouraging with 146 people Alabama, which provides free meals to children during the nearly 10% of the workforce giving their time in 2016.
Promise partners The Princes Trust, Whizz-Kidz and Scouts have now been joined by the Girl Guides.
Like Scouts, this Across the Group, we made charitable donations totalling partnership provides Guiding groups with 25% discount on 562,125 2015: 530,431. coach travel.
Bus donations such as this one in Huntsville, Alabama, make a huge difference to the local community Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 27 Strategic Report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued Environment Across seven countries we have a series of carbon intensity Managing our environmental impacts reduction programmes linked to energy and water use in our We are committed to working in partnership with our stakeholders buildings and the broader supply chain to help mitigate our and partners to mitigate the impact of climate change.
At National Express we recognise we have an important role in In 2016, our success in curbing our own emissions was enabling and delivering climate change strategies, both in terms demonstrated with external recognition in the areas of voluntary ofvehicles and sites.
carbon and water reporting, climate change leadership and environmental excellence.
Although we have a global fleet of around 29,000 vehicles, we continue to significantly reduce our carbon emissions through a We are determined to continually improve the extent and accuracy combination of cultural commitment to improvement, capital of our data and reporting.
We have identified remaining data issues investment and research into pioneering fuel efficiency technologies.
in this report but are pleased to continue to perform well in external rankings such as the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Carbon Saver Standard.
Environmental Performance KPIs targets 2014-2017 In 2016, we made significant progress towards achieving our environmental performance targets to reduce fuel traction energy, site-based energy, waste, water and total carbon emissions per million passenger kilometres pass.
km from our business activities.
The data has been restated to reflect improved coverage of data across the UK Coach business with additional data included from 2013onwards, which serves as the baseline year for our data.
km per million passenger km Summary for 2016 The increase in site energy emissions is principally as a result of an increase in reported electricity consumption in North America The increased volume of waste to landfill is as a result of improved reporting.
UK Coach supplied data for the first time in 2015 and improved the scope and completeness of reporting further in 2016 Significant improvement in water consumption reporting.
In 2015, approximately 85% of water data was estimated.
This has reduced to 18% estimated in 2016.
The baseline is calculated from 2014 Passenger kilometre pass.
km figures have increased by 16.2% between 2013 and 2016 whereas total emissions have increased by just 8% over the same period resulting in the reported improvements in carbon efficiency.
As the business grows this metric is likely to see year on year fluctuations within a longer-term trend for improved efficiency Note: As data quality continues to improve as a result of improved visibility, we have restated our absolute emissions and associated KPIs across the full reporting period, including 2013, 2014 and 2015.
The principal changes relate to improved data quality for UK Coach, particularly around the emissions associated with the divisions contract arrangements.
28 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions reporting 2016 The largest category to see an increase is in leased vehicles UK GHG emissions 2002 vs 2016 tCO e e in 2015 to 1,254 and business travel, from 641 tonnes CO 2 2 tonnes CO e in 2016.
This has been attributed to an increase in 1,200,000 2 air travel due to the growing international footprint of the Group.
800,000 As a result of substantial business growth in ALSA and North America, an increase in carbon emissions can be seen, with 400,000 ourUK Coach division reporting a 4% year on year increase dueto the inclusion of partner operators for the first time.
Carbon emissions 2016 saw a 7% increase in total CO e emissions for the Group As a Group we have invested heavily in improving the data 2 to 904,656 tonnes CO e from 846,496 tonnes CO e in2015.
collection and reporting to improve accuracy.
The outcome of this 2 2 This increase in emissions was driven by new business approach in particular can be seen in four areas: leased vehicles opportunities in Germany, our first full year of operation in and business travel: our bus operations in Bahrain: UK Coach: Bahrain and organic business growth in both North America and, our School Bus and Transit operations in North America.
These changes saw a jump in the Groups passenger kilometres from 37 billion in 2015 to 41 A positive carbon emission reduction trend can be seen in the UK billion in 2016, a year on year increase of 9.5%.
That this growth Bus and Rail divisions with both showing year on year reductions in passenger numbers has been achieved with only a 7% as a result of continued investment in new fleet.
For instance, UK increase in carbon emission over the same period is due to Bus has invested 8 million in 100 new Euro 6 Platinum buses.
investment in new fleet, driver training and on site energy Built in Britain, these Platinum buses are lighter, more fuel efficient savings initiatives.
and, with their Euro 6 engines all Low Carbon Emissions certified, are cited as amongst the cleanest in the world.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 29 Strategic Report Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued National Express GHG 2013 2016 by division all scores Driving environmental excellence tCO e One of our key goals to achieve Excellence in our environmental 2 performance is to ensure external standards are maintained.
2013 2014 2015 2016 In 2016, this goal was achieved through the enhancement and 350,000 extension of our existing ISO BS energy and environmental 300,000 accreditations.
Significant achievements were made by ALSA, with 250,000 international certifications renewed in the EU eco-management and audit scheme EMAS.
This is a premium management instrument 200,000 to evaluate, report and improve environmental performance.
150,000 Wealso maintained the ISO 14064 standard, a GHG emissions 100,000 integrated programme aimed at measuring, quantifying and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, along with both ISO 50,000 14001:2004 and 50001:2011 management standards.
0 Spain UK UK UK North Leased Bahrain German Morocco Bus Coach Rail America vehicles Rail Our operations in the US saw successes in the NSTA National inc. Midland & business School Transportation Association Green Fleet Certification Metro travel programme.
This is an environmental stewardship award recognising school bus operators for their efforts to reduce National Express Group Total Emissions 2013 2016 theirfleet emissions by over 90%, and accelerate the adoption of newer engine and emission reduction technologies.
tCO e 2 1,000,000 Endorsed by the USA Environmental Protection Agencys Clean 800,000 School Bus USA programme, Platinum and Gold certification levels were awarded to Durham School Services in Ottumwa, 600,000 Iowa and Indianapolis, Indiana, and to Stock Transportation in 400,000 Halifax, Nova Scotia.
200,000 Carbon Saver Standard performance 0 During the year all our UK divisions achieved the Carbon Saver 2013 2014 2015 2016 Gold Standard for the third time.
We achieved an increase of 15% in our performance score two years ago.
This achievement Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting for 2016 tCO e is testament to our seven-year programme of reducing 2 carbonemissions through a continued commitment in driving sustainability, cutting our energy costs and adopting carbon emissions reduction measures in both fleet and site operations.
Water disclosure In 2016, we were awarded a performance band level B from the Global Water Disclosure Program.
This was the first time the Group has reported to the Water Disclosure Progam, and is the only public transport company in CDPs Industrial category.
Thisprogramme requires us to identify our water risks and opportunities, providing greater transparency.
Measurement and transparency Coach owned & third party Spain Morocco In 2016, we made a significant improvement in data Bus inc. Metro North America collectionand target setting, with all divisions adopting a UK Rail c2c Bahrain Group-wide web-based sustainability reporting system for German Rail Leased vehicles and ourGHG accounting system.
business travel UK 30 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We use the resulting data to guide our energy and fuel reduction Fleet technologies activities.
These are centered on: We continue to implement pioneering fleet technologies acrossour business, sharing innovative low carbon solutions behaviour change by drivers, resulting in improved miles toimprove efficiencies and achieve sustainable performance.
pergallon figures investment in Solar photovoltaics and smart metering We are working with Birmingham City Council on a project to technologies at our site locations deploy 20 hydrogen buses in 2018, and have secured funding investment in new low carbon fleet, including hydrogen forlow emissions projects including electric buses.
fuel-based vehicles, and retrofitting of new technologies toexisting fleet to improve efficiency In addition, we have secured 2.2 million of government funding towards a programme to upgrade 210 buses with emissions We continue to re-define our environment reporting processes traps, which upgrade older buses to Euro 6 standards.
across the Group, providing greater visibility and ownership.
These have helped attain a number of environmental awards, Global GHG emissions data for calendar year 2016 and in achieving Carbon Reporting CDP and Commitment to 2014 2015 2016 Climate Change via Science Based Targets.
Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes of CO e of CO e of CO e 2 2 2 In 2016, for the third year running, we improved our ranking in Global GHG emissions data for calendar year 2016 emissions from: the global Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
We achieved a Combustion of fuel and Climate Change Performance Band level B, an improvement operation of facilities onlast year level C. This achievement signals we are a GHG Protocol Scope 1 754,859 771,922 799,929 company that continues to embed climate change into our Electricity, heat, steam and corporate business strategy.
cooling purchased for own use GHG Protocol Scope 2 67,186 66,317 95,107 Commitment to climate Change Action via Science Based Targets Other upstream emissions In 2015, we made two business-focused Climate Change GHG Protocol Scope 3 8,228 8,257 9,620 ActionCommitments the only listed public transport company Total 830,273 846,496 904,656 globally to do so: Percentage 1.
Reporting climate change-related information in our 2016 vs mainstream reports 2014 for KPIs from 2.
Adoption of science based emissions reduction targets Intensity metrics 2014 2015 2016 2014 tonnes CO e 2 We continue to adopt Group-wide emissions targets in line with million revenue 445 428 430 -3.37% climate science and we can now better plan our longer-term Group totals e per million goals 2030 to 2050: our intensity eg tCO 2 million pass.
km 37,450 37,540 41,107 9.77% passenger km and absolute target metrics.
Completing a heatmap which will acknowledge all of our Scope 3 emissions total tCO e per 2 supply chain our targets will then be verified in accordance million pass.
km 22.46 22.55 22.01 -2.00% withthe Science Based Targets initiatives Call to Action criteria by April 2017.
GHG emissions reportingmethodology Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition we have National Express has reported on all of the emission sources calculated emissions associated with electricity consumption required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report solely using the location-based Scope 2 calculation method.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
Wedo not have We have used a materiality threshold of 5% and have accounted responsibility for any emission sources thatare not included for all material sources of GHG emissions.
We are committed to ensuring that our GHG accounting The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is system, results and accompanying reports remain robust: theGHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting they continue to enhance our Group-level year on year Standard revised edition, together with the latest emission emission performance: and are in compliance with the factors from recognised public sources including, but not mandatory requirement of the Carbon Reporting Framework limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Reports Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Regulations 2013, for GHG emissions to be included in Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on theAnnual Group Financial Directors report.
In applying the GHG Protocol Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 31
