Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Report Dear fellow Shareholder Mike McKeon As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce Audit Committee Chair this report which sets out how the Audit Committee the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year.
Following the changes in the Committees composition last year, we have enjoyed a stable membership throughout the period toaddress the subjects on our agenda.
We were pleased to welcome Stephen Griggs from Deloitte as our new statutory auditor and would like to thank Nigel Mercer for his work in that How the Audit Committee spent role over the previous five years.
its time in 2016 The Committee continues to play a key oversight role for the Financial statements and external audit 46% Board and its focus remains on assuring the maintenance, Risk management and internal controls 7% integrity and quality of our financial reporting and controls.
We Internal audit 19% dothis in conjunction with management, internal and external IT risk strategy cyber security 13% audit and by addressing any subjects that are of interest to the Tax treasury 7% Committee.
We continually seek to challenge ourselves to ensure Committee governance 8% our work addresses the key areas of significance to the Group.
Over the year, we addressed several new subjects as well as reviewing more established areas through a different lens.
We met a number of senior managers who were leading these matters.
Thenew Group Risk Director presented his updated assessment of Group risk to the July Committee with a fresh set of eyes.
He brings new insights from his experience of risk management in other parts of the transport industry, especially in the area of insurance management in North America, and we look forward toworking with him over the coming years.
During the year, wedeepened our attention on cyber security, which had been identified as a risk in 2015.
We received an assessment carried outbyexternal consultants of our current position along with a management prepared detailed programme of work to address any gaps over the coming months and year.
This will be an ongoing area of review by the Committee overseen by managements Cyber Security Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director and ledby the Group Chief Information Officer.
The impact of Brexit onthe Groups operations was also introduced into the Group Risk process and the Committee will look to support the whole Board in assessing the implications of this evolving subject which is covered in more detail on page 36.
We were pleased to see the new Head of Group Internal Audit presenting a modified and insightful approach into how he plans the annual audit programme which will provide a better linkage of identified risk, prior audit outcomes and other external factors into the programme.
We approved the new approach and look forward to seeing the benefits of this going forward.
During the year, with the support of the Group Tax Director andGroup Finance Director, we took a first look at how we willaddress the new requirement to publish a UK Tax Strategy by December 2017.
76 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As always, we look at future evolving trends and what whole, is required to have competence relative to the sector in publications and recommendations are being made by the UK which the company operates, all other members are considered Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The new lease accounting to bring specific depth of industry experience to the Committee.
standard IFRS 16, to be introduced from 1 January 2019, was Their biographies can be found on pages 64 and 65. reviewed and it is clear that this will demand a lot of work from our financial management teams to prepare for this.
A further Role and responsibilities action for management and the Committee in 2017 will be to The primary role of the Committee is to assist the Board address how we make the presentation of the annual accounts infulfilling its oversight responsibilities with regard to under this new standard accessible to readers: while this has financialreporting, risk management and internal control the potential to change considerably how the accounts will look, procedures, and the work of its internal audit function and the underlying economic substance will be unchanged.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys website, The FRCs publications and views were reviewed by the www.
Committee over the year and this Annual Report and Accounts incorporates changes where applicable.
We also noted the likely The Committees main duties and responsibilities in advising changes for 2017 and will work on these during the course of this theBoard include the following: next year.
Reviewing the half year and annual financial statements Finally, we have, as laid out in the detail below and elsewhere, including accounting policies, key accounting and auditing addressed and challenged the key accounting and other issues, significant financial judgements and the financial judgements presented by management throughout the year control environment andin the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
As a Overseeing the process for selecting the external auditor, consequence, and as supported by the continued high standard assessing the continuing independence of the external of reporting by management, both I and the Committee believe auditor and approving the audit fee this allows us to conclude that we have discharged our duties Responsibility for ensuring that provision of non-audit and responsibilities effectively.
On behalf of the Committee I servicesdoes not impair the external auditors thank them for their consideration and application during the independenceor objectivity year.
I commend my review and this report to your attention.
Liaising with the external auditor on matters relating to the nature and scope of the audit and any issues or concerns Membership arising from the audit process The membership of the Committee during the year ended reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control 31December 2016 is set out below.
All members are and risk management systems, including fraud prevention independent Non-Executive Directors.
Attendance at and operation of the Companys whistleblowing policy meetingsheld during the year is shown on page 62. supervising the planning of activities under the internal audit programme and reviewing the major findings identified from Mike McKeon Chairman internal audit investigations Lee Sander Chris Muntwyler Meetings Dr Ashley Steel Three Committee meetings were held in 2016.
Outside of the meeting process, the Committee Chairman has regular contact The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee with the Executive Directors, other Committee members and and attends all meetings as does the Head of Group Internal theinternal and external auditors on a variety oftopics.
The Audit, who reports to the Committee on internal audit activities.
Committee itself meets with both the Head of GroupInternal In addition, the Board Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Audit and the external auditor at least once ayear without the Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and representatives Executive Directors being present.
from our external auditor along with other Group managers attend by invitation.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters consideredand decisions taken by the Committee.
Qualifications of Audit Committee members As a Chartered Accountant and former Group Finance Director of As Committee Chairman, I am available to meet investors Severn Trent plc 2005 to 2015, I am considered by the Board to toensure that shareholder interests are properly protected meet the requirements of the Code that at least one Committee inrelation to matters pertaining to the Committees remit.
member has recent and relevant financial experience.
To address the new Code provision C3.1 that the Audit Committee, as a Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 77 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee activity The key areas of Committee activity covered during the year, corporate governance guidance on the prohibition and through to the date of this report, included the planning, oftaxwork by a companys external auditor monitoring, reviewing and approval of the following: Risk management and internal control Financial reporting The Committee welcomed the new Group Risk Manager Quality and appropriateness of the half year and annual and with his support and the support of other senior Financial Statements including accounting policies, Group managers, reviewed the following matters: keyareas of financial judgement and associated reports Scope of the internal control and risk fromthe external auditor regarding its audit findings : managementprogramme afterreview we concluded they were acceptable and Adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups recommended their approval to the Board as a whole internalcontrol and risk management systems Assessment and management of significant risks for Twice-yearly detailed review of the Groups risk theGroup for the 2016 financial year register, including significant and emerging risks The information, underlying assumptions and stress Review of the Groups IT risk strategy and disaster testanalysis presented in support of the going concern recovery plan statement.
Full details of the process and outcomes Twice-yearly review of the Groups Cyber Security fromthe Committees work can be found on page 45 Committees programme to assess, prioritise and Consistency and appropriateness of the financial control monitor significant cyber security threats facing the environment we concluded this was acceptable Group and to monitor progress on plans for their throughout the year management and mitigation.
The Chairman of the The extent to which the Annual Report is fair, balanced Cyber Security Committee formally reports to the and understandable we concluded this was the case Audit Committee, both periodically and upon request Review of reports on fraud and whistleblowing Viability statement The Committee considered the Groups future viability and Internal audit considered the following points before recommending to The Head of Group Internal Audit engaged with the the Board the statement on viability included on page 45: Committee on the following matters: An assessment of the prospects of the Group, taking Scope of the internal audit plans for 2016 and 2017 into account the Groups current position, opportunities, The results of internal audit reviews and the progress strategic plans and risk appetite made against agreed management actions The future period over which it is appropriate for the The results of internal audit compliance testing offinancial Group to assess its viability controls Annual Fitness Checks within thesubsidiaries Identification of risks which have the potential to affect the Effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Groups strategic plans over the lookout period, including including feedback from divisionalManaging Directors those principal risks and uncertainties described in the Review of annual independence compliance statement Strategic Report and others which could impact the Boards assessment of the Groups viability Tax and treasury Quantification of the risks identified in the context of the As part of the Committees annual processes we Groups internal control framework and of potential addressed the following matters: mitigating actions, and the ability of the Group to Review of the Groups treasury policy, including withstand severe but plausible downside scenarios consideration of the key treasury risks facing the Group Any qualifications necessary to inform or support the foreign currency, interest rate, fuel price and counterparty readers understanding of the viability statement risk and the approach taken on their management Review of the annual update of the Groups tax affairs External audit Preliminary review of the Groups Tax Strategy required The Committee, where appropriate, engaged on the tobe published on the Companys website in 2017 following matters supported by the Deloitte external auditteam led for thefirst time by Stephen Griggs: Other matters considered included: Scope of the 2016 external audit plan and fees Review of corporate governance and legal and Consideration of the conclusions of the external regulatorycompliance: auditoron key risks and areas of judgement.
Review of the annual rolling agenda of items for Review of the effectiveness of the external audit consideration by the Committee to ensure that all processand assessment of the performance, mattersare covered in accordance with the terms  and recommendation to the ofreference and in the correct order: Board ofthere-appointment of the external auditor Review, update and recommendation to the Board External audit tendering policy forapproval of the Committees terms of reference: Level of fees paid to the external auditor for nonInternal review of the effectiveness of the Committee, auditservices concluding that it continued to operate effectively: and Revision to the policy on engaging the external auditor Review and approval of the Committees report for tosupply non-audit services, updated to reflect the inclusion in this Annual Report.
FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016 and other related 78 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial reporting and significant financial judgements for 2016 Goodwill impairment Taxation As it is required to do annually, the Committee considered The Committee considered the adequacy and sufficiency of whether the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets the disclosure of the Groups tax affairs in the Annual Report held by the Group should be impaired.
The judgements and the appropriateness of the accounting treatments largely related to the assumptions applied in calculating adopted to reflect the Groups tax charge, assets and thevalue in use of the Spanish Coach and Bus and the provisions in accordance with International Financial NorthAmerican School Bus businesses.
When testing for Reporting Standards.
Tax legislation across the markets impairment, the key considerations were theunderlying inwhich the Group operates is complex, and sometimes cashflows which were taken from the Board approved management and the relevant tax authorities differ in the Group three year plan, the discount rates and thefuture interpretation and application of tax law, which can lead to growth rates.
The Committee received a detailed report uncertainties in the estimation of provisions and recognition onthe outcome of the impairment reviews performed by ofdeferred tax balances.
On complex issues, management management and took into account the views of the external may seek external tax advice to ascertain whether provisions auditor emanating from their review.
The Committee should be made.
Where tax exposures can be quantified concluded that the goodwill and intangible assets of the andmeet the criteria for recognition, best estimates are Spanish Coach and Bus and the North American School made and provisions recognised.
These estimates are based Busbusinesses were not impaired and it approved the on the judgement of senior management in the light of the disclosures included in the 2016 Financial Statements.
facts and available information, and are reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed reports from the Insurance and other claims external auditor as to the appropriateness of the judgements With the support of the new Group Risk Director, who made by management.
The Committee is satisfied that the lookedat this area from a fresh perspective, the Committee treatment and disclosure of the Groups tax affairs in the considered the adequacy of the provisions associated Consolidated and Company Financial Statements are withinsurance and other claims risks particularly in North appropriate and sufficient.
The assessment focused on the advice received from a third party actuary in connection with the Groups Fuel hedge accounting exposure to auto and general liability and workers The Committee considered the accounting for the Groups compensation insurance claims.
Consideration was also financial derivatives and the associated tests for hedge given to the most likely outcome, and associated financial accounting.
The Committee received reports from effect, of other claims and exposures facing the Group.
The management and the external auditor on the fair value of Committee received a report from management on North theGroups financial derivatives and support for the tests American insurance and other claims and considered the forhedge effectiveness, particularly on the Groups fuel views of the external auditor.
The Committee concluded derivatives following continued changes in market value.
thatthe insurance and other claims provision is fairly stated.
Following consideration, the Committee is satisfied that the policies relating to financial derivatives are appropriate and Pensions that they are fairly stated.
The Committee considered the key assumptions underpinning the Groups defined benefit pension obligations.
Management Sale of Essex Thameside franchise use third party advisers to produce reports which were The Committee considered the accounting and disclosure consideredby the Committee, together with the views of requirements regarding the sale of the National Express theexternal auditoron the appropriateness of market and Essex Thameside c2c franchise to Trenitalia.
Following consideration, Committee considered managements approach and, theCommittee concluded that the pension assumptions havingtaken input from the external auditor, agreed that werereasonable and the net pension liability fairly stated.
Fair, balanced and understandable Risk management and internal controls At the request of the Board, the Committee undertook a formal The Board as a whole, including the Committee members, review of the Annual Report process in terms of preparation, considers the nature and extent of National Express risk quality of content, key themes and messages, consistency management framework and the risk profile that is acceptable ofinformation and presentation.
From the information and to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
As a result, assurance provided by management and the review conducted itisconsidered that the Board has fulfilled its obligations by the external auditor, the Committee was able to confirm to underthe Code.
the Board that the 2016 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary The Committee continues to be responsible for reviewing and information for shareholders to assess National Express monitoring the adequacy, design and effectiveness of the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
ongoing systems of internal control and risk management.
In thatregard, the Committee received reports from management and the Head of Group Internal Audit as well from the external auditor.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 79 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Further details of the internal controls are set out on page 75.
Anti-bribery policy A summary of the Companys risk management framework and A Group anti-bribery policy has been established and issued an overview of its principal risks are detailed onpages 34 to 37. toall Group companies and is also available on the Companys website, www.
The policy prohibits Internal audit any inducement which results in a personal gain or advantage The Committee has oversight responsibilities for the internal tothe recipient or any person or body associated with them, audit function which is led by the Head of Group Internal Audit.
and which is intended to influence them to take action which may not be solely in the interests of the Group or of the The purpose of the internal audit function is to provide an personor body employing them or which they represent.
independent, objective assessment of the effectiveness of Theprevention, detection and reporting of bribery is the internal controls, risk management and governance processes responsibility of all employees throughout the Group.
The function adds value by: Employees can report confidentially any suspicion of bribery via an externally facilitated whistleblower helpline.
During the year, contributing to the continuous improvement of internal arefresh and reminder programme on the Groups anti-bribery control and related processes, including identifying policy, comprising an e-training module, was implemented.
andsharing good practice across the Group: addressing the safeguarding of assets, compliance with Whistleblowing policy applicable laws and regulations and achievement of Whistleblowing policies are in place in each of the Groups managements operational objectives: businesses and are also available on the Companys website, promoting business processes that deliver effective internal www.
The Board supports the control at reasonable cost: and highest standards of corporate governance and ethical providing alignment with the Groups risk management process.
practices within all its operations and continues to review itspolicies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has endorsed An Internal Audit Charter sets out the responsibilities of both asetofprinciples which establish the framework for how theinternal audit function in terms of its focus, programme itsbusinesses operate.
Key to these is working in an open ofactivity, scope of investigations and reporting lines andhonest manner.
The Group is committed to the highest andmanagement in terms of it providing support standards of quality, honesty, openness and accountability.
and co-operation at all levels of the business.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under thepolicy by either contacting their line manager or telephoning During 2016, a carefully targeted internal audit plan was agreed a dedicated external helpline.
Any concerns raised are and undertaken on certain of the Groups operations, systems investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if and support functions with subsequent reports, including any, should be taken and confidential records are maintained.
management responses and recommended actions plans, considered by the Audit Committee in February, July and External audit November.
The Committee also reviewed and agreed a The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the modifiedand insightful approach by the Head of Group Companys Financial Statements.
The audit includes the review InternalAudittothe planning of their interventions in 2017. and testing of the systems of internal financial control and thedata contained in the Financial Statements to the extent Internal auditor effectiveness necessary to express an audit opinion on the truth and The Committee is required by the Code and its own terms fairnessof the Financial Statements.
ofreference to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
The Committee fulfils this External audit lead partner requirement principally through the review of the annual The current external audit engagement partner is Stephen Griggs, internalaudit programme and allocated internal audit resource, Head of Audit and Risk Advisory for Deloitte in the UK.
Stephen consideration of the major findings identified from completed took up his duties from 1 January 2016 following the mandatory internal audit work and feedback from executive management.
rotation of Nigel Mercer after his five years of engagement.
To supplement this approach, feedback ontheeffectiveness of the internal audit function was also soughtthrough post-audit External audit tendering policy questionnaires and feedback from management across all our The Committee confirms its compliance for the financial year divisions.
The questionnaire scored the internal audit team ending 31 December 2016 with the provisions of the Statutory against a set of criteria and captured anyspecific comments Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation orobservations that management wished to make.
Overall, for Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 2016 the Committee concluded that the Groups internal audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Company last put function continued to be effective in the role it undertakes, with itsexternal audit contract out to tender in 2011, following which areas scoring relatively highly being around audit planning and Deloitte LLP replaced Ernst & Young LLP and was appointed the completion of audit fieldwork.
Areas identified for further asthe Groups auditor.
The Committee regularly considers the focus were timeliness ofreporting, in respect of both issue marketplace, benchmarking the current level of audit services that ofdraft reports and agreement of appropriate management the Company receives along with the fees it pays and the value responses.
Internal audit will also be looking to add more value being delivered.
The Committee recognises that audit tenders through increased focus on sharing good practices across the andtransitions to new auditors require significant resource.
current regulations, the Company will be required to retender theaudit no later than in respect of the year ending 31 December 80 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2021.
The Committee will assess the quality of the external audit Non-audit services requiring specific Committee approval are annually and, on the basis that the quality of service remains high those which could threaten the overriding principles of integrity, and the audit fee represents good value to shareholders, will tender independence and objectivity because of their size and nature, the audit no later than for the year ending 31 December 2021. or because of the nature of their terms and conditions such as contingent fee arrangements.
In the event that the required Assessment of the effectiveness and independence conditions are met, as detailed in the policy, the Committee ofthe external auditor and external audit process willconsider carefully whether it is in the Groups interest to The Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the purchase the services from the external auditor and whether independence and effectiveness of the external auditor.
As part relevant safeguards put into place by the auditor are likely to be of its determination the Audit Committee reviewed the scope, effective in practice.
The approval of the Committee is sought, materiality threshold and fees for the external audit plan and prior to the following types of assignment being undertaken: received and considered the external auditors assessment of the significant risks affecting the Group as detailed above.
The Due diligence work on possible acquisitions Committee also considered a report by the external auditor Assistance with reviewing IT systems, except as part of the onthe firms independence, which is required in order to carry external audit out its professional duties and responsibilities as auditors.
Valuation services, including valuations performed in connection with actuarial services or litigations support services Additionally, the effectiveness of the 2016 external audit process was formally assessed by the Committee to meet the expectations In addition to the approvals required in the policy and in set out in provision C3.2 of the Code.
This was carried out through accordance with the Ethical Standards, with effect from the the use of a survey and analysis approach taking into account Groups audit for the year ended 31 December 2020, a cap of theviews and opinions of the Group Finance team and divisional non-audit services will be set at 70% of the average of the audit Finance Directors.
In so doing, the Committees review and fees for the preceding three-year period.
The Committee will qualitative assessment focused on feedback and insights, process monitor all non-audit fees and ensure that in any given year and communication, handling of issues and quality of the team.
non-audit services are less than 70% of the audit fee for that year.
The Committee is satisfied that the external audit process continues tobe effective and provides an appropriate independent Whilst the Revised Ethical Standard permits certain tax-related challenge to the Groups senior management.
services, it is the view of the Group and the Committee that it is in the Groups best interest that these services should not be Having completed its assessment of both the external audit performed by the external auditor and therefore these services process and the external auditor for the financial period are effectively on the prohibited list.
underreview, the Committee is satisfied that the auditor hasperformed satisfactorily in 2016, that the audit process The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year implemented was effective and that the external auditor ended31 December 2016 appears in note 6 to the remainsindependent.
Based on Deloittes work during the consolidatedaccounts.
year, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with its performance and we were happy to recommend to the Board FRCs Corporate Reporting Review that Deloitte LLP be put forward to for re-appointment at the It is confirmed that the Companys Annual Report has not been 2017 AGM.
reviewed by the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team.
Non-audit services Committee performance evaluation During the year, taking into account the Financial Reporting As part of the 2016 internal Board performance evaluation as Councils Revised Ethical Standard 2016, Guidance on Audit described earlier in this governance report on page 71, the Committees and the revised 2016 UK Corporate Governance Committee assessed its own effectiveness.
Committee members Code, the Committee approved a revised policy on the provision agreed that, overall, the Committees performance had been of non-audit services by its external auditor for the following effective during the year.
An area for focus for the 2017 financial types of service: year would be to extend each Committee meeting by up to 30minutes to allow for deeper discussion on certain topics.
Services that are considered to have general pre-approval by the Audit Committee, by virtue of the approval of the policy Services that require specific pre-approval, on a case by case basis, before any work can commence Services that are prohibited Mike McKeon The services that have general pre-approval are assistance with Audit Committee Chair 23 February 2017 the preparation of statutory accounts during the audit process, audit-related services, including reports that are required by law or regulation to be prepared by the external auditor, reviews ofinterim financial reports, regulatory returns and reports to support government grants, work on financial information or controls that are authorised by those charged with governance and where the work is integrated with the external audit and carried out under the same terms and conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 81
