Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board of Directors 1.
Sir John Armitt CBE 71 Relevant skills and experience: 4.
Dean Finch 50 Chairman Elliot Lee Sander is the former Chief Executive Group Chief Executive Date appointed to Board: January 2013 Officer of the Metropolitan Transportation Date appointed to Board: February 2010 andas Chairman on 1 February 2013 Authority of New York and the former Tenure on Board: 6 years, 11 months Tenure on Board: 4 years Commissioner of the New York City Department Independent: No Independent: Independent upon appointment of Transportation.
He is the Chairman Emeritus of Committee membership: None Committee memberships: Nomination the Regional Plan Association, an NGO that has Relevant skills and experience: Chairman, Safety & Environment played a guiding role in the planning of the New Prior to joining National Express, Dean Finch Relevant skills and experience: York Metropolitan area.
Lee was Group Chief wasGroup Chief Executive of Tube Lines from Sir John Armitt is currently Deputy Chairman of Executive for Global Transportation at AECOM, May 2009.
Before that he worked for over ten Berkeley Group Holdings PLC, Chairman of the aglobal architecture and engineering firm.
He years in senior roles within FirstGroup PLC.
He City & Guilds Group and Deputy Chairman of the served as President of The HAKS Group Inc and joined FirstGroup in 1999 having qualified as a National Infrastructure Commission.
Grace Company, which also specialised Chartered Accountant with KPMG, where he also an independent Non-Executive Director of inarchitecture, engineering, and construction in worked for 12 years specialising in Corporate Expo 2020.
He was President of the Institution of the public and private sectors.
In addition, Lee Transaction Support Services, including working Civil Engineers from2015 to 2016 and a member founded the Rudin Center for Transportation for the Office of Passenger Rail Franchising on of the Board ofTransport for London from 2012 Policy and Management at New York University.
the privatisation of train operating companies.
SirJohn was Chairman of the Olympic Lee is also currently Vice Chairman of the Greater At FirstGroup, he was Managing Director of Delivery Authority from 2007 to 2014 and Jamaica Development Corporation and Senior theRail Division from 2000 to 2004 and then Chairman of theEngineering and Physical External Adviser to McKinsey & Company.
wasappointed to the main board as Group Science Research Council from 2007 to 2012.
Commercial Director in 2004, before being made 3.
Jorge Cosmen 48 From 2001 to 2007 he was Chief Executive of Group Finance Director.
With the completion of the Deputy Chairman Network Rail and its predecessor, Railtrack.
In Laidlaw acquisition, he became Chief Operating Date appointed to Board: December 2005 1997 he was appointed as Chief Executive of Officer in North America before returning to the UK Tenure on Board: 11 years Costain Group PLC, a position he held until 2001. as Group Chief Operating Officer.
Dean currently Independent: No Before this, Sir John was Chief Executive of has no external directorships, having relinquished Committee membership: Nomination, Union Railways, the company responsible for the his role as Non-Executive Director of the Royal Safety & Environment development of thehigh speed Channel Tunnel Free London NHS Foundation Trust in May 2016.
Relevant skills and experience: Rail Link.
This followed a 27-year career at John Jorge Cosmen was appointed to the Board at the Laing PLC.
Matthew Ashley 43 time of the ALSA transaction.
He was appointed Group Finance Director Sir John was awarded the CBE in 1996 for his Deputy Company Chairman in October 2008.
Date appointed to Board: January 2015 contribution to the rail industry and received a Hewas Corporate Manager for the ALSA Group Tenure on Board: 2 years knighthood in 2012 for services to engineering from 1995, becoming Chairman in 1999.
Between 1986 and 1995, he worked in sales, Committee membership: None distribution and banking.
Lee Sander 60 Relevant skills and experience: Administration graduate and has an International Senior Independent Director Matt Ashley joined National Express as Group MBA from the Instituto fide Empresa in Madrid.
Date appointed to Board: June 2011 Financial Controller in 2010 from Deloitte where Heis a Non-Executive Director of Bankia, as well Tenure on Board: 5 years, 6 months he was a Director specialising in transport as of other private companies.
Independent: Yes andinfrastructure and the auditing of listed Committee memberships: Audit, companies, having previously qualified as a Remuneration, Nomination and Chartered Accountant in 1998.
He was then Safety&Environment promoted to the role of Finance Director of theUK Bus division in 2013 before becoming interimGroup Finance Director in October 2014.
Matt has no external directorships.
64 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 6.
Chris Muntwyler 64 Relevant skills and experience: Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Matthew Crummack is currently Chief Executive Date appointed to Board: July 2015 Date appointed to Board: May 2011 Officer of Gocompare.
com Group plc, a financial Tenure on Board: 1 year, 5 months Tenure on Board: 5 years, 7 months services price comparison website which is listed Independent: Yes Independent: Yes on the London Stock Exchange.
Previously, Committee membership: Audit Chairman, Committee membership: Audit, Matthew served as CEO of lastminute.
com, the Safety & Environment Nomination, Safety & Environment Chair online travel and leisure retailer, from 2011 until Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: March 2015 when the business was acquired by Mike McKeon was Group Finance Director of Chris Muntwyler is President and CEO of the Swiss Bravofly Rumbo Group subsequently renamed Severn Trent plc from 2005 until his retirement Management Consulting company Conlogic Ltd. lastminute.
He served as Deputy from the board in 2015.
Prior to that, between He is also Non-Executive Director of Panalpina CEO and Chief Integration Officer until December 2000 and 2005, he was Group Finance World Transport Holding Ltd Switzerland and 2015, following which he served as a member of Directorof Novar plc.
He has held various theAustrian Post Ltd Austria.
During his 27 years its Strategic Advisory Committee.
seniorroles, both in the UK and internationally, at Swissair he held top executive positions in In addition, Matthew was formerly a Senior Vice at Rolls-Royce plc, CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Switzerland, Sweden and North America.
In 1999 President of Lodging at Expedia in Europe and Atochem and .
he joined DHL Express serving as Managing the US, has previously worked for Nestl UK, Until31January 2017, Mikewas also Senior Director of Switzerland, Germany and Central andspent eight years at Procter & Gamble in Independent Directorand Chairman of the Audit Europe and from 2005 to 2008 as CEO of DHL avariety of roles.
He is also a Director of his Committee at investment trust, The Merchants Express UK Ltd based in London.
Jane Kingston 59 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date appointed to Board: June 2011 Date appointed to Board: January 2016 Date appointed to the Board: February 2014 Tenure on Board: 5 years, 6 months Tenure on Board: 1 year Tenure on Board: 2 years, 11 months Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Committee membership: Nomination, Committee memberships: Audit, Committee membership: Remuneration Safety & Environment Safety & Environment Chair, Nomination, Safety & Environment Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Relevant skills and experience: Joaqun Ayuso is Board Vice Chairman for Dr Ashley Steel is a former Vice Chairman at Jane Kingston served as Group Human Ferrovial, the 10 billion Spanish transport KPMG and was Global Chair for its transport, Resources Director for Compass Group PLC from infrastructure and services group that employs leisure and logistics practice until her retirement 2006 until her retirement in 2016.
Prior to this, she over 100,000 people worldwide.
He has been from the firm in September 2014.
Ashley has served as Group Human Resources Director for withFerrovial since 1981 and was appointed significant international experience and has BPB PLC from 2002 until its acquisition by Saint CEOin 2002, and held that position until October advised numerous FTSE Fortune 500 boards.
During this period, Ferrovial expanded Her other sector experience includes professional HRhas spanned a variety of sectors, including internationally with business interests in the UK, services, technology, media, business services engineering and building materials with Enodis US, Canada, Latin America and Europe.
PLC and Blue Circle PLC now Lafarge SA and also currently a Non-Executive Director of Bankia, Ashley is currently a Non-Executive Director of garment and textiles with Coats Viyella PLC, as Chairman of the Board of Autopista del Sol SA, the Civil Aviation Authority and previously served well as the British car industry.
She has significant Non-Executive Director of Hispania Activos on the International Business Advisory Board international experience, having had responsibility Inmobiliarios SA and Senior Advisor to AT atBritish Airways.
She is also an independent for the people agenda in most parts of the world Kearney in Spain and Portugal.
Non-Executive Director to global law firm, Ince & at some point during her career.
Matthew Crummack 46 Co. She is also a founding member on the Global Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Non-Executive Director Advisory Board for Out Leadership, a New YorkRemuneration Committee, of Spirax-Sarco Date appointed to Board: May 2015 based business helping chairmen and CEOs Engineering plc.
Tenure on Board: 1 year, 7 months offinance and law firms become LGBT aware.
Independent: Yes Ashley has a PhD in Management from Henley Committee memberships: Remuneration, Business School.
Safety & Environment Safety & Committee membership Audit Nomination Remuneration Environment Director Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Member Sir John Armitt CBE Jorge Cosmen Lee Sander Joaqun Ayuso Matthew Crummack Jane Kingston Mike McKeon Dean Finch and Matthew Ashley, as Executive Directors, may attend Board Committee Chris Muntwyler meetings at the invitation of the respective Dr Ashley Steel Committee Chairman.
No Director attends any Dean Finch discussion or participates in any decision concerning their own remuneration.
Matthew Ashley Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 65
