Accountability Internal control statement Risk management reporting process Each division and The Boards responsibilities operating company evaluates its internal control environment The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of and key risks, and the results are reviewed at management level internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board and passed to the Audit Committee before being presented to maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, the Board.
This process is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure financial, operational and compliance issues and has put in the validity and relevance of the key risks included in reports.
place an organisational structure with formally defined lines The review covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk ofresponsibility, delegated authorities and clear operating management controls.
These procedures are mandated and processes.
The systems that the Board has established are designed to manage the risk in order to ensure that the designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment operations achieve their business objectives.
andthe assets of the Group, and are described as follows: Internal audit The internal control system is independently Key elements of the control framework monitored and supported by a Group internal audit function.
Financial reporting process Management and specialists The Group internal audit function reports to management and within the Finance Department are responsible for ensuring the the Audit Committee on the Groups financial and operational appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes to controls, and monitors and reviews the extent to which its ensure that all information is relevant, reliable and in accordance recommendations have been implemented.
with the applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the Board-level reporting on internal control consolidation and financial statements is completed by During the year the Audit Committee reviews regular reports management to ensure that the financial position and results of from the Group internal audit function, the external auditor the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information andGroup Executive management on matters relating to published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Audit internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
Committee and Disclosure Committee, where appropriate.
TheAudit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting affairs Performance management The performance of each division and and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal reports on howspecific risks that are assessed as material to monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the relevant the Group are being managed.
Executive Directors at monthly divisional Executive meetings.
Review of internal control effectiveness Annual fitness check process Group internal audit undertakes The system of internal control and risk management, described an annual review at each operating company to assess the above, has been in place for the year under review and up to the integrity of the Balance Sheet and to check the effective date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a operation of key financial reporting and information systems system is designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risks controls.
The results of the reviews are presented to both inherent in achieving the Groups business objectives, and can divisional and Group finance with any required actions therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance agreedwith the relevant divisional Finance Director.
against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this system has been regularly reviewed by the Directors in line with Strategic and financial planning An annual budgeting and the Guidance on Audit Committees, published by the Financial strategic planning process has been established whereby Reporting Council in April 2016.
Where significant control eachdivision and constituent operating company assesses failings or weaknesses have been identified, appropriate itscompetitive position and goals, taking account of the corrective action has been taken.
This strategy is translated into a financial plan with clear milestones and performance indicators.
Going concern and longer-term viability The Directors going concern and longer-term viability Capital investment A clear process is in place for the approval statements, as required to be made under the Code for the of capital expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the yearended 31 December 2016, are set out on page 45 of the benefits of the proposed investment and any associated key Group Finance Directors review.
Material capital expenditure requires Board approval.
Health and safety Health and safety standards and benchmarks have been established in all of our businesses andthe performance of operating companies in meeting thesestandards is closely monitored.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 75
