Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee Report Dear fellow Shareholder Sir John Armitt CBE I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report for Chairman 2016.
This report provides a summary of the Committees activities during the year.
I will be available to answer any questions about the Committee and its activities at the AGM on10 May 2017.
Membership The membership of the Committee during the year ended 31December 2016 is set out below.
Three meetings were How the Nomination Committee spent heldduring the year with attendance by members shown its time in 2016 onpage 62.
Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman Re-election of Directors 11% Lee Sander New Board appointments 33% Jorge Cosmen Succession planning 23% Joaqun Ayuso Board diversity 11% Chris Muntyler Committee governance 22% Jane Kingston appointed 26 July 2016 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, any other Director, the Group Human Resources Director and external advisers may attend meetings of the Committee.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
Role and responsibilities The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Board is appropriately structured and has in place the correct balance of individuals to discharge its duties effectively, and to lead the process by which new Board members are appointed.
Italso advises the Board on succession planning for Directors.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annuallyandare available on the Companys website, www.
The Committees main duties and responsibilities in advising theBoard are summarised below: Responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the approvalof the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise Giving full consideration to succession planning, and keepingunder review the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and Non-Executive Reviewing the time required from and spent by a Non-Executive Director in fulfilling his or her duties Preparing a description ofthe role and requirements for anyparticular appointment based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole 72 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Activities during 2016 Board experience A summary of the Committees principal activities in 2016 is 91% Finance: 1 female, 9 male asfollows: 100% Operational: 2 female, 9 male Review of Board Composition At its February meeting, the Committee undertook a review of 100% International: 2 female, 9 male the composition of the Board and its Committees to ensure continued effectiveness.
The Committee evaluated the balance 82% Transport: 1 female, 8 male of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and independence of Directors to ensure that, as the Group continues to evolve, the 91% Public board: 1 female, 9 male Board is able to deliver the Groups strategy whilst fulfilling its duties to shareholders and to the wider stakeholder community.
82% Government regulatory: 1 female, 8 male Members of the Board have many years of experience 73% Remuneration: 1 female, 7 male gainedthrough their senior management roles within various companies across the world.
The table opposite indicates 9% Digital marketing: 1 male certain of the areas of particular expertise of Board members.
Directors biographies can be found on pages 64 and 65.
18% Information technology: 2 male Advisers During the year, the Committee worked with search consultants, Odgers Berndtson Odgers, to identify candidates for the role ofGroup Finance Director to replace Matthew Ashley, who will Board composition be moving to become President and Chief Executive Officer of 18% Executive: 2 male our North America division from September.
Odgers does not have any other connections with the Company.
82% Non-Executive: 2 female, 7 male 73% Male: 8 male Board tenure 18% Female: 2 female 0-2 years 1 female, 2 male 2-4 years 1 female, 1 male 4-6 years 4 male 6-9 years 1 male 9 years 1 male Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 73 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Tenure and independence Non-Executive Director induction The independence of Non-Executive Directors and the During 2016, the Chairman oversaw Dr Ashley Steels induction.
re-election of Directors and their suitability to continue in office This took to the form of a full and tailored induction programme were reviewed at the Committees February meeting.
With the which included site visits, meetings with senior management exception of Jorge Cosmen and Sir John Armitt, Chairman, who and briefings from the Company Secretary and the Companys was independent upon appointment, all other Non-Executive advisers.
The Committee also reviewed the continued education Directors are considered to be independent.
Jorge Cosmen is and development process for existing Non-Executive Directors.
not considered to be independent due to his close links with the Various informative and valuable site visits were undertaken ALSA business and the significant interests in the shares of the across our businesses by the Senior Independent Director Company, held through European Express Enterprises Ltd. andChairs of the Safety & Environment, Audit and Despite his non-independence, the Board feels that it benefits Remuneration Committees.
greatly from his extensive local market knowledge and experience.
When assessing independence, the Committee Diversity was mindful of the Code requirement that any term beyond The Board takes the view that an increasing diversity at Board sixyears for a Non-Executive Director should be subject to level is acknowledged as an essential element in maintaining particularly rigorous review.
As at 31 December 2016, no acompetitive advantage.
A truly diverse Board will include independent Non-Executive Director had reached his or her andmake good use of differences in the skills, regional and six-year term.
Lee Sander, Chris Muntwyler and Joaqun Ayuso industry knowledge experience, background, race, gender, will each reach their six-year term during 2017 and their independence and other qualities of Directors.
These respective independence will be subject to review during the differences will be considered in determining the optimum course of the year.
In addition to the Code requirement, the composition of the Board and will continue to be balanced Committee also considered any circumstances and disclosable appropriately.
All Board appointments are made on merit, in the relationships and potential conflicts that would influence context of the skills and experience that the Board as a whole Non-Executive Directors judgement and affect their requires in order to maintain and enhance its effectiveness.
The Committee is satisfied that, throughout theyear, other than as disclosed in respect of Jorge Cosmen, Female representation on the Board is currently 18% and we are Non-Executive Directors remained independent.
mindful of the recommendations of the Women on Board Davies Review, published in October 2015 and the voluntary target of Succession planning 33% for female Board representation to be achieved over the The Board as a whole, through the leadership of the Nomination nextfive years.
The Board will take every opportunity, when Committee, recognises its role in ensuring that a strong pipeline available, to increase the gender diversity of our Board further.
of future senior management has been identified from which future Board appointments can be made.
Equally important, Committee evaluation talent needs to be recognised and nurtured at executive and As part of the 2016 internal Board performance evaluation, management levels.
Resulting from the 2016 Board strategy itwas confirmed that the Committee was overall effective review, talent assessment, development and succession andefficient in its operation and leadership.
Areas identified processes across the Group have been enhanced to give better forimprovement concerned the continued focus to keep cross divisional view and support of high potential talent.
The underreview the Companys leadership needs, giving full Committee, as part of its more proactive role and revised consideration to succession planning for Directors and senior enhanced duties which were determined this year at its July executives.
Details of the Board and Committee performance meeting, continued to provide leadership and oversight in this evaluation process are provided within the main Corporate key area during the year.
Governance Report on pages 70 and 71.
Appointment of new Group Finance Director The Committee oversaw the process for the search for a new Group Finance Director to replace Matthew Ashley, who will betaking up the role of President and Chief Executive Officer Sir John Armitt CBE forNational Express North America from September 2017.
TheCompany engaged Odgers, which is a signatory to the Chairman 23 February 2017 Executive Search Voluntary Code of Conduct, to assist the Committee in the search.
From the long list of potential candidates produced by Odgers, a shortlist was identified to meet face to face with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Audit Committee Chairman and certain other Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee subsequently discussed the results ofthese interviews and recommended to the Board that Chris Davies be appointed as Group Finance Director.
Following this recommendation, the Board appointed Chris as Group Finance Director and he will take up this role on 10 May 2017.
74 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
