Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Effectiveness Composition of the Board We seek to build an effective and complementary Board which comprises the correct balance of individuals whose capabilities are appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic positioning of our business.
The Board consists of an appropriate balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who collectively bring a strong and in-depth mix of business skills and experience and considerable knowledge to assist with Board decisions.
The process for Board appointments is led by the Nomination Committee and is described on page 72.
A list of the individual Directors, their biographies and Committee memberships as at the date of this report are set out on pages 64 and 65.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately and the division of responsibilities between these roles is clearly established as shown below.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for running the business of the Group and implementation of the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
Chairmans Chairing and managing the business of the Board Together with the Group Chief Executive, leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business and responsibilities ensuring its effective implementation by the executive management team Ensuring effective dialogue with investors concerning mutual understanding of objectives In conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking responsibility for the composition and replenishment of the Board Periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices and performance Ensuring there is an effective contribution from the Non-Executive Directors and a constructive relationship between Executive and Non-Executive Directors The Chairmans other significant commitments are detailed in his biography on page 64.
Communicating a shared purpose and the culture, vision and values of the Group Group Chief The development and implementation of management strategy Executives The day-to-day management of the Group responsibilities Managing the executive management team Fostering relationships with key stakeholders Leading the Group Executive Committee In conjunction with the Group Finance Director, communicating the Groups financial performance to investors and analysts Liaising with the Chairman to ensure effective dialogue with investors and stakeholders Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors collectively represent a robust element of the Board and each brings with them his or her own expertise gained in a variety of business sectors.
They constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management and help develop proposals on strategy as well as ensuring high standards of financial probity and corporate governance.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at each AGM, on the Companys website andat its registered office during normal business hours.
The Non-Executive Directors disclose to the Board their other significant commitments.
The procedure adopted by the Company in relation to Directors conflicts of interest is detailed on page 115.
Senior Independent Director Lee Sander is currently the Senior Independent Director.
As well as being available to shareholders whose concerns have not been resolved through normal channels or when such channels would be inappropriate, the Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors, where necessary.
Executive Directors The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups busineses, implementation of its strategy, policies and budgets and its financial performance.
Executive management meetings comprise the Executive Directors and senior management from the divisions and are held regularly to discuss current issues.
The Group Finance Director supports the Group Chief Executive in developing and implementing strategy in relation to the financial and operational performance of the Group.
66 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Company Secretary The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Joy Baldry, who is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in the delivery of the corporate governance framework and is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters, including the planning ofagendas for the annual cycle of Board and Committee meetings so that all key issues are considered at the appropriate times.
Everyeffort is made to ensure that information reported to the Board is of high quality in terms of accuracy, quality, appropriateness, comprehensiveness and currency.
Directors are able to seek clarification or amplification from management where necessary.
TheCompany Secretary also facilitates the induction process and assists with professional development for Directors as required.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional advice where considered necessary.
Independence Induction of new Directors The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to The Chairman ensures that new Directors receive a tailored and beindependent other than Jorge Cosmen.
Sir John Armitt comprehensive induction programme to introduce them.
On wasconsidered to be independent prior to his appointment appointment, Directors are offered training as appropriate and asChairman.
are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant Jorge Cosmen is not considered to be independent by the to their role.
Boarddue to his close links with the ALSA business and significant interests in the shares of the Company which are held through An induction process is in place for new Directors, the aim of European Express Enterprises Ltd.
Despite his non-independence, which is to: the Board feels that it benefits greatly from Jorge Cosmens extensive local market knowledge and experience.
build an understanding of the nature of the Group, its businesses and the markets in which it operates: Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the establish a link with the Groups employees: and Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service build an understanding of the Groups main relationships isnon-pensionable.
Time commitment The following information is provided as part of the induction It is in the Boards interest to ensure that all Directors have and ongoing training and development of Board Directors.
sufficient time to commit to their responsibilities as Directors.
The Chairman monitors the extent of Directors other interests On appointment toensure that the effectiveness of the individual and the Board Governance information in relation to the Group, including is not being compromised.
the terms of reference of the Board and its Committees Guidance for Directors of British public companies generally, In respect of the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to including under the law, the Code and the rules of the UK the Board, candidates are made aware of the time commitment Listing Authority expected of them which is reflected in their individual letters of Board minutes covering the previous year appointment with the Company.
The Board considers that all Information on key Group policies the Directors are currently able to devote sufficient time and attention to their duties and responsibilities to the Company.
Following appointment Business briefing meetings with the Chairman, the Group As part of their continuing development, and recognising the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director significant benefits to be derived to both the Company and the Meeting with the Company Secretary to discuss the Group individual, Executive Directors are permitted to accept one structure, the Companys constitution and Board procedures external non-executive directorship with a non-competing and terms of reference of the Board and its Committees company provided they first obtain Board approval.
Until 31May Meetings with senior management in the business divisions 2016, Dean Finch held an external directorship of theRoyal Free Meeting with the Director of Safety for an overview of the London NHS Foundation Trust.
Matthew Ashley doesnot Groups health and safety policy and safety record currently hold any external directorships.
Meeting with the Groups auditor and remuneration consultants Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 67 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Ashley Steels induction process In January 2016, Dr Ashley Steel joined our Board as anindependent Non-Executive Director, bringing with herknowledge across a range of sectors, particularly in transport.
Ashleys induction programme included visits to a number of our national offices and operational locations, including Bahrain, North America and Morocco.
Here are her first-hand impressions: Being able to see the operations in action really brings home how Driving Out Harm is far more than just words.
Seeing our extensive safety checks being carried out day in, day out, brought home how important we take the safety of the people we carry.
In Bahrain, I was able to witness first-hand what it means to take an existing city bus network and, in a short timeframe, reinvent it from the bottom up.
This included recruiting and training over 700 new drivers from abroad.
Iwas deeply impressed with what the National Express international team had achieved.
The operation stands out as a model for other cities and countries to mirror.
Non-Executive Director engagement As part of our annual Board calendar planning process, atleast two Board meetings per year are held at locations where we have a local presence.
In 2016, Board meetings were held in Cologne, Germany and Toronto, Canada.
Such meetings provide an important opportunity for the Board to visit our operations first-hand and to engage both formally and informallywith local management and front-line staff.
From Cologne, the Non-Executive Directors undertook a returntrip to Wuppertal on the RB48 regional stopping service forming part of theRhine-Mnster Express line which our German Rail division launched in December 2015.
The Directors were impressed with the quality and safety features of our newNational Express liveried trains.
They also took the opportunity to engage directly with the train staff to understandlocal operational issues and challenges.
Non-Executive Directors Lee Sander and Matthew Crummack in conversation with staff on the RB48 68 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our Non-Executive Directors take a trip on the RB48 regional stopping Independent Non-Executive Director Mike McKeon addresses service from Cologne station graduate members of the NX Network Similarly, in Toronto, where we have both a School Bus operation serving schools in the Greater Toronto Area and aTransit business, the Board took the opportunity to visit severalCustomer Service Centres where Directors spent timetalking with drivers, maintenance technicians and local management to gain a flavour of their local business.
Also during the year, several of our Non-Executive Directors took individual trips to our ALSA, UK Bus and Bahrain Bus businesses in order to deepen their knowledge of the Groups operations.
Attendance by Non-Executive Directors at our Group Values Awards held in London each year and at our NX Network eventsfor our graduate intake is also much appreciated by our employees and provides an excellent opportunity for a mutual exchange of views.
In particular, for our pool of high potential talent, such engagement can be a source of inspiration.
Colleagues from management also regularly attend and presentatBoard meetings, enabling Non-Executive Directors tomeet senior management across the businesses and to Lee Sander, Senior Independent Director, visits a Stock Customer Service Centre which serves the Greater Toronto Area understand the challenges they face.
Overall, getting out and about in the business and engaging with colleagues outside the confines of the Board roomhas given our Non-Executive Directors a useful culturalinsight into how our business operates which, inturn, informs effective Board discussions.
Being able to see the operations inaction really brings home how DrivingOut Harm is far more thanjust words.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 69 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Boards, Committees, and Chairmans performance evaluations An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually in accordance with the following cycle: Board and Committee review cycle Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 External Internal Internal Evaluation by independent Evaluation focused on Year 1 issues Progress review generally consultants raised and any specific new issues questionnaire based with follow-up arising questionnaire based interviews with the Chairman Progress against 2015 internal board evaluation recommendations Area for focus during 2016 Progress made Gender diversity Female representation on the Board currently stands at 18% following the appointment ofDr Ashley Steel as an additional Non-Executive Director in January 2016.
The Board will take every opportunity, when available, to increase the gender diversity of the Board further.
Executive pipeline, As part of the Groups Vision, a talent strategy with a step plan and timetable for deliverables succession planning is in place to meet future business demands and increase internationalisation.
The talent and talent assessment, development and succession planning processes already in place in each division have been enhanced to give better cross divisional view and support development ofhigh potentials.
More external viewpoints Further opportunities have been created for external presentations to be made to to be heard theBoard on relevant topics.
This will remain an area of focus going into 2017.
Educational development Non-Executive Directors continue to be provided with the opportunity to visit our opportunities for Directors operations across the Group.
Greater focus on key areas of relevant education to be provided anddevelopment for Directors will continue to be addressed during 2017.
70 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2016 internal Board evaluation This year was the third in the Groups three-year performance evaluation cycle.
The overall aim was to focus on those areas identified for development resulting from last years internal Board evaluation through assessing current performance, progress made and opportunities for improvement.
These were captured by completion of surveys for the Board and each Committee comprising anumber of open questions on the workings and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The outcome of the internal evaluation was fed back to the Board at its meeting in November and a series of actions agreed.
Lee Sander, the Senior IndependentDirector, led the evaluation of the Chairman with participation by both Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Board concluded that, overall, the outcome of the 2016 internal Board evaluation was very positive in respect of the Boards, Committees and Chairmans performance.
It was agreed that the workings of the Board and its Committees remained effective andthey continued to operate to a high level.
The key strengths and the principal areas identified for further development and focus in 2017 are set out below.
The outcomes arising from this years internal evaluation process will be further reported in next years Annual Report.
The review of the performance of the Chairman, led by the Senior Independent Director, concluded that the Chairman continued tooperate to a high level, having a good understanding of the varying interests of shareholders and representing a strong and credible external face for the Company.
Key strengths Principal areas of focus for 2017 It was felt that, overall, the Board is well balanced and works well More external viewpoints to be heard.
There is a broad range of experience and diversity across different geographies and in key business priority areas such as transport and digital therefore, good breadth as well as depth.
Directors were in agreement that Board meetings are conducted More educational development opportunities for Directors inan open manner that invites active and direct participation.
Overall, there was agreement that the quality of the materials Audit Committee meetings to be extended by 30 minutes provided by management to Board meetings is very good.
Once to allow forgreater in-depth discussion on certain topics.
again, the strategy papers were singled out as being excellent.
There is good leadership on the Safety & Environment, Audit The Nomination Committee to continue to keep under andRemuneration Committees.
reviewthe leadership needs of the Company, giving fullconsideration to succession planning for Directors andother senior Executives.
There is very good engagement by the Senior Independent Continued focus on cyber security issues and initiatives Director, who takes his responsibilities seriously and engages appropriately and frequently.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and the Code, all Directors of the Company will offer themselves for eitherelection or re-election at this years AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject to re-election.
Non-Executive Directors will only be put forward for re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 71
