FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Indemnities To the extent permitted by the Law, the Companys Articles provide an indemnity for the Directors against any liability except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own breach of trust, breach of duty or negligence.
Each Director has an Instrument of Indemnity with the Company.
During the year, the Company has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
Relationship with the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator The Board has delegated various duties to external parties including the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services including the safeguarding of assets, the registration services and the day-to-day company secretarial, administration and accounting services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the Investment Manager, Administrator, Sub-Administrator and Company Secretary along with ad hoc reports and information supplied to the Board as required.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and SubAdministrator also ensure that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and is reviewed annually, and a procedure adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company within certain parameters.
The Directors have access to the advice and service of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board, the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Shareholder Engagement The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with shareholders is important for the long-term prospects of the Company.
It has, since admission, sought engagement with shareholders.
Where appropriate the Chairman, and other Directors are available for discussion about governance and strategy with shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board receives feedback on the views of shareholders from its Corporate Brokers and the Investment Manager, and shareholders are welcome to contact the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or any other Director at any time via the Company Secretary.
During the year the Company continued quarterly investor update calls, which can be accessed via conference call or WebEx, details are published via an RIS.
The update calls are also made available on the Companys website at www.
The Board also welcomes the opportunity to meet with investors on a one-to-one basis, upon request.
The Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee will consult with shareholders should it be proposed to increase the current aggregate limit of annual Directors fees as set out in the Companys Articles of Incorporation.
