AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Membership: Richard Battey - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Sandra Platts Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director The Board believes it is appropriate for the Company Chairman to be a member of the Audit and Risk Committee as he is an independent non-executive Director.
Key Objectives The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Companys financial reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of the external auditor, and the management of the Companys systems of internal financial and operating controls and business risks.
Responsibilities Reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Financial Statements and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: Reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies and practices: Advising the Board on whether the Audit and Risk Committee believes the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor: Considering the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditor arising from any non-audit services to be provided by the auditor: Analysis of key procedures adopted by the Company's service providers: Reporting to the Board on the effectivenss of the Companys risk management framework: and Compiling a report on its activities to be included in the Companys Annual Report.
The Audit and Risk Committee members have a wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Audit and Risk Committees duties.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and has recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the AIC Code.
Therefore the Board has designated him as its financial expert on the Audit and Risk Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee Meetings The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least three times a year.
Only members of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Secretary of the Audit and Risk Committee have the right to attend Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager, Administrator and Sub-Administrator will be invited to attend Audit and Risk Committee meetings on a regular basis and other non-members may be invited to attend all or part of the meeting as and when appropriate and necessary.
The Companys external auditor,  CI LLP PwC is also invited to each meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee also met separately with PwC without the Investment Manager being present.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 33
