AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External Audit continued Non Audit Services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor from becoming compromised, the Audit and Risk Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
No material changes have been made to this policy during the year.
The external auditor and the Directors have agreed that all non-audit services require the preapproval of the Audit and Risk Committee prior to commencing any work.
Fees for non-audit services are tabled annually so that the Audit and Risk Committee can consider the impact on external auditors objectivity.
The external auditor was remunerated 120,102 for the services rendered in 2016.
Of this amount, 87,040 was in relation to the year-end audit and 33,062 was in relation to the procedures performed in respect to the half-year review.
No non-audit services were undertaken by PwC for the Company during the year.
The Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by PwC, and is satisfied with their independence.
The Audit and Risk Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed as external an auditor for the year ending 31 December 2017, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
The auditor, PwC, has indicated willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC as our external auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Audit and Risk Committees choice of external auditor and we do not indemnify our external auditor.
Audit and Risk Committee Evaluation The Audit and Risk Committees activities formed part of the Board evaluation performed in the year.
Details of this process can be found under Performance evaluation on page 29.
Richard Battey On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee 5 April 2017 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 37
