CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Applicable Corporate Governance Codes The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, both published in February 2013 and last amended in July 2016.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
On 1 January 2012, the Guernsey Financial Services Commissions GFSC Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance came into effect.
The GFSC has stated in its Code that companies, which report against the UK Code or the AIC Code, are deemed to meet their Code, and need take no further action.
Corporate Governance Statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except where explanations have been provided.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers the following provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys dayto-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of the following provisions of the following provisions: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration internal audit function The Directors believe that this Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Company complies with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the FCAs DTR by virtue of the information included in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report together with information contained in the Strategic Review and the Directors Report.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 25
