audit Committee Report b. pension scheme funding, accounting and actuarial membership and meetings reports.
Prepared in accordance with International The composition of the Committee is described on Accounting Standards, the Groups balance sheet shows page 37. a net surplus of 46m, comprised of 725m assets and 679m liabilities.
This compares with a net surplus of The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and 38m in the previous year.
consults with external auditors and senior management, including internal audit, where appropriate.
The Committee The Committee reviewed the actuarial assumptions frequently requests that executive directors and senior underlying the calculations and was satisfied that they managers attend meetings in order to reinforce a strong were reasonable and consistently applied.
They are culture of risk management and to keep the Committee highly sensitive to small changes, particularly in respect of up to date with events in the business.
The Group Finance discount rates and inflation see Note 21 to the accounts, Director attended all of this years meetings and the Group and are not intended to reflect the full cost of a fully Chairman attended all but one.
funded pension buy-out: Risks and controls c. foreign currency hedging.
Forward contracts and options are used to manage the Sterling cost of future product The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of purchases: this enables selling prices and gross margins risk management, and has reviewed the key risks together to be set.
with the associated controls and mitigating factors.
Further details regarding the risk framework and approach, together The Committee discussed the systems and processes in with details of our principal risks and risk assessment are relation to the valuation and accounting treatment of such described on pages 26 to 30. contracts with management and the external auditor.
In addition, the Board reviewed and renewed the detailed The Head of Internal Audit is invited to all Audit Committee operating authority framework and limits in place for meetings and provides regular reports and updates.
The execution of such arrangements: Audit Committee has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is d. judgemental accounting areas.
There is a requirement adequate for the size, structure and business risks of the for industry specific and general accounting estimates, Group and is supplemented with appropriate external including those in respect of stock valuation, product resources where needed.
During the year, internal audit returns rates and onerous leases.
During the year the Committee reviewed reports on the reasonableness and consistency of these estimates and Review of financial statements through discussions with management and the external The Committees review of the half year and full year financial auditor was satisfied that they remain appropriate and statements focused on the following areas of significance, reasonable.
all of which were discussed and addressed with our external The Committee is aware of the new IFRS 16 Leases auditors throughout the full year external audit process.
accounting standard issued by the International Accounting There were no significant differences between management Standards Board IASB, which will become effective from and external auditor conclusions.
Implementation of IFRS 16 will significantly a. Directory receivables and related provisions for doubtful impact the Groups balance sheet by adding some 2bn debts.
These, at 932m, represent the largest asset undiscounted of lease liabilities, alongside theoretical class on the Groups balance sheet and have increased right to use assets.
significantly during the year, principally as a result of the reduction in the monthly minimum payments now required to be made by our customers.
Based on detailed reports and through discussions with management and the external auditor, the Committee reviewed and assessed the basis and level of provisions and their sensitivity and was satisfied that the judgements taken were reasonable, consistent and appropriate: 50 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information other reviews External auditors The Audit Committee performed a detailed review of the The Committee had discussions with the external auditor Groups projected cash flows, facilities and covenants which on audit planning, fees, accounting policies, audit findings covered a three year review period our viability assessment and internal control.
The external auditor attended all of period.
The proposed approach was discussed and agreed this years Committee meetings.
The Committee assessed by the Committee in October 2015 and followed up more the effectiveness of the audit through the review of audit recently by reviewing the Groups current financial position plans, reports and conclusions and through discussions and performance, budgets for 2016 17 and 3 year cash with management both with and without external auditors projections which were stress tested for different scenarios present and the external auditor both with and without having regard to the principal risks faced by the business.
The Committee was satisfied that the The Committee reported to the Board that, in its view, the audit was effective.
going concern assumption remains appropriate.
In addition, The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending the as regards the Groups viability assessment, the directors appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external confirmed that they have a reasonable expectation that auditor.
Ernst & Young LLP EY, or its predecessor firms, the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities have been the Groups auditor for over 20 years and there as they fall due over the three year review period.
Further has been regular partner rotation, most recently in 2012. details of this review are detailed on page 31.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly The operations of the Group are highly reliant on the Groups meets with the Audit Partner outside formal meetings.
The Committee receives regular updates from Committee is satisfied that EY continue to possess the the IT and operations teams covering various aspects of skills and experience required to fulfil its duties effectively IT and cyber security.
In this rapidly moving area, there is and efficiently.
Following changes to the UK Corporate inevitably a risk that a systems failure or cyber-attack could Governance Code and EU Regulation which require auditor cause significant business disruption.
Significant resources tendering and rotation, in last years Audit Committee Report are therefore devoted to the development, maintenance and we reported that a tendering process would be undertaken security of IT systems.
to coincide with the rotation of the current audit partner in 2017 18.
In line with this timetable, a tendering process will The Committee also received reports and presentations be undertaken this year and we expect to announce the from senior management on other significant activities of outcome later in 2016. the Group, including Directory Marketing, Social Media and E-commerce, Regulatory compliance and developments, In next years Audit Committee Report we will report further Property, Corporate Responsibility, Suppliers and Code on this and the proposed incoming auditor will be put forward of Practice ethical and responsible sourcing.
The Groups for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee internal controls in areas such as Finance, IT, and Product are remains satisfied with the effectiveness and efficiency of EY regularly reviewed by the Committee.
Frequent updates are but has decided not to invite EY to tender because, by law, received on Health and Safety, Risk Management, Business EY would be required to rotate off in 2020 and a second Continuity, Whistleblowing and Corporate Governance.
tender process only 3 years later would not be efficient.
NEXT confirms that it was in compliance with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year ended 30 January 2016.
51 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 audit Committee Report EY has reported to the Committee that, in its professional judgement, it is independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee has assessed the independence of the auditor, and concurs with this statement.
In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditor, the Board has strict policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Audit Committees approval is required in advance for the provision of any non-audit services if the fee exceeds 100,000 for an individual assignment, or if the aggregate non-audit fees for the year exceed either 150,000 or 20% of the audit fee.
The Committee reviews audit and non-audit fees twice a year.
Proposed assignments of nonaudit services with anticipated fees in excess of 50,000 are generally subject to competitive tender and decisions on the award of work are made on the basis of competence, costeffectiveness and legislation.
A tender process may not be undertaken where existing knowledge of the Group enables the auditor to provide the relevant services more costeffectively than other parties.
The Groups external auditor is prohibited from providing any services that would conflict with their statutory responsibilities or which would otherwise compromise their objectivity or independence.
During the year, EYs audit fee amounted to 0.5m and EYs non-audit fees were less than 0.1m in total.
The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference and composition in January 2016 and believes that they are appropriate.
A copy of the latest Terms of Reference are available on our Companys website www.
Steve Barber Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 March 2016 52 nextplc.
