Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Corporate governance Chairmans Introduction Effective corporate governance is essential to the long term success of our business.
As Chairman, my role is to manage the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and contains the right balance of skills and experience to successfully execute the strategy.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company and for setting and executing the strategy.
In particular, the Board is responsible for monitoring financial performance together with setting and monitoring our risk framework and risk appetite.
Over many years, NEXT has successfully grown its business and created significant shareholder value against the backdrop of a challenging and changing external environment.
This is the ultimate measure of our success and reflects our strong corporate governance structure and the effective management team we have in place.
We remain committed to the robust approach to governance which has served the business well.
John Barton Chairman 24 March 2016 Jonathan Dawson stood down from the Board at the end of Code compliance the 2015 AGM after serving on the Board for 11 years.
Francis The Group complied throughout the year under review with Salway became our Senior Independent Director in place of the provisions set out in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Jonathan Dawson at that time, and Caroline Goodall succeeded Code the Code which is available from the Financial Jonathan as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Reporting Council website at www.
uk and the UK Steve Barber is our longest serving non executive director, FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Disclosures required having been first elected at the 2008 AGM.
6 with regard to share capital are presented in anniversary of his first election is therefore May 2017. the Share capital and major shareholders and Additional The Code requires that any term beyond six years for a information sections of the Directors Report on pages 41 non-executive director should be subject to a particularly and 42. rigorous review, and should take into account the need for Board composition and succession progressive refreshing of the Board.
After giving thorough consideration to the matter, the Board consider that Steve The Board currently includes four independent nonBarbers independence, skills and experience allow him executive directors and the Chairman who bring considerable to make a very effective contribution as a non-executive knowledge, judgement and experience to the Group.
The director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board has a good record of recruiting new non-executive directors at regular intervals to achieve appropriate rotation The Board considers that all of its non-executive directors and continuity.
are independent in character and judgement, and their knowledge, diversity of experience and other business There were a number of changes to the Board during the interests continue to enable them to contribute significantly year.
After 29 years at NEXT and 24 years serving on the to the work of the Board.
Terms of appointment of Board, David Keens retired as Group Finance Director on non-executive directors are available for inspection at the 1 April 2015 and Amanda James was appointed in his place Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Amanda has been with NEXT for 20 years and her appointment continues to demonstrate NEXTs The Companys Articles of Association require directors to successful history of promoting internal candidates to most submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least senior management and executive Board positions through once every three years.
However, the Board has determined career development.
that all directors will stand for re-election at each AGM in accordance with the Code.
45 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Corporate governance The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain of Board responsibilities its duties, three of which are detailed below.
Each of these The Board is responsible for major policy decisions whilst is chaired by a different director and has written terms of delegating more detailed matters to its committees reference which are available on the Companys website or and officers including the Chief Executive.
responsible for the Groups system of risk management FiNd oUT moRE oN oUR WEBSiTE aT and internal control and for monitoring implementation of WWW.
CO. UK ABOUT-NEXT CORPORATEits policies by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal GOVERNANCE  control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material attendance at Board and Committee misstatement or loss.
meetings The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for it and The Board held nine formal meetings during the year, the holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, Audit Committee held four meetings, the Remuneration including investments, treasury and dividend policies Committee held eight meetings and the Nomination and significant items of capital expenditure.
The Board is Committee held one meeting.
All meetings were fully responsible for approving semi-annual Group budgets.
Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly and any substantial variances are explained.
Forecasts for audit Committee each half year are revised and reviewed monthly.
Certain The Committee consists of the four independent other important matters are subject to weekly or monthly non-executive directors including the senior non-executive reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including sales, director and at least one member Steve Barber, the treasury operations and capital expenditure programmes.
Committee Chairman with recent and relevant financial Board papers including reports from the Chief Executive and experience.
The Audit Committee Report on page 50 other executive directors are circulated in advance of each describes the role and activities of the Committee.
There is a regular flow of written and verbal information Remuneration Committee between all directors irrespective of the timing of meetings.
The Committee consists of the Chairman and the four In addition, our executive directors drive forward operational independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is business strategies by way of attendance at key trading chaired by Caroline Goodall, who succeeded Jonathan meetings and work closely with our business areas.
This style Dawson after he stood down following the 2015 AGM.
The of management serves to align with our risk management Committee determines the remuneration of the executive framework and facilitates senior management setting the directors in accordance with the Remuneration Policy and tone from the top by their involvement in the business on a reviews the remuneration of senior management.
the Remuneration Report summarises the role and activities All new directors receive a personalised induction of the Committee.
programme, tailored to their experience, background and understanding of the Groups operations.
Individual training needs are reviewed regularly and training is provided where a need is identified or requested.
All directors receive frequent updates on a variety of issues relevant to the Groups business, including regulatory and governance issues.
Meetings of the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present are held at least annually, both with and without the Chairman.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and facilitating the flow of information within the Board.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Nomination Committee Chief Executive The Committee consists of the Chairman and the four The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief independent non-executive directors including the senior Executive to achieve.
The Board is responsible for general non-executive director.
The Committee meets whenever policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates necessary to consider succession planning for directors the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The and other senior executives, to ensure that requisite skills Chief Executive is required to report at each Board meeting and expertise are available to the Board to address future all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
management delegation External consultants may be used to assist in identifying The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to suitable external Board candidates, based on a written day management of the business to operational management specification for each appointment.
The Chairman is drawn from executive directors and other senior management responsible for providing a shortlist of candidates for who have responsibility for their respective areas.
The most consideration by the Committee which then makes its important management meetings are the weekly NEXT Brand recommendation for final approval by the Board.
As noted trading and capital expenditure meetings which consider the above, Amanda James, previously our Brand Finance performance and development of the NEXT Brand through Director with 20 years experience at NEXT, was promoted its different distribution channels.
These meetings cover risk to the Board on 1 April 2015. management of all business areas in respect of the NEXT Appointments to the Board, as with other positions Brand including product, sales, property, warehousing, within the Group, are made on merit according to the systems and personnel.
Key performance indicators are balance of skills and experience offered by prospective monitored daily and weekly.
Whilst acknowledging the benefits of diversity, individual appointments are made irrespective of personal directors conflicts of interest characteristics such as race, religion or gender.
The number In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the of directors, senior managers and employees by gender is Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare given in the Strategic Report.
situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the matter being Chairman considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational There is a clear division of responsibilities between the offices conflict, the non-conflicted directors consider the situation in of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is set out in writing conjunction with their general duties under the Companies and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman manages the Board Act 2006.
They may impose limits or conditions when giving to ensure: that the Group has appropriate objectives and an an authorisation or subsequently if considered appropriate.
effective strategy: that there is a high calibre Chief Executive Any situational conflicts considered by the Board, and any with a team of executive directors able to implement the authorisations given, are recorded in the Board minutes and in strategy: that there are procedures in place to inform the a register of conflicts which is reviewed annually by the Board.
Board of performance against objectives: and that the Group is operating in accordance with a high standard of corporate governance.
The current Chairman became a member of the Board in 2002 and was an independent non-executive director of the Company prior to his appointment as Chairman on 17 May 2006.
His other significant commitments are noted on page 36, and the Board considers that these are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
47 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Corporate governance performance evaluation Risk management During the year a performance review of the Board, its The Board is responsible for the Groups risk Committees and directors was undertaken with the assistance management process and has delegated responsibility of an external facilitator, Independent Audit Limited.
for its implementation to the Chief Executive and senior Independent Audit has no connection with NEXT beyond management best qualified in each area of the business.
The Board intends to conduct an externally The Board sets guidance on the general level of risk which facilitated review every three years in line with the Code.
is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and reward, promoting a risk-aware culture throughout The review process took place during the final quarter of the business.
the year and involved interviews with each director and the Company Secretary.
Independent Audit also reviewed Board The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the and Committee papers over the past year and attended and principal risks facing the Company and has also conducted observed the November Board meeting.
an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the year.
Please refer to pages 26 to The review covered all aspects of the effectiveness of the 30 for further information.
Risk management and internal Board including composition: experience: dynamics: the control is a continuous process and has been considered Chairmans leadership: the Boards role and responsibilities by the Board on a regular basis throughout the year.
with particular regard to strategy: oversight of risk: and This includes identifying and evaluating principal risks, succession planning.
Independent Audit prepared a report to determining control strategies and considering how they the Board, which was included in the papers for the Boards may impact on the achievement of the business objectives.
January meeting, and attended the meeting to present and The Board promotes the development of a strong control discuss their findings.
The review highlighted that the Board culture within the business.
The Audit Committee regularly dynamics are positive and constructive, there is a strong reviews strategic and operational risk, and has reviewed focus on shareholder interests and the non-executives bring the principal risks described on pages 27 to 30 and the a broad range of skills and experience and a good degree associated controls and mitigating factors.
The Chairman and Company Secretary are considering appropriate action in response to areas for The Board considers that the Groups management structure possible attention highlighted by the evaluation and are and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators incorporating these into existing plans around succession provide the ability to identify promptly any material areas planning and director training and development.
Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of conduct are maintained in respect of specific The senior independent non-executive director leads the major risk areas and business processes.
Through these appraisal of the performance of the Chairman through measures the management of business risk is an integral part discussions with all the directors individually and, together of Group policy and the Board will continue to develop risk with the Chairman, appraises the performance of the Chief management and internal controls where necessary.
The performance of the executive directors is monitored throughout the year by the Chief Executive and The use of a Group accounting manual and prescribed the Chairman.
The Chairman also monitors the performance reporting requirements for finance teams throughout the of the non-executive directors.
Group ensures that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and consistently applied.
Information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process and the use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented consistently to facilitate the production of the consolidated financial statements.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information personal use of company assets going concern and viability assessment The Board carried out a review during the year and confirmed The Groups business activities, together with the factors that there has been no improper personal use of company likely to affect its future development, performance and assets by directors.
Policies are in place to ensure approval position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Strategic procedures are applied to expense claims and that these are Report also describes the Groups financial position, cash in accordance with service agreements.
The benefits in kind flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which provided to executive directors have been reviewed by the is detailed in the financial statements.
Information on the Remuneration Committee and considered to be appropriate.
Groups financial management objectives, and how derivative instruments are used to hedge its capital, credit and liquidity Relations with shareholders risks is provided in Note 27 to the financial statements.
The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the The directors report that, having reviewed current Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board performance and forecasts, they have a reasonable is accountable to shareholders for the performance and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to activities of the Group.
continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect basis in preparing the financial statements.
of the Groups business activities through its Annual Report, yearly and half yearly announcements and other regular trading The directors have assessed the prospects of the Company statements.
Full year and other public announcements are over a three year period.
Further details of the viability presented in a consistent format with a particular focus on assessment are provided on page 31. making the presentations as meaningful, understandable and comparable as possible.
This information is also made publicly available via the Companys website www.
All shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent their views to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys largest shareholders are invited to the annual and half year results presentations, at which executive and non-executive directors are present.
Non-executive directors attend other meetings with shareholders if requested.
Soon after their appointment as senior independent non-executive director and Remuneration Committee Chairman, Francis Salway and Caroline Goodall wrote to representatives of our significant shareholders and various investment bodies with an invitation to meet with them to discuss any issues or concerns.
Our shareholder views are also communicated to the Board through the inclusion in Board reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
Whilst the Board recognises that it is primarily accountable to the Companys shareholders, the views of other providers of capital are also considered.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
