Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 73 Senior management team See biographies of executive directors Frank Monstrey, Kai-Uwe Kessel and Tom Richardson on page 70.
Thomas Hartnett Heinz Wendel Chief Legal Officer Chief Operating Officer and Company Secretary DOB: 4 July 1964 DOB: 22 August 1953 Nationality: US Belgian Nationality: German Skills and experience 1996-1998 served as Senior Skills and experience Served in various managerial Appointed as General Counsel Corporate Counsel for Appointed as Chief Operating and technical capacities in of the Nostrum Group on Intercontinental Hotels Group Officer of the Group in November Germany, Poland, Russia and 5 September 2008 and as formerly Bass Hotels & Resorts.
Kazakhstan with, among others, Company Secretary of Nostrum GDF SUEZ E&P Deutschland Holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in 2013-2016 held position as General Oil & Gas PLC on 3 October and East German Erdl-Erdgas Comparative and Developmental Director of Zhaikmunai LLP.
Politics from the University of 2012-2013 held position More than 16 years experience Pennsylvania and a Juris Doctor Graduate of the Oil & Gas as Operations Director of with the law firm White & Case degree from New York University Institute of Baku, Azerbaijan.
LLP where he was a Partner School of Law.
30 years experience in oil and and specialised in cross-border Member of the New York Bar.
gas exploration and production, corporate and M&A transactions primarily as an oil and gas based in the firms New York, engineer.
Istanbul, London, Brussels and Bangkok offices.
1 Berik Brekeshev Sergey Khafizov Chief Commercial Officer Chief Business Development Officer DOB: 1 April 1975 DOB: 14 February 1965 Nationality: Kazakh Nationality: Russian Skills and experience Previously held senior positions Skills and experience Previously held managerial Appointed as Chief Commercial with Starleigh Ltd, Tallahassee Appointed as Chief Business and technical positions with Officer in September 2016.
Holdings Limited and JSC NNGRE Development Officer in Gazprom Neft and TNK-BP.
and commercial roles at Nelson September2016.
2010-2016 held position Graduate of the Gubkin Resources, Kazakhoil Aktobe, as Commercial Director of 2015-2016 held position as Project Russian State University of Oil Buzachi Operating, Atlas Global Zhaikmunai LLP.
Director and Head of Exploration and Gas, Doctor of Science, Investment and Western-Siberian Department.
Geology Professor, Full Member Almost 10 years experience Drilling Company.
Academician of the Russian in the oil and gas industry in Over 25 years of experience Holds an MBA International Academy of Natural Sciences, Kazakhstan and Russia.
in geological exploration and Marketing from the Maastricht Member of the American production, leading large School of Management.
Association of Petroleum exploration projects, research Geologists AAPG and Society andproject teams.
1 Mr Brekeshev resigned as Chief Commercial Officer on 13 January 2017.
Arkadi Epifanov has assumed Mr Brekeshevs responsibilities on a temporary basis until a suitable successor is appointed.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
