92 | Nomination and Governance Committee Report Letter from the Chairman Role of the Nomination and Governance Committee The primary responsibilities of the committee are set out inits terms of reference which are reviewed and updated annually, and which are available for download on the Companys website.
Alternatively, copies can be obtained on request from the company secretary.
The key responsibilities of the committee are to: lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board regarding candidates forappointment or reappointment as directors: monitor and make recommendations to the Board on board governance and corporate governance issues, toenable the Board to operate effectively and efficiently: regularly review the structure, size and composition Chairmans introduction including skills, knowledge and experience required I am pleased to report on the Nomination and Governance ofthe Board: Committee, which I chair.
keep under review the leadership needs of the Company, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring The Nomination and Governance Committee has met the continued ability of the Company to compete fourtimes this year.
The attendance of each committee effectively in the marketplace: and member at committee meetings held during 2016 is shown review annually the time required from non-executive on page 79.
I report to the Board, as a separate agenda directors.
item, on the activities of the committee at each quarterly Board meeting.
Committee meetings Only members of the committee have the right to attend Membership committee meetings.
However, other individuals such Until 31 December 2016, the committee consisted of asthe chief executive, the head of human resources and FrankMonstrey, Eike von der Linden and myself.
However, external advisers may be invited to attend all or part of on 31 December 2016, Eike von der Linden stepped down anymeeting, as and when appropriate.
from the Board and his successor, Kaat Van Hecke, became a member of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Tom Richardsons appointment The committee reviewed the mix and skills of the Board inlight of its aim to develop talent internally to create a pipeline to the Board and decided that Tom Richardson, who had replaced Jan-Ru Muller as chief financial officer, should also replace Mr Muller as an executive director of the Company.
Tom has worked for the Company for several years as Head of Corporate Finance and the committee feltthat he was the most appropriate candidate in terms of experience, qualifications and knowledge of the Company and the industry in which it operates.
Therefore, no external search consultancy was required in relation to this appointment.
The Board accepted the committees recommendation andTom accepted the Boards invitation and became chief financial officer and an executive director of the Company with effect from 1 September 2016.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 93 Kaat Van Heckes appointment Board self-evaluation As mentioned in the committees 2015 report, diversity The committee oversaw the 2016 externally facilitated isan important issue for the Board and it recognised that, self-evaluation of the Board and will continue its analysis despite the Company not being formally required to do so, ofthe results of the evaluation during 2017.
A description steps should to be taken to try to meet the voluntary Board ofthe process and conclusions of the 2016 externally gender diversity targets set by Lord Davies.
Therefore, facilitated Board evaluation is set out on page 77. thecommittee spent a significant portion of 2016 trying toidentify a suitable female candidate to join the Board.
Director training The committee engaged Russell Reynolds Associates The committee has also kept the training needs of the which has no connection to the Company in connection directors under review throughout the year, especially in with this search and Mrs Van Hecke was identified as a relation to environmental, social and governance matters.
suitable candidate and was invited to meet the committee The chairman reminds the Board on a regular basis of their members.
Following those meetings, the committee right to request training on any topic and details of Board recommended to the Board that Mrs Van Hecke be training conducted throughout the year is set out on invitedto become a non-executive director and that pages77-78.
Eikevon der Linden step down as director to make way forMrs Van Heckes appointment on the basis that an During the year ahead the committee intends to continue expansion of the size of the Board is not currently to build on the progress it has made in terms of succession envisaged and in light of Provision B.
2.3 of the Code, planning to keep the composition of the Board and its sinceMr von der Linden was the longest-serving committees under constant review and to assess how talent independent non-executive director.
In light of this is developed internally to create a pipeline to the Board proposal, the committee also recommended to the Board toensure that good governance practices are being that: i Mark Martin be appointed as senior independent achieved.
Further definition of the Boards approach to director and as a member of the Audit Committee and succession planning has been adopted as an action item ii Atul Gupta be appointed as chairman of the Audit for the committee for 2017.
The Board accepted all of the committees recommendations and it was agreed that they would takeeffect from 31 December 2016.
Given Mr von der Lindens significant contribution to theGroup and in particular, in relation to his prior role aschairman of the Audit Committee, the Company hasentered into a separate advisory agreement with Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
Mrvon der Linden pursuant to which he will provide On behalf of the Nomination and Governance Committee advisory services to the Audit Committee upon their 27 March 2017 request until 31March 2017.
The committee is satisfied that, following the above mentioned changes, the mix of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board and, in particular, those of the chairman and chief executive remain appropriate and doesnot foresee making any further changes to the composition of the Board in the near future.
The committee will continue to keep the composition of the Board including, but not limited to, gender diversity, under review and will recommend changes as and when it feels it is appropriate to do so without setting any specific targets relating to thesame.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
