86 | Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report Letter from the Chairman This was reinforced by our new approach of holding pre-meetings shortly prior to the committees quarterly meetings, the latter being normally held on the same day as the quarterly Board meetings.
Such pre-meetings provided the committee an opportunity to discuss fully critical issues and to address any questions or comments from committee members in advance of the formal committee and Board meetings.
I believe the committee has had and continues to have arobust balance of relevant skills and experience, and thatthe committee has effectively discharged its duties throughout the year.
Dear shareholder, It is my pleasure to present the Audit Committee report forthe financial year ended 31 December 2016.
Atul Gupta Chairman, Audit Committee I was appointed chairman of the Audit Committee effective Independent Non-executive Director from 31 December 2016, when Mr Eike von der Linden stepped down both as senior independent non-executive director and as chairman of the Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I would like to thank Eike forhis invaluable contribution and resolute leadership andwish him every success for the future.
I would also liketo welcome my fellow Director Mr Mark Martin to thecommittee.
Mark has served as an independent non-executive director of the Company since 2014 and brings a wealth of financial and industry experience.
2016 was another challenging year for Nostrum and wecontinued to work closely with senior management, external auditors and the internal auditor.
Our work focused on supporting the Board by monitoring the quality and integrity of financial information, scrutinising internal control and risk management systems, compliance and seeking to ensure the effectiveness and objectivity of the external and internal auditors.
In addition to these largely fixed agenda items the committee also examined the process of reserves estimation, oil and gas production rates, liquidity and viability analysis and progress of the construction of GTU3.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 87 Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Meetings The primary role of the committee is to assist the Board in The committee meets on a quarterly basis and as and when achieving the Groups strategic objectives whilst protecting required.
The chief financial officer, the chief legal officer stakeholder interests.
andcompany secretary, the internal audit manager and the external auditor are invited to the meetings.
The committee The key areas of responsibility of the committee are held six meetings during 2016 and the attendance of each categorised below and are described in more detail in the committee member at meetings of the committee is shown committee terms of reference which are available on the on page 79.
co. uk: In addition, the committee receives monthly management review the Groups annual and interim reports including updates covering key issues including financial and financial statements, formal announcements of financial operational performance and the status of key initiatives.
results and other related announcements: review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Interaction with the Financial Reporting Council FRC andrisk management systems: The Groups 2015 Annual Report and Accounts were monitor compliance with applicable regulatory and legal reviewed by the FRCs Corporate Reporting team, which was requirements and the Groups Code of Conduct: based on Groups report and accounts and did not benefit monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal from detailed knowledge of the Groups business or an audit function: understanding of the underlying transactions entered into.
maintain the relationship with the Companys external The role of the FRC is not to verify the information provided auditor and oversee its appointment, remuneration and but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
terms of engagement whilst continually assessing its Onthe basis of this review, it was recommended to improve independence and objectivity: and disclosures within the financial statements related to review audit findings and assess the standard and significant judgements and estimates, which, where relevant, effectiveness of the external audit.
were taken into account by the Group when preparing 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Membership Name Membership start date In addition, the committee received a copy of the report of Eike von der Linden Member and Chairman the FRCs Audit Quality Review team issued on the basis from 19 May 2014 to oftheir review of the audit of the financial statements of the 31December 2016 Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The focus ofthe review was on identifying areas where improvements Atul Gupta Member since arerequired.
The committee discussed the findings with 19 May 2014, Chairman theexternal auditor, and noted that no significant areas for since 31 December 2016 improvement were identified in the report.
Member since 19May 2014 Mark Martin Member since Self-assessment 31December 2016 The committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and effectiveness.
In June 2016, such an The members of the Audit Committee were selected with evaluation was included as part of the Boards externally theaim of providing a wide range of financial, commercial facilitated performance evaluation conducted with the and industry expertise necessary to meet the role and support of an external independent consulting company.
Details of the qualifications Thesurvey examined the committees role in external of each member of the committee can be found in their reporting, external audit, internal audit, risk strategy and respective biographies on pages 70-72. framework, risk exposures, overall engagement externally and internally, as well as roles and responsibilities.
Areas The Company engagedEike von der Linden, following offurther focus arising from the evaluation were risk hisresignation as a member of the Audit Committee, as management and internal audit.
Aside from this observation, aconsultant to advise AuditCommittee members at their the committee concluded that its mandate and oversight request on committee matters for a transitional period performance were appropriate.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 88 | Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report Activities during the year Any questions and comments from the committee or the In 2016 an annual planner was introduced listing the topics external auditor were discussed with management.
and issues requiring the committees attention.
These topics Subsequently, based on its overall assessment the committee were based on the requirements of the UK Corporate recommended that the Board approve the financial Governance Code 2014 2014 Code, the FRCs Guidance statements and the Annual Report.
on Audit Committees dated April 2016, the committees terms of reference and other relevant sources.
The committee continuously provides feedback to management on ways to improve the effectiveness and clarity In accordance with its responsibilities outlined above, the of the Groups corporate reporting and works closely with committees activities can be summarised into the following management to ensure that any new regulatory four main areas: requirements, for example the reporting of payments to governments, are fully complied with.
Financial reporting Risk management and internal controls Significant judgements and estimates Compliance Significant judgements and estimates applied by External audit management when preparing the financial statements are closely related to the principal risks and uncertainties faced Each of these four categories is dealt with in more detail in Sections 1 to 4 below.
by the Group, which are subject to constant monitoring by the Board and the committee.
Financial reporting the key areas where significant judgements and estimates are applied and the corresponding actions taken by the In reviewing the quarterly and annual financial statements aswell as the Annual Report, the committee focused on committee to address them.
challenging: compliance of the applied accounting policies and disclosures with financial reporting standards and relevant corporate governance requirements: significant judgements and estimates applied by management: and whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess theGroups performance, business model and strategy.
Significant judgements and estimates Committee actions Oil and gas reserves estimation and accounting The committee reviewed assumptions and judgements Oil and gas reserves are estimated by the Groups reserve made in the reserve estimation report and also examined engineers and audited by independent reserve engineers.
These are used to calculate the depletion of oil and gas assets and as input data for impairment testing models.
Recoverability of non-current assets carrying values The committee reviewed the detailed reports on impairment The Group performs impairment testing of goodwill on testing prepared by management and challenged the anannual basis as required by IFRS.
The impairment testing appropriateness of the assumptions.
Areas of particular focus issubject to application of management judgement and were the assumed oil prices and discount rates particularly various assumptions underlying the calculation of the inlight of current oil price and related risk volatility.
Special value-in-use of the Companys single cash generating unit.
consideration was also given to the sensitivity analysis in The applied judgements and estimates rely on geological, relation to these assumptions.
Other significant judgements and estimates The committee examined each of these issues and sought The decommissioning of oil and gas assets at the end of clarifications as and when necessary.
theireconomic lives, the provisioning for contingent and other liabilities, current and deferred income tax and fair value of financial instruments are all areas that require the management to use judgement and estimates.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 89 Significant matters communicated by the external auditors In accordance with requirements of the 2014 Code relating Significant risks identified by the external auditor were related tothe viability statement, the committee reviewed the impact to the above-mentioned areas involving judgments and and sensitivity analysis of such risks on the Groups long-term estimates as well as the following areas which were viability.
The principal areas of risk management assessed additionally considered by thecommittee: bythe committee are described in the table below.
Revenue recognition the committee believes that Groups Internal control system policy and internal controls in relation to revenue The Groups internal control system is aimed at mitigating recognition adequately respond to this risk.
These include: Related party transactions and disclosures the committee has been monitoring procedures for identification of corporate governance: segregation of authorities and related parties to ensure that pre-approvals are obtained duties at various levels: before entering into any such contracts.
policies and procedures covering directors remuneration, Risk of management override in the committees view compliance, accounting and reporting, health, safety and aset of internal controls, as described below in the section environment as described in the relevant sections of the internal control system, sufficiently minimizes the risks Annual Report: related to managements ability to manipulate accounting training and internal communications: records or to misappropriate assets.
continuous monitoring by senior management and the Board of short-term, medium-term and long-term planning 2.
Risk management and internal controls and decision-making processes: The committee continuously monitored risk management internal audit work and any remedial action taken by system, further information on which can be found in the Risk management in response to findings.
Management section on pages 50-52 of the Annual Report.
In the committees view, the Group maintained robust and defensible systems of risk management and internal control, and the committee made recommendations to senior management on further improvements as and when considered necessary.
Key areas of the committees focus in relation to principal risks GTU3 construction and well drilling Construction of GTU3 and the drilling programme continued to be a key focusfor the committee, particularly in light of low oil prices.
The committee reviewed progress reports and met regularly with management to discuss potential problems and to provide recommendations on future steps to be taken by management.
Oil and gas production rates Oil and gas production volumes, being one of the strategic indicators of the Groups performance, are subject to risks and uncertainties of a geological and technological nature.
The committee has been constantly monitoring forecast production rates in comparison to actual rates.
Any material variances were discussed and explanations sought either during committee meetings ordedicated presentations given by management.
Health, safety and environment As part of the monthly management reports the committee reviewed the Groups activities to ensure an appropriate level of protection for health, safety and the environment.
The committee has also reviewed the annual report prepared by the independent environmental auditor outlining the Groups compliance and related recommendations for improvement.
Cyber security The committee examined cyber security matters and discussed with management past and planned actions directed at addressing the recommendations from external consultants.
Also, the chairman of the committee received timely updates on the risks and responses in the context of the Cyber Governance Health Check carried out by the UK authorities.
Financial reporting The committee seeks to ensure the accurate maintenance of accounting records and related transactions.
In light of the volatility of oil prices, the committee focused on the review of impairment testing, going concern andthe viability statement.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 90 | Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report Internal audit 4.
External audit The primary role of the internal audit function is to assist Appointment of external auditor theBoard and senior management to protect the assets, Since 2007, Ernst & Young LLP Kazakhstan has been the reputation and sustainability of the organisation.
This is auditor of the predecessor group of companies and achieved through: continued auditing Zhaikmunai LLP during 2016.
On the recommendation of the committee and subsequent approval building strong and effective risk awareness within the by the Companys shareholders, Ernst & Young LLP UK was Group: first appointed as an auditor of the Group on 19 May 2014. continuously improving risk management and control processes so that they operate effectively and efficiently Guidance contained under provision C. 3.7 of the 2014 and reflect leading practice: and Codeprovides that companies should put their external sharing best practice with regard to risk management auditcontract out to tender at least once every ten years.
Thecommittee initiated a tender for the external audit arrangements for the year ending 31 December 2016 to The committee reviewed findings and recommended actions ensure that the Group was receiving the highest possible from the Groups internal audit manager.
Based on its quality audit services commensurate with the best assessment of the internal audits competence, resourcing, availableprice.
delivery, findings and reporting, the committee was satisfied that the quality, experience and expertise of the function As a result of the tender it was concluded that it would be in isappropriate for the business.
the best interests of the stakeholders to continue engaging Ernst & Young LLP UK as the Groups external auditor.
Compliance with laws and regulations Following a recommendation to that effect from the Board, The chief legal officer and company secretary attends the the shareholders approved the re appointment of Ernst & committees quarterly meetings which allow the committee Young LLP UK at the Annual General Meeting held on to raise any concerns related to legal, compliance, whistle- 28June 2016. blowing and the status of any on-going litigation.
Mr Richard Addison was appointed as lead audit engagement UK Corporate Governance Code partner on 19 May 2014 and has to-date continued in In relation to the work of the committee, as of 31 December thisrole.
2016, Nostrum had complied with all the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
Throughout 2016 the Group was in compliance with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, Whistle-blowing arrangements issuedby the CMA.
Nostrum has a Group Whistle-blowing Policy and to ensure that all Group employees have access to someone who 2016 audit canprovide them with support and guidance the Group has During Q4 2016 the Audit Committee reviewed and twocompliance liaison officers: one Russian-speaking officer discussed the detailed audit plan prepared by Ernst & Young based in Kazakhstan and another Dutch and EnglishLLP UK which identified the audit scope and its assessment speaking officer based in Brussels.
The Audit Committee of significant risks.
The key risks monitored by the committee maintained close contact with the compliance liaison officers corresponded with those identified and assessed by and as at the end of 2016 the committee was aware of one management and the external auditor.
All members of the whistle-blowing case which was fully investigated in committee supported the application of professional accordance with the whilstle-blowing policy.
Internal audit scepticism by the Groups external auditor.
was responsible for investigating the case and prepared areport detailing the outcomes of the investigation which During 2016, the members of the committee held was presented to the Audit Committee.
The outcome of the privatemeetings with the external auditor, which provided investigation was that there was no evidence of workplace amutualopportunity for open dialogue and feedback wrongdoing by the person named in the disclosure.
Topics covered at suchmeetings included: the external auditors assessment Corporate Bonds Covenants ofsignificant risks and related management actions, At its quarterly meetings, the committee is updated by confirmation that there had been no restriction in the scope management on the Groups compliance with covenants placed on it by management, the adequacy of the audit contained in the 2012 and 2014 Corporate Bonds.
fees, the independence of its audit and how the auditor hadexercised professional scepticism.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 91 The committee reviewed the 2016 H1 interim and 2016 The detailed breakdown of audit and non-audit fees can be annual auditors reports giving particular consideration to found in the Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements theaudit procedures and findings in the areas of significant of the Group on page 120.
The ratio of auditfees to non-audit judgements and estimates.
The committee also reviewed fees in 2016 was 1.84 2015: 1.76.
Asignificant proportion of theletter of representations in respect of both the interim non-audit fees was attributable to quarterly reviews of interim review and the annual audit, which were subsequently financial statements.
Considering the assurance nature of signedby management.
these services, the committee concluded that it was in the best interest of the Group that such services were provided The committee evaluated the effectiveness of the external by the external auditor.
audit process by completing a questionnaire, which addressed areas such as processes, audit team, audit scope, By operating in accordance with the above policy and other communications, technical expertise, audit governance and practices established within the Group, the committee was independence and audit fees.
On the basis of such evaluation satisfied that adequate safeguards were in place to ensure the committee concluded that the performance of the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
external auditor remains at an appropriately high level.
On behalf of the Board Non-audit services In 2016, the Groups Policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor was revised based on the requirements of the FRC Revised Ethical Standards dated June 2016 and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees Atul Gupta dated April 2016.
The main principle of the policy is that Chairman, Audit Committee non-audit services may only be provided by the external Independent Non-executive Director auditor where the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity and standard 27 March 2017 supplier selection procedures are carried out.
Committee pre-approval is required before the external auditor is engaged to provide any permitted non-audit services asdefined in the policy in addition to any other approvals required by the Board and management pursuant to powers delegated by the Board or Nostrums internal approvals policies.
The committee monitors the external auditor to ensure that it does not provide non-audit services that are prohibited by the FRC and limits such services to due diligence services, other assurance services.
The revised policy is available on the Groups website at www.
and will be reviewed and amended as and when required.
Audit and non-audit fees US$ thousands 180 173 2016 2015 285 23 358 19 Audit fees Other non-audit services Quarterly reviews of interim financial statements Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
