GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 60 61 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Chairmans introduction The Audit and Risk Committee has an important role in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and risk management.
andre bw ob a m ll aner cke nIz iC e hI ai Cr hm airan man The other area I would like to highlight and where I believe we Dear Shareholder, have continued to make good progress is risk management.
The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee has an The Boards risk appetite and approach towards risk is outlined important role in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial in the Managing risk report on pages 38 to 42.
This year we reporting and in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups commissioned an external review of our risk management internal control systems and risk management.
Whilst this showed that our risk management The report which follows sets out details on the workings of processes were comparable to our peers it highlighted areas the Committee, the work done during the year and the key where we can improve further and this will be a focus of the issues considered in the preparation of the financial statements Committee in the forthcoming year.
and the related information, judgements and assurance We also engaged in a review of cyber security risk during received.
Again, our risk rating was considered appropriate As reported last year we conducted a formal tender process for an organisation of our nature and we are acting upon for the external audit and I am pleased to report that PwC recommendations made in order to reduce our level of cyber were appointed as external auditors at the AGM in September risk further.
2015 replacing Deloitte as the outgoing firm.
The transition I hope you find this report useful and I would welcome any has progressed smoothly due to the combined efforts of comments.
the Committee, PwC and executive management.
We look forward to continuing to work with PwC for the rest of their This will be my final report to you as Chairman of the tenure.
I would like to thank management and our The key accounting issue considered during the year advisers for their support over the last nine years and wish my continued to be determining appropriate depreciation rates successor, Bill Spencer, every success in the years ahead.
This is an area where the accounting rules Andrew Allner do not facilitate an easy understanding of the accounts and Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee underlying trends in the business.
In order to address this 27 June 2016 challenge we have included a separate report on pages 32 to 35, which deals with this issue alone and we hope that it enhances the understanding of our financial results.
com stock code: NTG Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Role Activity The role of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out in the Since May 2015, the Committee has: Introduction to Governance report on page 56.
| reviewed the financial statements for the years ended 30 April 2015 and 2016 and the half yearly report issued Membership in December 2015.
As part of this review process, the The members of the Committee, who are all non-executive Committee received reports from Deloitte on the 2015 Directors of the Company, are: full year results and PwC on the half year and 2016 full year results.
For the full year results this included Date of appointment making a recommendation to the Board as to whether AJ Allner FCA Chairman 26 September 2007 the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and G Caseberry 10 December 2012 understandable: C Miles 27 November 2015 | overseen the transition in external auditor from Deloitte B Spencer 1 June 2016 to PwC: The Code requires that at least one member of the Committee | reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be should have recent and relevant financial experience: currently, undertaken by PwC and agreed their fees: the Chairman of the Committee and Bill Spencer fulfil this | monitored the Groups risk management process and requirement.
All members of the Committee are expected to business continuity procedures: be financially literate.
| reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of Meetings internal controls: The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year.
| reviewed the Groups whistleblowing procedures: Details of attendance at meetings held in the year ended | reviewed the Groups depreciation policy: 30 April 2016 are given on page 58.
| reviewed the Groups corporate taxation arrangements: Due to the cyclical nature of its agenda, which is linked to | reviewed the output of the risk management framework events in the Groups financial calendar, the Committee will review: generally meet four times a year.
The other Directors, together with the Group Head of Internal Audit and the external | reviewed the external report on cyber security: auditor, are normally invited to attend all meetings.
| reviewed the viability statement made on page 42: | reviewed a management paper on the Groups investor relations activities, principally focused on communication through the annual report: 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 62 63 | monitored and reviewed the activities of the Groups The Boards policy on non-audit services provided by the Internal Audit department: external auditor, developed and recommended by the Committee, is: | monitored and assessed the Groups going concern status: | considered the risk implications of the UK referendum | Certain audit related work such as the review of the half result to leave the EU and the political uncertainty in Spain: year announcement, being work that, in its capacity as auditor, it is best placed to carry out and will generally be | reviewed the Groups Code of Business Conduct, including asked to do so.
Nevertheless, where appropriate, it will be the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010, and the effective asked for a fee quote: and monitoring of the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality: and | Tax compliance, tax advisory and other non-audit related and general consultancy work: this type of work will | reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference.
either be placed on the basis of the lowest fee quote or Significant issues considered in relation to the to consultants who are felt to be best able to provide the financial statements expertise and working relationship required.
The external During the year the Committee considered, discussed with the auditor is not invited to compete for this type of work.
For external auditor and concluded on what the significant risks this reason PwC were replaced as the Groups tax adviser in and issues were in relation to the financial statements and the year following their appointment as external auditor.
how these would be addressed: Fees paid and payable to PwC in respect of the year under | Determining appropriate depreciation rates for review are as shown in Note 5 on page 100. vehicles available for hire in addition to a monthly PwC were appointed at the AGM in September 2015 as a review of adjustments to depreciation when vehicles are result of the proposal put forward being passed.
sold, the Committee reviewed formal papers prepared by management at each reporting date which included a The Committee reviewed the effectiveness and qualitative assessment of the current and forecast trends in independence of the external auditor, taking into account the used vehicle market.
After due challenge and debate, input from management, consideration of responses to the Committee were content with the assumptions and questions from the Committee and the audit findings judgements made: reported to the Committee, including conducting one-to- | The recoverability of aged trade receivables one meetings with the audit partner.
Based on all of this throughout the period, KPIs are provided.
The Committee information, the Committee concluded that the audit process ensured that management dedicated sufficient resources to was operating effectively.
As a result of this the Committee mitigate bad debt risk across the Group: has recommended to the Board the reappointment of PwC at the AGM.
| Provisions for uncertain tax positions the Committee reviewed formal papers prepared by management at each Internal Audit reporting date which outlined the Groups tax positions.
In fulfilling its duty to monitor the effectiveness of the Internal The Committee challenged areas where significant Audit function, the Committee has: judgement was taken in order to determine the level of | reviewed the adequacy of the resources of the Internal provisions held in the balance sheet and was satisfied with Audit department for both the UK and Spain: the judgements made: | ensured that the Head of Internal Audit has direct access | Presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition and to the Chairman of the Board and to all members of the management override of controls the Committee Committee: and considered the presumed risks of fraud as defined by auditing standards and was content that there were no | conducted a one-to-one meeting with the Head of issues arising: and Internal Audit, approved the internal audit programme and reviewed quarterly reports by the Head of Internal Audit.
| Financial statements the Committee considered the presentation of the Annual Report and Accounts, and in The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the AGM particular, the analysis between underlying and statutory to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
We were satisfied with managements Andrew Allner presentation.
Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee External auditor 27 June 2016 The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the appointment of the external auditor.
In making this recommendation, the Committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors which may impact upon the external auditors reappointment.
