74 | Corporate governance approach Corporate governance is very important to Nostrum and Changes in the operating structure: the Senior theBoard promotes high standards of corporate governance Management Team as a key component of its activities.
During the year ended In 2016 the Group began an internal reorganisation with the 31December 2016, the Company was subject to the aim of moving from an  organisation provisions of the September 2014 version of the UK toafunctional organisation.
As part of this process, the Corporate Governance Code the 2014 Code.
Since Executive Committee was renamed the Senior Management 1January 2017, the Company has been subject to the Team andfive functional teams were created, with the head provisions of the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate of each function becoming a member of the Senior Governance Code the 2016 Code and together with the Management Team.
The head of each function is responsible 2014 Code, the Code and will report its compliance with for leading their functional team across the entire Group.
the 2016 Code in its 2017 Annual Report.
Both the 2014 TheSenior Management Team supports the chief executive Codeand 2016 Code are publicly available on the website in making important decisions regarding the overall ofthe UK Financial Reporting Council www.
management of the Group and in respect of all Group matters that are not reserved for the Board.
Each member Please refer to pages 81-85 for a detailed explanation of the ofthe Senior Management Team reports directly to the ways in which the Company complied with each provision chiefexecutive andthe CEO reports directly to the Board.
The Company fully complied with all provisions of the 2014 Code with the exception Subject to Kai-Uwe Kessels overall responsibility in his ofthose matters set out on page 80, in respect of which capacity as Chief Executive for executive management thereasons for a divergence from the 2014 Code position aswell as human resources and QHSE matters, each isexplained.
member of the Senior Management Team has specific functional authority and responsibilities for the management The Board considers all of its non-executive directors, of the Group as follows: otherthan Piet Everaert and Pankaj Jain, to be independent Senior Management within the meaning of such term as defined in the Code.
Team Member Functional area PietEveraert and Pankaj Jain are not deemed to be Tom Richardson Finance including: independent as a result of having been nominated by Corporate Finance Claremont Holdings C. V. a Dutch limited partnership Investor Relations indirectly controlled byFrank Monstrey, the chairman of Economic Analysis theCompany, and hisspouse and Mayfair Investments B. V. Public Relations Mayfair, respectively, who are two of the largest External Communications shareholders in theCompany.
Accounting and Reporting Tax The Code recommends that the Board should appoint one Budget and Control ofits independent non-executive directors to act in the Insurance capacity of senior independent director.
Eike von der Linden Treasury and Cash Management served insuch capacity until 31 December 2016 when he Liaise with Internal Audit resigned from the Board and Mark Martin replaced him as Risk Management senior independent director.
ICT Sergey Khafizov Business Development, including: The Board has appointed an audit committee, a Preparation and implementation remuneration committee and a nomination and governance ofE&P strategy committee.
The members of these committees are appointed Asset portfolio management principally from among the independent directors and all Hydrocarbon reserves management appointments to these committees are for a period of one Geological exploration and analysis year.
The terms of reference of the various committees have Geophysical analysis been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Transaction management Codeand other applicable guidance and are available for Peer analysis download from our website.
Market intelligence Each committee and each director has the authority to seekindependent professional advice where necessary todischarge their respective duties, in each case at the Companys expense.
In addition, each director and committee has access to the advice of the Company Secretary, Thomas Hartnett.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures S C e n h i o i r e f M a E n x a | 75 The Senior Management Team meets on a weekly basis.
Senior Management Team Member Functional area The chairman of the Board is not a member of the Senior Heinz Wendel Operations, including: Management Team but has a standing invitation to attend General management of production meetings of the Senior Management Team and the chief site executive may invite other members of management to Production engineering and attend such meetings as appropriate.
reservoirmanagement Drilling and workover management Production Governance framework Engineering and construction fieldoperations Relations with governmental Remuneration authorities Committee Procurement Nomination Audit Research and development & Governance Committee Committee Security Administration Licensing 1 Berik Brekeshev Sales and Marketing, including: Sales Oil & Gas Products Marketing Logistics and Transportation Board Thomas Hartnett Legal, including: Legal Matters Compliance Corporate Governance Company Administration Internal communications 1 Mr Brekeshev resigned as Chief Commercial Officer on 13 January 2017.
Arkadi Epifanov has assumed Mr Brekeshevs responsibilities on a temporary basis until a suitable successor is appointed.
Each member of the Senior Management Team has functional management authority over the respective organisational units and areas within the Group listed next to their name in the above table.
Their ongoing responsibilities include ensuring that goals and objectives are aligned How the Board works withthe Groups overall strategy and vision.
Functional The Board schedules at least four regular meetings during responsibilities of Senior Management Team members the course of the year and in addition meets when intheir respective areas include but are not limited to: appropriate to review trading performance, budgets and funding, set and monitor strategy, examine acquisition implementing decisions taken by the chief executive opportunities and report to shareholders.
withintheir functional team: tracking business processes and managing tasks: The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved allocating resources to achieve better efficiency within foritsdecision which cover decisions relating to: theirfunctional area: identifying and addressing inefficiencies, establishing strategy and management: standards and best practices: structure and capital: providing direction to employees within their functional financial reporting and controls: team: internal controls: providing professional guidance, training and career contracts and expenditure: development within their functional team: communication: reviewing performance of functional team members and Board membership and other appointments: making recommendations to line managers regarding remuneration: employee performance and remuneration: and delegation of authority: working together with line managers and promoting corporate governance matters: and cross-functional integration.
approval of certain Group policies.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 g e e c m u e t i n t v T e e a m 76 | Corporate governance approach continued The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed Board diversity annually and is available on our website.
Other specific The Board has due regard for the importance of, and benefits responsibilities are delegated to Board committees and from, diversity in its membership, including gender diversity, tothe members of the Senior Management Team.
and strives to maintain an appropriate balance on the Board.
The Board is comprised of individuals with diverse sectoral The Board is responsible for considering all important experience, ages, geographic and ethnic origin and gender.
management and policy matters in relation to the Company and the Group and has the powers and duties set out in As mentioned in our 2015 Annual Report, the Nomination therelevant laws of England and Wales and the Companys and Governance Committee, together with the chairman, articles of association.
dedicated a significant amount of time during 2015 and 2016 to identifying a suitable female Board candidate to replace The key responsibilities of the Board include: one of the Companys non-executive directors in 2016 and on17 November 2016, Kaat Van Hecke was appointed as setting the Companys strategic aims: anindependent non-executive director with effect from ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources 31December 2016.
On the same date, the Nomination and are in place for the Company to meet its objectives: Governance Committee proposed that Eike von der Linden, reviewing Group management performance: and as the longest serving independent non-executive director setting the Groups values and standards to ensure that on the Board when taking into account his service as itsobligations to all shareholders are understood and met.
aDirector on the Board of Nostrums predecessor entity sinceNovember 2007 step down from the Board effective Board composition 31December 2016 in order to make room for Mrs Van Hecke The Board consists of nine directors.
As at 31 December and Mr von der Linden graciously agreed to do so.
2016, in addition to the Chairman, Frank Monstrey, there weretwo executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Following the appointment of Mrs Van Hecke, the Company has 11% female representation on its Board and will continue Within the Board, the roles of chairman and chief executive to monitor its approach to gender diversity on a regular basis.
are separate, with each having distinct and clearly defined responsibilities.
The chairman, Frank Monstrey, is responsible Appointment and tenure for leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness All executive directors have service agreements with the in all aspects of its role.
The chairman sets the agenda for Company and all non-executive directors have letters of Board meetings in consultation with the chief executive, the appointment with the Company.
For all executive directors chief financial officer and the chief legal officer and company there is no term limit on their services, as the Company secretary.
The chairman is also responsible for ensuring that proposes all executive directors for annual re-election at the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information eachsubsequent Annual General Meeting of the Company.
and that there is effective communication with the directors.
The chief executive provides leadership to the Group, which The appointment of the majority of the non-executive enables the successful planning and execution of the directors commenced on 19 May 2014, except for Kaat Van objectives and strategies agreed by the Board.
The chief Hecke whose appointment commenced on 31 December executive is also responsible for care of the Groups assets 2016.
Each appointment is for an initial term of three years, and, jointly with the chairman, representation of the Group subject to being re-elected as a director at each subsequent tothird parties.
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors do not set a fixed Mark Martin as senior independent director provides time commitment as it is anticipated that the time required asounding board for the chairman and serves as an ofdirectors may fluctuate depending on the demands of the intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
He is Companys business and other events.
It is expected that available should the need arise to convey concerns to the directors will allocate sufficient time to the Company in order Board other than through the chairman or the chief executive.
to discharge their duties effectively.
The Company intends toenter into new letters of appointment with all those The Boards Nomination and Governance Committee keeps non-executive directors whose appointments commenced the balance, independence and succession plans of the on 19May 2014 and whose three-year terms will therefore Board under review so as to maintain an appropriate balance expire on 19 May 2017, subject to their re-election at the of skills and experience within the Company and on the Annual General Meeting.
Board in accordance with the Code.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 77 Copies of the service agreements of the executive directors The main aspects of the Boards work which we feel offer and the letters of appointment for the non-executive scope for further development include: directors are available for inspection at the Companys Succession planning should be increased for executive registered office and will also be available for inspection andnon-executive directors.
This has been adopted as atthe Annual General Meeting.
anaction item for the Board, together with the Nomination and Governance Committee, during 2017.
Company Secretary Improvements can be made in the format and timing The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the ofdistribution of Board materials.
This issue has been Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
discussed between the company secretary, the chairman Alldirectors have access to the advice and services of the and the Board and it was noted that a procedure for the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring Board earlier dissemination of Board materials was implemented procedures are complied with and that there is a good flow during 2016 and that the Groups new functional ofinformation between the Board and its committees.
organisation should assist with ensuring that Board Theappointment of the Company Secretary is a matter materials are delivered sufficiently in advance of Board reserved for the Board as a whole.
More time should be spent discussing and debating key Conflicts of interest decisions at Board level and further efforts should be made A director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she to increase the involvement of the non-executive directors has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts in decision making.
orpossibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
There should be further definition around risk strategy Formal procedures are in place to ensure that the Boards anda better overview of the control and risk management powers of authorisation of conflicts or potential conflicts of framework.
Senior management has adopted this as an interest of directors are operated effectively.
The Board is action item for 2017 with the aim of providing the Board satisfied that during 2016 these procedures were enforced with more exposure to senior risk owners and with a clearer and adhered to appropriately.
risk analysis to facilitate more informed decision-making.
Board evaluation The Company intends to conduct an internal Board selfIn June 2016, the Boards review of its effectiveness was evaluation during 2017. facilitated by Independent Board Review, a division of Independent Audit Limited, using their online assessment Director induction and training service Thinking Board.
Their facilitation helped ensure Each individual joining the Board receives a full, formal thatthe Companys review was rigorous and covered induction package with materials on the Groups business theimportant influences on the Boards effectiveness.
and operational, financial and legal matters.
They also meet Asindependent advisors, they discussed with the Board with members of the Board in order to obtain a good thefocus and coverage of our Board and committee understanding of the challenges and opportunities faced by questionnaires, administered the questionnaires on the Group.
The Directors are given the opportunity to discuss aconfidential basis, analysed the results independently their training and professional development needs at every fromthe Board and management and presented the findings quarterly Board meeting and on an ad hoc basis as required, and their suggestions in a paper which was discussed with and to make recommendations to the chairman regarding the Company Secretary and provided to all directors.
topics on which they would like to receive training.
Independent Board Review also attended the August quarterly Board meeting to share their views on the issues The Board was given training at the May quarterly Board raised through the self-assessment.
The Company confirms meeting on the new requirements of the European Market that neither Independent Board Review nor Independent 1 Abuse Regulation MAR and, in particular, the impact Audit Limited have any other connection with the Company.
MARhas on dealings by directors in Company securities, thedisclosure of inside information and market soundings.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 78 | Corporate governance approach continued A geology and reservoir workshop was also held for the Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Board in September 2016 in Belgium.
The workshop lasted Meeting to discuss the progress of the Group.
Our Annual one day and covered topics such as certain regional field General Meeting is open to all our shareholders to attend studies, production forecasts, and exploration and appraisal and advance notice of the time, date and location is given.
activities together with the results of the Groups 2016 Itprovides an opportunity for shareholders to meet with and RyderScott Competent Persons Report.
ask questions of the Board in a more informal environment.
In addition to training organised by the Company, the Policies directors regularly attend training events organised by Following the coming into force of MAR in July 2016, the thirdparties and the Company actively encourages directors Company updated its share dealing code which applies to attend such events.
tothe directors, senior management and other relevant employees of the Group, and its inside information and Shareholder engagement disclosure policy which applies to all entities within the Group Nostrum is in regular contact with its shareholders and and all of their employees.
The Company also implemented sell-side analysts and maintains an active and transparent anew market sounding policy to take account of the new dialogue with them throughout the year.
We keep all existing market sounding regime implemented by MAR.
The market and prospective investors abreast of Company news by sounding policy applies to any employee that is authorised issuing regular operational and financial press releases by the chairman to conduct market soundings on behalf of viatheLondon Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service, the Company.
aswell as on Nostrums website.
Additionally, each of our quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results are In 2016, the Company also updated its code of conduct to accompanied by a conference call for investors and analysts include provisions regarding slavery and human trafficking to hear from Nostrums senior management.
Russian forthe purposes of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Further translations of all press releases and financial reports information regarding the steps the Company has taken to together with a variety of other shareholder information ensure there is no slavery or human trafficking in its supply arealso available on our website.
chains can be found in our statement on slavery and human trafficking which is available on our website www.
We respond to daily queries from existing and prospective shareholders and sell-side analysts through our Investor Bribery and corruption are significant risks in the oil and gas Relations team.
Our registrars, Capita Asset Services, industry and as such the Company operates a Group-wide alsohave a team who respond to any technical queries anti-corruption and bribery policy, which applies to all Group shareholders have regarding their holdings in the Company.
The policy requires annual Extensive information is available on our website, where bribery and corruption risk assessments: risk-based due shareholders or those with an interest in the Group can log diligence on all parties with whom the Company does their details to receive email updates.
business: appropriate anti-bribery and corruption clauses in contracts: and the training of personnel in anti-bribery and Nostrum attends investor conferences and industry forums corruption measures.
In addition, the Companys code of throughout the year and we publish a list of these in advance conduct requires that employees or others working on behalf on the investor relations section of our website.
We are of the Company do not engage in bribery or corruption in available for ad hoc shareholder meetings with management any form.
Over the past year, the Investor Relations team and management met with over 100 investors To assist with compliance with the related party rules through face-to-face meetings, roadshows, conferences and contained in Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules, the Group has other corporate events.
The chairman and chief financial implemented a related party transaction policy that applies officer, in particular, regularly meet with major investors and whenever a Group entity is involved in a transaction with analysts and provide feedback on any shareholder concerns Group directors or substantial shareholders and or their or views to the Board.
The policy sets out the procedural steps that must be followed before the Group can enter into a related party transaction.
The overall aim of the policy is to prevent such related parties from taking advantage of their position when involved in transactions with the Group.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 79 The Company has also adopted a whistle-blowing policy that Attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees takes account of the Whistle-blowing Arrangements Code of inthe 2016 financial year Practice issued by the British Standards Institute and Public Nomination & Concern at Work.
An employee raised one matter under the Audit Remuneration Governance Companys whistle-blowing policy in 2016 and, upon receipt Board Committee Committee Committee of this request, the Company followed the review procedures A B A B A B A B contained in the whistle-blowing policy and a full report Executive directors detailing the outcomes of the investigation was presented Frank 5 5 4 4 tothe Audit Committee.
The outcome of the investigation Monstrey was that there was no evidence of workplace wrongdoing by the person named in the disclosure.
Kai-Uwe 5 5 Kessel Board committees Jan-Ru 4 3 1 The Board has established a nomination and governance Muller committee, an audit committee and a remuneration Tom 1 1 committee.
Further details on each of these committees 2 Richardson canbe found in their reports on pages 86-111.
The terms Non-executive directors ofreference of each of these committees can be found on Eike von der 5 5 6 6 4 4 4 4 our website at www.
3 Linden Piet Everaert 5 5 The committees are provided with all necessary resources to 4 enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
Atul Gupta 5 5 6 5 The company secretary acts as secretary to the committees.
5 Pankaj Jain 5 3 The minutes of committee meetings are circulated to all 6 7 Mark Martin 5 5 0 4 4 directors.
Sir 5 5 6 6 4 4 4 4 Christopher Meetings of the Board and its committees are generally Codrington, scheduled for March, May, August and November each year.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of Kaat Van 0 0 0 another engagement are provided with the briefing materials 9 Hecke and can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the chairman or the chief executive.
In addition to scheduled A Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
B Total number of meetings the director did attend.
Board meetings, other ad hoc meetings are called throughout the year to deal with specific matters as and 1 Mr Muller resigned as a director with effect from 1 September 2016. whenthey arise.
2 Mr Richardson was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2016.
3 Mr von der Linden resigned as a director and as Chairman of the AuditCommittee with effect from 31 December 2016.
4 Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 31 December 2016.
5 Mr Jain was unable to attend two Board meetings in 2016 due tootherconflicting business engagements.
6 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
7 Appointed as a member of the Audit Committee on 31 December 2016.
8 Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
9 M rs Van Hecke was appointed to the Board on 31 December 2016.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 80 | Corporate governance approach continued Compliance with the 2014 version of the UK Corporate D. 2.1 Until 22 March 2016, the Companys remuneration Governance Code committee consisted of three independent non-executive Nostrum fully complied throughout 2016 with the provisions directors Mark Martin, Eike von der Linden and of the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code SirChristopher Codrington, Bt.
and one non-independent the Code except in the following respects: non-executive director Piet Everaert.
3.1 The chairman does not meet the independence Provision D. 2.1 of the Code provides that the Remuneration criteriaset out in B.
1.1 of the Code, in part given his executive Committee must include at least three independent position in the Company.
Companies owned and controlled non-executive directors and the Companys remuneration by the chairman acquired the Groups assets outright in committee meets such requirement.
However, the Company 2004and the chairman has been a leading driver behind understands that the most common interpretation of thesuccessful development of the business since that date.
provision D. 2.1 of the Code is that any additional director Assuch, the other members of the Board consider that the appointed as a member of the committee must also be chairmans continued involvement as an executive director is anindependent non-executive director and that if such important for the future of the business, given the chairmans interpretation is correct, Mr Everaerts membership of the experience and expertise in the development of the Groups Remuneration Committee did not comply with provision oil and gas assets in Kazakhstan.
1.2 Given that the chairman fulfils an executive role and Therefore on 22 March 2016, Mr Everaert resigned from PietEveraert and Pankaj Jain are not categorised as theRemuneration Committee so that the composition independent directors as a result of having been nominated oftheCommittee would unequivocally comply with Provision by Claremont Holdings C. V. and Mayfair Investments B. V. D. 2.1 of the Code.
Mayfair, respectively, five of the nine directors on the Board are not considered independent for the purposes E. 2.3 All directors did not attend the 2016 Annual General ofthe Code.
Mayfair, whilst not considered independent Meeting, however those directors who did not attend were forthe purposes of the Code, is independent of the other available by teleconference to answer questions from shareholders in the Company.
Mayfair has no alignment with shareholders.
any other major shareholder and hence Mayfairs nominee tothe Board is considered to be independent in character We describe how we have applied the main principles of the and judgement with no relationships that directly affect his 2014 Code in the following table, cross-referencing to other judgement and no single group is therefore able to exercise parts of this Annual Report.
The table helps us to evaluate majority influence over the Board as a whole.
In order to ourcompliance during the year and should be read in provide additional protections to the Company in respect of conjunction with the Corporate Governance section as these areas of non-compliance with the Code, the Company awhole.
Headings in the table correspond to the headings has entered into relationship agreements with each of inthe Code.
Claremont Holdings C. V. and KazStroyService Global B. V. KSS Global.
On 30 January 2015 Mayfair an affiliate of KSS Global acquired 48,333,300 ordinary shares in the Company from KSS Global and pursuant to a deed of adherence of thesame date undertook to the Company tobe bound by the terms ofthe relationship agreement previously signed between theCompany and KSS Global and to observe andperform allofthe provisions and obligations of such relationship agreement in so far as they fall to be observed orperformed on or after the date of thetransfer.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 81 A.
2 Division of responsibilities The Boards responsibilities are set out in the section Frank Monstrey, the chairman, is responsible for leading entitled How the Board Works on page 75 of the Annual the Board while Kai-Uwe Kessel, the chief executive, is Report.
The identities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
Senior Independent Director and chairmen of the Further details of the roles of chairman and chief executive committees are given on pages 70-72. can be found on page 76 of the Annual Report.
The Board met formally five times during 2016.
All directors are, where possible, expected to attend all Board and relevant committee meetings.
Details of Board meeting attendance for the year are set out on page 79 of the AnnualReport.
The Board has approved certain policies including a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, a delegation ofsignature authority policy and an internal approvals policy which delegates the approval of certain matters tothe Senior Management Team and or certain of its members.
Further information can be found on page 78 ofthe Annual Report.
4 Non-executive directors The chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings and With effect from 31 December 2016, the Board appointed promotes a culture of openness and debate by ensuring Mark Martin to replace Mr von der Linden as senior there is effective communication between executive and independent director.
Mr Martin provides a communication non-executive directors.
channel between the chairman and the non-executive directors.
Further information regarding MrMartins role As explained in more detail on page 80 of the Annual can be found on page 76 of the Annual Report.
Report the chairman does not meet the independence criteria set out in provision B.
The chairman is available to the non-executive directors and often attends meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in the absence of the other executive directors.
The Nomination and Governance Committee Report can be found on pages 92-93 of the Annual Report.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 82 | Corporate governance approach continued B.
1 The composition of the Board B.
2 Appointments to the Board The Board consists of nine directors: three executive The Nomination and Governance Committee leads directors, four independent non-executive directors theappointment of new directors.
The report of the andtwo non-executive directors who are not considered Nomination and Governance Committee can be found independent for the purposes of the Code.
Therefore, as onpages 92-93 of the Annual Report and provides an explained in further detail on page 80 of the Annual Report, overview of what the committee has done during the year.
the current composition of the Board does not comply The Nomination and Governance Committee terms of withprovision B.
1.1 of the Code as five of the nine directors reference can be found at: www.
com onthe Board are not considered independent.
The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible A majority of members of the Nomination and Governance for regularly reviewing the composition of the Board.
Committee are independent and Sir Christopher During2016, two changes were made to the composition Codrington, Bt.
in his capacity as an independent nonofthe Board further details of which can be found in the executive director is chairperson of the committee.
chairmans overview on page 69 and the Nomination All directors are subject to annual re-election at the andGovernance Committee report on pages 92-93.
4 Development Details of the chairmans other significant commitments are Details of director induction and training are provided on set out in his biography on page 70 of the Annual Report.
pages 77-78 of the Annual Report.
The Board is regularly Directors are required to report any changes to their reminded that they can make suggestions to the chairman commitments to the Board.
regarding any training and development needs.
The executive directors service contracts and the nonexecutive directors letters of appointment are available forinspection at the Companys registered office and willbeavailable for inspection at the Companys annual generalmeeting.
Non-executive directors are advised of the time commitment expected from them on appointment and byaccepting their appointment non-executive directors undertake that they will be able to allocate sufficient time tomeet the time commitment required of the role.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 83 B.
6 Evaluation The Company has an agreed procedure for directors to The Board and its committees undertook an externally takeindependent professional advice at the expense of facilitated self-evaluation during 2016, further details of theCompany which is managed by the company secretary.
which can be found on page 77.
No such independent advice was sought in the 2016 financial year.
The company secretary assists the chairman by organising induction and training programmes and is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed.
The company secretary also assists the chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
The removal of the company secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
7 Re-election All directors were subject to shareholder election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, as will be the case at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The biographies for all oftheCompanys directors can be found on pages 70-72 ofthe Annual Report.
C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and business reporting C. 2 Risk management and internal control The directors statement of responsibility regarding the An overview of the Companys principal risks and financial statements is set out on page 119 of the Annual uncertainties can be found on pages 53-59 of the Annual Report.
The directors going concern statement is given Report.
onpage 117 of the Annual Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the The statement from the Companys auditor regarding significant risks that may affect the Group in achieving its itsreporting responsibilities is set out on page 130 of strategic objectives.
More details on this matter together theAnnual Report.
with details of how the Audit Committee, internal audit manager and senior management of the Group assist the Details of the Companys business model can be found Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk can be onpage 14. found in the Risk Management section of the Annual Report on pages 50-52.
The directors viability statement can be found on page 60 of the Annual Report.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 84 | Corporate governance approach continued C. Accountability C. 3 Audit committee and auditors The Board has delegated a number of functions to the AuditCommittee which are explained in more detail in theAudit Committee report which can be found on pages86-91 ofthe Annual Report and in the terms of reference fortheAudit Committee which can be found at: www.
Regular updates are provided to the Board by the Audit Committee chairman.
The Audit Committee consists of at least three independent directors.
The chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee.
D. Remuneration D. 1 The level and components of remuneration D. 2 Procedure The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Since Mr Everaerts resignation as a member of the Groups remuneration policy.
For further information see Remuneration Committee, the Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee report on pages 96-105 of has consisted entirely of independent non-executive the Annual Report and the directors remuneration policy directors.
Further details can be found on page 96 ofthe which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 Annual Annual Report.
General Meeting on pages 106-111 of the Annual Report.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities tothe Remuneration Committee including determining theremuneration of the chairman, the chief executive, thechieffinancial officer, the company secretary and the seniormanagement team.
Full details are set out in the Remuneration Committee terms of reference which canbefound at: www.
The chairman, the chief executive and the chief financial officer determine the remuneration of all non-executive directors, including members of the committees.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 85 E. Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders E. 2 Constructive use of General Meetings The Board seeks to engage with shareholders regularly The Companys Annual General Meeting provides andthe chairman seeks to ensure that the Board is kept shareholders with the opportunity to vote on certain aspects appraised of shareholder views.
of the Groups business and to speak with the directors.
Further information regarding shareholder engagement Voting on all resolutions at the Annual General Meeting can be found on page 78 of the Annual Report.
The proxy votes cast, including details of the votes withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results are published on the Companys website and via the Regulatory News Service.
A copy of the notice of the Annual General Meeting willbeposted on our website and sent by post to those shareholders who have not opted-in to electronic communications at least twenty working days before theAnnual General Meeting.
As all directors did not attend the Companys 2016 Annual General Meeting, the Company did not comply with Provisions E. 2.3 of the Code.
However, those directors thatcould not attend were available via teleconference toanswer any questions.
The corporate governance approach has been approved by the Board Kai-Uwe Kessel Tom Richardson Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 27 March 2017 27 March 2017 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
