com stock code: NTG Corporate governance We recognise the vital role that good governance plays in delivering the best outcomes for all stakeholders in the business.
Furthermore, UK Listed Companies are required by 2 the FCA the designated UK Listing Authority, to include a 1 statement in their annual accounts on compliance with the Leadership Eectiveness principles of good corporate governance and code of best practice set out in the Code.
The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are divided into five parts, as set out below: 5 3 1. leadership Relations with Accountability The business is managed by the Board of Directors currently Shareholders comprising two executive and five non-executive Directors, details of whom are shown on pages 52 and 53.
4 The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
Remuneration An overview of the leadership of the Group, including the responsibilities and activities of each component is outlined in the Introduction to Governance on pages 55 to 57.
Effectiveness Director appointments Information supplied The Nominations Committee is responsible for the composition The Chairman ensures that all Directors are appropriately briefed to enable them to discharge their duties.
Management of the Board including the selection and appointment of new Directors.
A summary of the work of this Committee is accounts are prepared and submitted to the Board on a monthly basis.
Before each Board meeting appropriate outlined on page 57. documentation on all items to be discussed is circulated.
There is a formal induction process for new Directors facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Before appointment non-executive Directors are required to assure the Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to properly Attendance fulfil their duties, both in terms of meeting attendance and Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings preparation time.
during the year is detailed as follows: Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations No.
of meetings 9 4 7 2 AJ Allner 1 JG Astrand Max 3 G Caseberry RL Contreras 2 P Gallagher Max 2 3 RD Mackenzie Max 3 4 C Miles Max 5 5 CJR Muir Max 6 A Page 1 Resigned from the Board on 17 September 2015 The external auditor and the Head of Group Internal Audit 2 Appointed to the Board on 22 February 2016 attended all Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
3 Resigned from the Board on 17 September 2015 Andrew Allner will have completed nine years service as a 4 Appointed to the Board on 27 November 2015 non-executive director of the Company in September 2016, 5 Resigned from the Board on 22 February 2016 at which time he will no longer be regarded as independent All Directors in office at that time were present at the AGM in terms of the Code or by the ABI.
As recently announced, held in September 2015. it is the Boards intention that Bill Spencer, appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on 1 June 2016, will assume the roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 October 2016.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE 58 59 Board review The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own To assist this, and to drive performance and best practice in performance, and that of its Committees and individual a number of areas, a new Group structure was put in place Directors during the year.
The Code requires that the Company in January 2016, with a separate UK Managing Director a conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every three role previously undertaken by the Group CEO, the hiring of years but, following the appointment of a new Chairman, it UK Sales and Marketing Directors, and the appointment of was decided to bring forward the date of the next external a new Operations Director.
This team now forms part of the evaluation, and that it should again be facilitated by Duncan Group Executive Committee involving the Spanish and Irish Reed of Condign Board Consulting Ltd, as it was in 2014.
This management, which meets monthly.
was to provide continuity of perspective, and to allow changes Recommendations which will be implemented following the to be assessed and placed in their proper context.
Condign is 2016 Board performance evaluation were made and then a firm which specialises in board effectiveness work.
Neither agreed under the headings of vision and strategy, people and Mr Reed nor Condign have any other connection with the succession, and communications.
They include making time available for the Board to discuss The evaluation process consisted of a structured interview with a more strategic forward agenda planner, to ensure that the Chairman, each Director, the Company Secretary and the the right topics are being covered at the right times, to Managing Directors of the Spanish and UK businesses, with an flag opportunities for further input from the Directors, and outline of the agreed topics to be covered in the interview sent to ensure that strategic objectives are being pursued and to each in advance.
The evaluation also included the review monitored.
The Board will also receive more regular reporting of relevant Board papers, and Mr Reed attended the January on HR matters such as employee engagement, cultural change Board meeting prior to the Strategy Day.
The outcome of the and personnel development, as well as succession planning review was discussed with the Chairman, the full report then for key roles.
The Board will also see more of the key line shared with all of the Directors, and then Mr Reed presented managers in the business through the year, in parallel with it in person, and facilitated a discussion about it, before the arrangements for the Group Executive Committee to meet April Board meeting, where he was also available for questions monthly, and for the CEO to have fortnightly calls with his pertaining to it.
The review concluded that Board governance was still in good The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent repair, and that the Board itself though much changed Director, will shortly evaluate the early performance of the due to director rotation and retirement remained notably Chairman in his role, using input from the externally facilitated commercial and business-focused.
The Chairman will do the same in relation to constructive naturecontinue to be had, against the backdrop each of the Directors.
The Board continues to believe that of a changed boardroom environment and challenging market the Directors have strongly relevant experience to the Group expectations.
and its businesses, and contribute multiple perspectives and, importantly, ongoing independent judgement.
The engagement by the new Board with strategy development at a Group level was again highlighted and now accepted as an urgent priority.
It was agreed that personnel change at executive and non-executive level had had an impact on progress in this area over the last two years.
com stock code: NTG Corporate governance CONTINUED Diversity prior year, with review by management of variance from targeted performance levels.
The Board has considered the recommendations of the Davies Review into Women on Boards in the light of the provisions of These commentaries are consolidated into the pack submitted both section B.
2 of the Code, with which we are compliant, to the Board.
Year to date actuals are used to guide forecasts, and of our existing policies and procedures.
which are updated regularly and communicated to the Board.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity at Planning all levels of the business and in order to reinforce Each reporting segment prepares a three year Business Plan the Boards commitment to equality, the Board has on an annual basis.
This is presented to and approved by endorsed an Equal Opportunities Policy, which may be the Board.
Performance against these plans is reviewed on a found on our website www.
Whilst the overriding criteria for Board appointments will Assurance always be based on merit, so as to encourage an appropriate An account of the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board at included within the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee all times, for all future appointments we will only use executive on pages 60 to 63.
Both the external auditor and Head of search firms who have committed to the Voluntary Code of Internal Audit report directly to the Committee.
Remuneration At the same time the Board recognises that, particularly Details of the Companys remuneration policy and the given the nature of its business, the development of a pool remuneration of each Director are given in the Remuneration of suitably qualified candidates may take time to achieve and Report on pages 64 to 74. therefore does not believe it is appropriate to set targets, 5.
Relations with shareholders however aspirational, at the present time.
Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular At 30 April 2016 33% of Board members were female.
In dialogue with institutional investors and brokers analysts, the senior management team 13% are female and for all providing them with such information on the Companys employees this figure is 30%.
progress and future plans as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the time of Conflicts of interest announcing the Companys half and full year results, they are Pursuant to those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Group relating to conflicts of interest and in accordance with the Finance Director.
authority contained in the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has put in place procedures to deal with the The Companys major institutional shareholders have been notification, authorisation, recording and monitoring of advised by the Chief Executive that, in line with the provisions Directors conflicts of interest and these procedures have of the Code, the Senior Independent Director and other nonoperated effectively throughout the year and to the date of executives may attend these briefings and, in any event, would signing of this report and accounts.
attend if requested to do so.
Accountability All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for Although no system of internal controls can provide absolute discussion at the AGM, of which more than the recommended assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups minimum 20 working days notice is given.
system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable Details of proxies lodged in respect of the AGM will be assurance that, should any problems occur, these are identified published on the Companys website immediately following on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
Internal control Significant interests in shares are detailed on page 75.
Confirmation that the Board has performed an assessment of the risk management and internal control systems of the Compliance with the Code Group, as required by the Code provision C. 2.3, is contained in The Board considers that the Company complied with the the Managing risk report on pages 38 to 42. provisions on the Code throughout the year, with the exception of provision C. 3.1.
Up until the appointment of Claire Miles in Whistleblowing hotline November 2015 the Audit and Risk Committee comprised two The Board has established a confidential telephone service, independent non-executive Directors, rather than three.
Upon operated by an independent external organisation, which may appointment to the Board Claire was appointed to the Audit be used by all staff to report any issues of concern relating to and Risk Committee and therefore since November 2015 and up dishonesty or malpractice within the Group.
All issues reported until the date of this report C. 3.1 has been complied with.
are investigated by senior management and Internal Audit as appropriate.
D Henderson Secretary Information and communication 27 June 2016 Each reporting segment prepares monthly management accounts with a comparison against their business plan and 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6
