Governance Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 16.
Board of Directors 48 Lord Rose Tim Steiner, OBE Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman, 67 Chief Executive Officer, 47 Chief Financial Officer, 51 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 11 March 2013 13 April 2000 1 September 2012 Committee Membership Relevant Experience External Appointments Nomination Chairman Tim is the founding Chief Executive Officer of Ocado, Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee External Appointments which he started in 2000.
Prior to Ocado, he spent eight Chairman of Zoopla Property Group plc Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited: Chairman of Oasis years as a banker at Goldman Sachs, during which time Relevant Experience Healthcare Limited: Chairman of Stylemania Limited, he was based in London, Hong Kong and New York in the Prior to joining Ocado, Duncan was Chief Financial trading as Dressipi: Non-Executive Director of RM2 Fixed Income division.
Tim graduated from Manchester Officer of Fitness First plc, and previously Group Finance International S. A. : Non-Executive Director of Woolworths University in 1992 with an honours degree in Economics, Director of Kingfisher plc, one of the worlds largest home Holdings Limited, listed in South Africa: Chairman of Majid Finance and Accountancy.
He has also been Finance Director Al Futtaim Retail based in Dubai: Non-Executive Director of of B&Q plc, Chief Financial Officer of Virgin Entertainment Time Out Group plc Group and held various senior finance positions at Relevant Experience Burton Group Plc.
Duncan holds a masters degree in Lord Rose has worked in retail for over 40 years.
He has Engineering from Kings College, Cambridge.
He is also held Chief Executive Officer positions at Argos plc, Booker a member of the Chartered Institute of Management plc, Arcadia Group plc and Marks and Spencer plc.
Chairman of Marks and Spencer plc from 2008 to 2011.
Lord Rose was knighted in 2008 for services to the retail industry and corporate social responsibility, and granted a life peerage in August 2014.
Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Alex Mahon Group General Counsel and Non-Executive Director and Chief Operations Officer, 52 Company Secretary, 52 Senior Independent Director, 43 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 February 2012 1 June 2012 8 September 2000 External Appointments Committee Membership External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Paneltex Limited Audit, Nomination Non-Executive Director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed Relevant Experience External Appointments in South Africa Mark was Head of Technology at Ocado from 2001 until Chief Executive Officer of The Foundry Visionmongers Relevant Experience he joined the Board in 2012.
He is responsible for the Limited, trading as The Foundry: Non-Executive Director Neill has been a Director since 2000, having advised day-to-day running of the Ocado operation, including of the Edinburgh TV Festival Ocado since its founding.
He has Board responsibility CFCs, logistics developments, customer service, business Relevant Experience for legal, insurance, risk management, human resources planning, engineering and technology.
Mark is a Director Alex was appointed the Chief Executive Officer of the and Corporate Responsibility.
Prior to Ocado, he was a of Paneltex Limited, a company in which the Group holds leading design and visual effects software firm, The barrister in practice at One Essex Court and spent nine a 25% shareholding.
Prior to joining Ocado, Mark held Foundry, in November 2015.
Alex was previously CEO years at Goldman Sachs in London in the investment a number of IT positions at the John Lewis Partnership, of Shine Group, a global television content production banking and legal divisions.
Neill holds degrees in including Head of Selling Systems at Waitrose.
He company and before Shine Group, Alex spent seven industrial psychology and law from the University of the graduated from University College, London with a degree years in the television industry at talkbackTHAMES, Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and a Masters in Law in Physics.
Previously she worked from Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
He is a member in the Internet sector as a consultant.
She holds a Physics of the Bar of England and Wales, the New York Bar and a degree from Imperial College, London and a Physics PhD South Africa Advocate.
from Imperial College and the Institute of Cancer Research.
slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Governance 49 Douglas McCallum Ruth Anderson Jrn Rausing Non-Executive Director, 50 Non-Executive Director, 63 Non-Executive Director, 56 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 9 March 2010 3 October 2011 13 March 2003 Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Nomination Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Nomination External Appointments External Appointments External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc: NonChairman of Trainline and PhotoBox: Founder and Group Board Member of Tetra Laval: Board Member of Executive Director of Coats Group plc: Trustee and President of eBay for Charity Alfa Laval AB: Board Member of DeLaval Holding AB: Director of The Royal Parks: Trustee of The Duke of Relevant Experience Member of the Board of Governors of the Museum of Edinburghs Award Douglas has been a pioneer of the Internet industry for London Relevant Experience a number of years, having been at eBay Inc. from 2001 Relevant Experience Since retiring from KPMG seven years ago Ruth has gained to 2014, where he led the UK business and then turned Jrn has over 25 years experience in corporate non-executive director experience at three UK listed around the pan-European business.
Prior to joining eBay development and international mergers and acquisitions.
companies and chairs the audit committee at all three.
Inc. he was founder and general manager of a number Jrn holds a degree in Business Administration from She was a vice-chairman of the accounting and advisory of businesses in the Internet, broadcasting, software and Lund University, Sweden.
firm KPMG in the UK from 2004 to 2009 and a member hardware industries.
Douglas read Politics, Philosophy of the KPMG UK board from 1998 to 2004.
She is a fellow and Economics at the University of Oxford, and has an of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and MBA from Harvard Business School.
Wales and a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Robert Gorrie Andrew Harrison Emma Lloyd Non-Executive Director, 57 Non-Executive Director, 46 Non-Executive Director, 47 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 1 March 2016 1 December 2016 1 April 2000 Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Nomination Nomination External Appointments External Appointments External Appointments Deputy Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone Plc: Trustee Director of Corporate Development, Partnerships and Chairman of Tyres on the Drive Limited to the charity The Mix Investments of Sky plc Relevant Experience Relevant Experience Relevant Experience Robert originally joined the Board in 2000 as Logistics Andrew was appointed Deputy Group Chief Executive of As Skys Group Director of Business Development and Strategic Director, before becoming a Non-Executive Director in Dixons Carphone Plc in August 2014.
He was previously Partnerships Emma identifies and nurtures key strategic 2006.
He was previously Group Director of Information Chief Executive Officer of Carphone Warehouse Plc.
Having relationships with Skys technology partners.
Emma has overseen Technology at Transport Development Group plc, joined in 1995, Andrew was appointed UK CEO of Carphone the creation of Skys start-up venture investment function and US where he spent ten years in a variety of commercial and Warehouse in 2001.
He led the growth of the UK business presence, leading to the investment in over 20 technology startoperational roles.
Prior to that Robert spent ten years to become the market leader in the mobile sector, and ups.
Previously Emma was Skys Director of Emerging Products, in North America with the logistics service business developed the fixed line strategy which led to the creation where she led a team that focused on identifying new product Christian Salvesen PLC, where he reached the position of the TalkTalk division.
Andrew was responsible for taking opportunities across TV, online and mobile.
In this position, she of Director of Business Development.
Robert graduated Carphone Warehouse to the US in 2006, and instrumental played a key role in the early development of Skys awardfrom Corpus Christi College, Oxford with an honours in the creation of the highly successful Best Buy Mobile JV.
winning multiplatform TV service, Sky Go.
Emma joined Sky in degree in Modern History and Economics.
From 2009 Andrew was responsible for both Carphone January 2008 as a Business Development Director.
She started Warehouse and Phone House operations, becoming her career in management consulting, where she has ten years Chief Executive Officer of the Best Buy JV in 2010.
Andrew business consulting and mobile telecommunications experience.
graduated with a BA in Management Studies from the Emma graduated with a BA Joint Hons in Management Studies University of Leeds in 1992. and Geography from the University of Leeds in 1992. slugline
