Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 78 RISKS CONTINUED Our risk strategy Risk, governance Management of The managed separation has sustainably separation-related risks.
and capital changed the plcs purpose and we have Plc Head Office is responsible for the management adopted new principles to guide our execution of the managed separation: actions and choices throughout the this has substantially changed its focus Risk and governance implementation process.
The main to evaluating the different separation framework ones are: routes and potential corporate finance Before the managed separation the activities.
We need to ensure that: All our actions must be directed towards Group was governed by a strategic our objective and aligned with these Managed separation will balance controller model that leveraged the measures of success, within the parameters the key criteria of value, cost, benefits of capital through diversification and risk appetite agreed by the plc Board time and risk and financing, by identifying: We will have to make trade-offs between The different managed separation four principal considerations: the value Contagion from one part of the paths have been assessed in terms unlocked, cost involved in delivering the Group to another of the value, time, cost and risks while strategy, the time it takes to do so, and the Areas of concentration and minimising market dependency and risks incurred or mitigated by our actions diversification of risk maintaining flexibility.
Detailed stress To maintain market confidence we must Areas where we had to satisfy legal and scenario testing is undertaken or regulatory requirements placed demonstrate meaningful action in a on the options and reassessed at on the Group by being UK-listed.
reasonable timeframe at valuations that each iteration.
are perceived to be, at a minimum, fair Following the announcement of the We are committed to treating shareholders The four businesses are sufficiently managed separation we introduced an fairly.
We will seek to communicate our well-capacitated to stand alone active portfolio manager governance intentions and plans in an open and Each businesss ability to stand alone model under which we evaluate each of the proactive manner, as appropriate in the has been evaluated.
Detailed planning context of our fiduciary obligations Groups businesses as an asset, with a view of actions to fill any gaps identified We are willing to accept short-term price to maximising value realisation through has included the setting up of transition volatility in our stock as the market digests separation.
The primary principle is that processes of skills and capabilities from each action and begins to value each the businesses will be assessed individually the plc to the individual businesses.
business and the plc appropriately and we will no longer seek diversification Completion of these actions is being We will continue to discharge our fiduciary benefits or synergies.
This new governance monitored centrally.
The transition and regulatory responsibilities in an framework has been formally updated in processes cover the management of appropriate manner.
capital and liquidity adequacy and the Groups decision-making framework.
Each business has developed its own risk the capability of the risk functions.
In practice, this has meant that the plcs strategy in line with its business strategy.
We continue to meet our relationships with the businesses have governance and regulatory become increasingly formal, particularly obligations in relation to the managed separation.
We have redefined our governance The businesses are also developing structure to give clarity on the new and enhancing the processes previously decision-making structures and due to provided or supported by the plc such the increased level of corporate activity as appointing independent chairmen, being undertaken we have enhanced defining their own values and culture and our market abuse framework.
risk appetite frameworks so that they are The plc Head Office is wound ready to be standalone businesses.
The plc down in an orderly manner still oversees these processes and monitors Plc has its own restructuring project, them centrally.
including the transition of required activities into the businesses.
Legacy items such as the pension scheme and the insurance captive have dedicated resource to ensure they are effectively closed-out.
The managed separation has increased people risk across the Group: this is being managed at both Group and local level.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 79 In 2016 the businesses developed their own the businesses business plans over Risk appetite qualitative and quantitative risk appetite the managed separation timeframe.
In light of the managed separation, we metrics reflecting their own business This allows close management of potential have developed the plcs risk appetite models, industries and risk strategies.
exposures, and lends itself to scenario framework to focus on the key metrics that These are monitored by the plc.
At both plc planning under different separation need to be carefully managed throughout and business levels we use risk appetite options and economic conditions.
limits and early warning thresholds EWTs We also undertake reverse stress testing The financial metrics capital, earnings to define the boundaries of risk taking and and specific-event scenario testing volatility and liquidity are projected over manage our risk return profile.
for example, to assess the impact of a the managed separation timeframe to give South African sovereign downgrade, a multi-year view.
Risk and control culture At the plc we calculate liquidity and capital Brexit and Trumps US election victory.
is measured by a qualitative assessment appetite limits and EWTs dynamically to All scenario testing helps us in our process focusing on the values and take account of planned transitions and decision-making processes.
behaviours embedded in the businesses that shape risk decisions.
The plcs appetite and intentions are set out below: Capital Earnings Liquidity The Group has no appetite for regulatory We accept that as part of our plc strategy The capital management policy is designed intervention during the managed of managed separation, and as our to allow for flexibility in managing liquidity separation whether perceived or real.
businesses consolidate on past expansion, during the managed separation.
As such, we hold a buffer above minimum the execution risks and earnings volatility We maintain, at the Group level, an early requirements in order to remain solvent.
warning threshold, sufficient to withstand Our key principle is that all our businesses However, we have no appetite for big a liquidity survival horizon of at least should be well-capitalised as if they were surprises: earnings volatility that cannot 12 months.
We also monitor liquidity over standalone businesses, and that the Group be anticipated by the market we operate the managed separation horizon and are position must be compliant with regulatory in and significant operational losses.
currently comfortable that our liquidity requirements at all times.
is adequate after management actions.
At the plc level, we make extensive use of multi-year stress testing to understand the The Group should be able to meet possible impact of risks to dividend and short-term plausible but extreme losses.
We also rely on business-specific monitoring to identify and assess risks within our businesses.
Risk and control culture We measure our risk and control culture by considering our governance structures, tone from the top, understanding of risk, attitude to risk, control functions, quality of management information and remuneration structures.
In line with the managed separation strategy, we no longer consider an aggregated view of economic capital at the Group level: instead we look at each businesss economic capital profile.
We will continue to focus on determining each businesss standalone day-one capital and liquidity position, to ensure we establish four well-capitalised businesses with sufficient liquidity.
The managed separation will ensure that each business will be able to access capital more easily from their natural shareholder bases.
This addresses the challenge of a lack of transparency of underlying businesses capital strength in the Groups overall solvency position due to fungibility constraints.
The key performance indicators used to monitor capital and liquidity risks are set out in the Group finance directors report.
The Strategic report on pages 1-79 was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by Bruce Hemphill Group Chief Executive
