Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 112 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Notes to the Directors Remuneration Policy table executive directors Performance measures and targets The committee selects performance measures that are central to the Companys overall strategy and are used by the executive directors and Board in overseeing the operation of the business.
The performance targets for the STI are determined annually by the committee.
External directorships Executive directors are, subject to prior clearance by the Board, permitted to hold one external non-executive directorship of a listed company and are entitled to retain the fees payable to them for doing so.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Companys approach to executive director and wider employee remuneration is based on a common set of remuneration principles and a governance structure which have been implemented across all major subsidiaries.
This includes subsidiary remuneration committees with agreed terms of reference, who have oversight over local matters and ensure that the remuneration principles and policies are implemented consistently.
Although the committee does not consult directly with employees on the executive director remuneration policy, it reviews proposals in the context of a detailed understanding of remuneration for the broader employee population.
The structure of total remuneration packages for executive directors, and for the broader employee population is similar, with the exception of MSIP and LTI awards, which comprises base pay, pension and benefits and eligibility for a discretionary STI based on performance in the financial year.
The level of STI and the portion deferred are determined by role and responsibility.
Executive directors and selected senior executives participate in the MSIP.
As with the MSIP, the legacy LTI plan applied to executive directors and senior executives based at the plc in London.
Other LTI plans are in place for senior executives in subsidiary companies.
Annual base pay increases for the executive directors are normally limited to the average base pay increase for employees in their home country, unless there has been a change in role or salary progression for a newly appointed director.
Approach to remuneration in connection with recruitment The committees approach to remuneration in connection with recruitment is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
It should be noted that the Company operates in a specialised sector, is undergoing an extraordinary period of transition under the managed separation strategy, and many of its competitors for talent are from outside the UK.
Remuneration terms for any new executive directors will be based on the approved remuneration policy and would include the same elements, and be subject to constraints at or below those of the existing executive directors, as shown below: Element of remuneration Maximum percentage of base pay Base pay N A Benefit allowance for retirement, elective benefits or in cash 35% Other benefits Dependent on circumstances and location STI 150% MSIP Up to 750% In determining the MSIP award opportunity to be offered to new executive directors on recruitment, consideration will be given to progress achieved in executing the managed separation strategy and the time elapsed.
These considerations will likely lead to a reduction of the level of award opportunity over time as the managed separation progresses.
When it is necessary to buy out an individuals unvested awards from a previous employer, the committee will seek to match the expected value of the awards by granting awards that vest over a timeframe similar to those given up, with a commensurate reduction in quantum where the new awards will be subject to performance conditions that are not as stretching as those applicable to the awards given up.
Existing annual incentive given up may be bought out on an expected value basis or incorporated in an appropriate way into the executives bonus for the first performance year only.
Where appropriate, the committee will agree reasonable costs of relocation in line with the Groups mobility policy which, based on individual circumstances, provides for a settling-in allowance and costs incurred such as travel, shipping, immigration and tax advice, temporary housing, transaction costs on home sale purchase, home school search and school fees and, if in relation to a temporary assignment, tax equalisation and a housing allowance.
All of these costs will be covered gross of tax incurred by the executive, where applicable.
