Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 70 REVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED set out under the managed separation upon business boards.
Independent chairs Performance measures strategy.
The managed separation is will be appointed to business boards at the In line with statutory reporting requirements planned to be executed within approved appropriate time, to the extent they are not we report profits assessed on an risk appetite and value, cost, time and risk already in place, in readiness for separation.
International Financial Reporting and the balancing of stakeholder interests.
Business committee chairs will be invited to Standards IFRS basis.
Consistent with the This will require optimising liquidity cash present key issues directly to the plc Board.
past year, we complement IFRS reporting management and cash generation at both There will be more formal interaction with with additional disclosures on various business and plc levels which will represent the businesses and with the plc Board, based alternative performance measures APMs.
an increase in exposure to market risk, on shareholder rights and regulatory APMs are not defined by the relevant ensuring all regulatory capital requirements responsibilities.
The plc and the businesses financial reporting framework which continue to be met and ongoing monitoring of will continue to prepare for forthcoming for the Group is IFRS, but we used them risk culture.
regulatory changes, cognisant of the to provide greater insight to the financial implications of the managed separation and performance, financial positions and Regulatory and governance evolving governance requirements.
In cash flows of the Group and the way it is The plc operating model has evolved particular, the incoming Twin Peaks managed.
Summary information about from that of a strategic controller, to regulation in South Africa will influence the the key APMs used in our financial review an active portfolio manager during the level of the appropriate strategic minority is provided in the following table: implementation phase of the managed stake in Nedbank held by the new SA group, separation.
This means that there will be through its ownership of OMLAC SA.
increased reliance and accountability APM Definition Why is the measure used?
Group Adjusting AOP is a normalised profit measure to reflect the underlying operating Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, Operating Profit profit of the Group.
It therefore adjusts IFRS profit for the impact of AOP is an appropriate alternative basis by AOP acquisitions and disposals: short-term fluctuations and IFRS accounting which to assess the underlying operating treatments that do not fairly reflect the economics of our operations.
It enhances the comparability and In addition, AOP excludes the results of non-core operations.
understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
The calculation of AOP adjusts the basic IFRS profit for a number of items as detailed in note C1 in the financial statements.
Adjusted Return ROE is calculated as AOP post-tax and NCI over average ordinary It is a measure of the return generated for of Equity ROE shareholders' equity.
For the purpose of this calculation, the perpetual shareholders over the reporting period.
preferred callable securities are deducted from equity to be consistent with the related finance costs which are included in AOP.
Adjusted plc NAV ANAV uses a MCEV valuation basis for OMEM covered business and the ANAV represents a better indication of the per ordinary share UK Heritage business in OMW as well as the market value of listed value of our covered and listed businesses ANAV subsidiaries.
Other businesses and other assets are included at IFRS net than the disclosure in the IFRS balance asset value.
Free Surplus Free surplus generation measures the efficiency of the businesses in Free surplus provides users of the Financial converting AOP profits into operational cash flows that support the plc results of plc with additional information on capital management policy.
the cash generation of the businesses that is not directly observed in the IFRS results.
Gross sales Gross sales are the gross cash flows received from customers during This measure is a lead indicator of reported the period.
Net Client Cash NCCF is the difference between money received from customers This measure is a lead indicator of reported Flows NCCF and money returned to customers during the period.
