Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 36 Business Old Mutual review Wealth Our priorities going Managed forward outlook We anticipate continued equity market and separation and currency uncertainty, with the geo-political governance landscape increasing in complexity and as the impact of the UKs exit from the EU is progressed in 2017 and 2018.
Similarly, In 2016 we started our programme retail investor sentiment is influenced by of activity to operate as a standalone general market conditions and their listed business once the managed confidence in the future outlook of separation from Old Mutual plc has been economies, which has a bearing on the achieved.
To ensure our organisation is fit flows of assets that are available to be for purpose as a listed standalone entity, attracted to our wealth solution offering.
we have reshaped and strengthened both Our business is evolving as we prepare our executive management team and to operate on a standalone basis and Board and enhanced our governance continue our development for the future.
during the course of 2016 and will continue Our investment in distribution and building this in 2017.
Glyn Jones joined the Board as asset management capabilities will an independent Chairman in November continue.
This investment will primarily be 2016 and Moira Kilcoyne, George Reid, organic but minor in-fill acquisitions may Tim Tookey and Cathy Turner have joined also be considered if these: fit into the core the Board since the end of 2016 as business: are readily integrated: enable independent non-executive directors.
good customer outcomes: and are As announced, Rosie Harris will join the We are demonstrably incremental to shareholder Board as an independent non-executive value.
Allowing for known changes in our preparing the director in April 2017. business perimeter, we expect to deliver business to be above-market growth in FUM and robust standalone revenue growth in the face of margin and Managing regulatory pressure and the current and building for our risk market environment.
the future We target NCCF to continue to grow above OMW is exposed to a number of risks as 5% of opening FUM excluding Heritage a result of our business model.
We have a business and anticipate continued sales diverse set of businesses, offering active growth of our UK Platform products and asset and discretionary management, the Cirilium fund range from our own advice and product solutions.
The diverse advisers in 2017, as we expand our nature of our businesses and our integrated distribution network.
Within OMGI, we will model expose us to certain strategic, continue to evolve our multi-asset offering business, operational, financial and and appraise opportunities to broaden our regulatory risks.
While the nature of our asset management capabilities as they arise.
business risks are largely consistent with those we have faced over recent years, we are increasing our exposure to advice risk through the expansion of our distribution capabilities and we are investing further in diversifying our asset management capabilities, exposing us to increased market risk.
These investments also increase both our key person dependency and reliance on fund performance to deliver desired client outcomes.
The UK Platform transformation is a large scale and complex programme with the majority implemented
