Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 13 Strategic review of our portfolio perimeter and We are creating an ecosystem governance of partnerships and investing model to gain early exposure and insights into financial During 2016 we communicated the six top services innovation and priority areas of management focus as we disruption models prepare the business for an independent future, with a primary listing in South Africa.
This included, amongst others, a review of our portfolio perimeter and our governance model.
We have completed the strategic review of our portfolio of businesses and concluded that we will prioritise our high-return and Our primary competitors in Sub-Saharan across Africa: but they also bring new cash generative businesses in Sub-Saharan Africa are our large South African challenges to industry incumbents.
Africa and seek to improve returns from our insurance peers and local firms, rather Industry convergence is accelerating, recent investments in East and West Africa.
and the rise of non-traditional competitors Any changes to our current portfolio of such as mobile network operators is assets and businesses are likely to be Asia and Latin America compounded by the emergence of the effected through various corporate actions India remained a growth economy sharing economy, and fintech and which will balance time, value and risk in during 2016 and economic growth in insurtech start-ups that disrupt traditional delivering enhanced value.
We will provide China remained high, at 6.7% for 2016, business models.
In response, we are further updates as to the timing and nature however slowed from previous years.
creating an ecosystem of partnerships of any possible consequential transactions Latin American economies suffered from and investing to gain early exposure and in due course.
the lag effects of the 2015 low commodity insights into financial services innovation prices and financial strain from escalating and disruption models.
The governance model review is near government debt.
completion and aims to simplify our target From a human capital perspective: operating model and unlock efficiencies In India, our joint venture Kotak Life changes in regulations, the socio-political in our governance structures in order to Insurance continues its excellent landscape, an increasingly digital world speed up decision making, effect change performance with growth consistently and a growing move towards localisation and implement our strategy.
Our strong outstripping peers the business now are affecting our ability to attract and retain executive and experienced management ranks seventh out of 23 life companies skilled people in each of our markets.
To team are committed to successfully lead with a 5% share.
In China, our joint venture support our growth ambitions, it is critical OMEM through the changes in our with Guodian will need to manage some that we continue developing local talent organisation, while deepening and key challenges in the regulatory and across both leadership and technical building future leadership capabilities distribution space.
areas as we grow our emerging markets from within our diverse talent pool.
To this end, we have established Across emerging markets programmes where we have identified Across our markets, customer preferences high-performing individuals and are and attitudes are evolving in an always mentoring and supporting them in our on, always connected world.
Digital and quest to grow our next leaders from within.
mobile technology is changing the way We have also crafted a market-leading customers interact with financial services employee value proposition to enable us providers.
Overall, these changes are to attract the best local talent within each positive as they drive greater financial of our markets.
