Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 89 of interests as the strategy for these PLC BOARD GENDER SPLIT PLC EXCO GENDER SPLIT businesses develops and is implemented.
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 In addition to its existing processes, and the duties of those directors under applicable company law, the Company has F F established additional procedures for disclosing and managing those conflicts of interests and those situations which, although not strictly giving rise to a conflict of interest, might reflect differences of interests which need to be carefully managed.
M The Companys procedures for dealing M with directors conflicts of interest continued to operate effectively during 2016 and no director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company Female 38% Female 33% or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Male 62% Male 67% Additional details of various non-material 2018 target 30% 2018 target 30% transactions between the directors and the Group are reported on an aggregated basis, along with other transactions by 1 KEY ROLES GENDER SPLIT OF PERMANENT senior managers of the Group, in Note GENDER SPLIT S TAFF J3 to the financial statements.
The executive directors are permitted to hold and retain, for their own benefit, F F fees from one external non-Group non-executive directorship of another listed company but not a chairmanship, subject to prior clearance by the Board M and provided the directorship concerned is not in conflict or potential conflict with any of the Groups businesses.
None of the executive directors currently holds any external non-executive directorships of M other publicly-quoted companies.
Has the Company granted indemnities to its directors?
Female 18% Female 53% 34,995 In accordance with the Companys Articles Male 82% Male 47% 31,212 of Association, each director is granted 2018 target 30% an indemnity by the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their 1 Membership of the Executive Committees of the Company and the four businesses as office, to the extent permitted by UK law.
at 31 December 2016 50 positions in total The Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity in favour of each of the directors.
The indemnities described above We recognise that difference in its broadest What is the were in force throughout 2016 and have sense is critical to our success and, while Companys approach remained so up to the date of this report.
focus varies by country, increasing gender to ensuring diversity?
The Company also maintains directors diversity is a priority for all of our Each business is required to develop an and officers liability insurance.
We continue to exceed our environment that promotes the benefits diversity target of at least three female of equal opportunities and diversity.
Leadership and members of the Board, with female Recruitment, promotion, selection for effectiveness membership of our Board at 38% five out training and other aspects of employee Our business relies on the commitment, of 13 for most of the year.
Also, two of our management are free from discrimination talent and diversity of our employees.
In six-member plc Exco are women.
We also including on grounds of gender, race, order to understand and meet the needs welcomed Sir John Parkers review into the disability, age, marital status, sexual of customers better, we strive to have an ethnic diversity of UK boards, and we were orientation and religious belief.
For employee population that is representative pleased to be in fifth place in the list of FTSE our businesses in South Africa, these of the markets we serve.
To attract and 100 companies by number of ethnic imperatives have to be balanced against retain appropriately skilled employees, minority directors.
their Broad-Based Black Economic managers and executives, we maintain Empowerment B-BBEE requirements.
