Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 90 CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED We remain committed to improving our both internally and externally facilitated The main changes to the committees during diversity and continue to strive towards the reviews using a range of approaches.
2016 were that Trevor Manuel joined the targets for 2018 that we set in 2013 see the Board Risk Committee when he became The feedback from the 2015 review diagrams on the preceding page.
We have a director at the start of 2016 and Vassi resulted in a number of actions being taken invested significantly in our womens Naidoo joined the Group Audit Committee, during 2016, which included in particular networks and mentoring initiatives.
and stepped down from the Board Risk increasing the level of interaction and Committee, in May 2016. collaboration between the Board and the How do we ensure that subsidiary boards.
This was recognised The current membership of the Boards Board members have to be of particular importance during the main standing committees is as follows: the right knowledge to managed separation.
However, in the light Group Audit Committee discharge their duties?
of the expected life of the Company as a Roger Marshall Chairman since 2010 The composition of and succession plans listed company and the changes in the roles Mike Arnold since 2009 for the Board are formally considered at of the Board and its standing committees, Adiba Ighodaro since 2014 least annually.
We have developed a skills a number of other actions were not Nkosana Moyo since 2014 and industry experience matrix to help the taken forward.
Board assess the composition profiles of The Board effectiveness review for 2016 the Board and major subsidiary boards.
Secretary to the committee: was conducted internally using an online The Nomination and Governance Colin Campbell succeeded Martin Murray questionnaire supplemented by one-to-one Committee regularly discusses talent on 1 June 2016. interviews with each Board member.
and succession plans for the businesses Board Risk Committee The questionnaire sought feedback Executive Committees.
Mike Arnold Chairman since 2010 around a number of different aspects of Zoe Cruz since 2014 Training and induction of the Board and its committees, including: Roger Marshall since 2010 non-executive directors Board governance Trevor Manuel since January 2016 Training for Board members in 2016 Managed separation Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita since 2013. covered topics such as the EU Market Decision-making.
Abuse Regulation, management of Other member of the committee during A separate questionnaire was issued to credit risk, briefings on political and part of the year: gather feedback on the Chairman.
economic developments and the role Vassi Naidoo May 2015 to May 2016. of the Groups regulators.
The feedback was collated and reported Secretary to the committee: back to the Board.
The review concluded that: The Company has a comprehensive Colin Campbell since 2012. induction programme for new The Chairman, the Board and its Nomination and non-executive directors to enable new committees had operated effectively Governance Committee appointees to the Board to familiarise during 2016, with clarity of purpose Patrick OSullivan Chairman since 2010 and appropriate consideration given themselves with the Groups operations, to stakeholder expectations.
Alan Gillespie since 2010 financial affairs and strategic position Despite the increased level of interaction Danuta Gray since 2013 so that they can make an effective with the subsidiary boards in 2016, there Vassi Naidoo since May 2015 contribution as soon as possible after they should be more engagement with those Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita since 2013. have joined the Board.
This programme boards during 201 7. includes sessions with each of the four Secretary to the committee: businesses and the Companys auditors What are the Boards Colin Campbell succeeded Martin Murray and external legal advisers.
on 1 June 2016. standing committees and what did they do How is the performance during the year?
of the Board and its The Board has a number of standing committees reviewed?
committees to which various matters Performance reviews of the Board and are delegated in line with their terms its standing committees are conducted of reference.
annually and are carried out by an external expert at least once every three years.
Under its current Chairman, the Board has invested a significant amount of effort in understanding its effectiveness through
