58 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT MIKE FAIREY NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN The Investor Relations function continues to assist the The statement of corporate governance Board in developing a programme of meetings and practices, including the Reports of presentations to both institutional and private shareholders, details of which are also set out in the Committees, set out on pages 58 to 93 Report.
We welcome shareholders to attend the AGM, and information incorporated by which will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, 60 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4AG on 10 May 2017 at reference, constitutes the Corporate 11am.
Governance Report of OneSavings Bank.
Finally, as this is my last report to you in this role, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE THE CODE over the years.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT During 2016, the Company applied all of the main principles of the Code and has complied with all Code MIKE FAIREY provisions.
The Code is available at www.
Non-Executive Chairman 16 March 2017 Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present to you the Companys Corporate Governance Report for 2016, and to report our full compliance throughout the year with the Code as updated in 2014.
The Board continues to be committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and considers that good corporate governance is essential to provide the executive team with the environment and culture in which to drive the success of the business.
We welcomed Margaret Hassall and Andrew Doman to the Board in July 2016 as independent Non-Executive Directors.
Margaret and Andrew have extensive financial skills and knowledge of the financial services industry which is extremely valuable to the continued development of the Bank.
Stephan Wilcke, Malcolm McCaig and Dr David Morgan left the Board during 2016.
I would like to thank them for their enormous contribution towards the success of the Bank over the years.
I wish them well in all their future ventures.
I have also informed the Board of my intention to step down as Chairman at the conclusion of the annual general meeting AGM.
The Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively, as identified in the formal performance review exercise carried out during 2016, details of which are set out in the Report below.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 59 THE ROLE AND STRUCTURE OF THE BOARD Corporate governance The Board of Directors the Board is responsible for the long Review of the Groups overall governance structure term success of the Company and provides leadership to the Determining the independence of Directors Group.
The Board focuses on setting strategy and monitoring performance, and ensures that the necessary financial and Other human resources are in place to enable the Company to meet The making of political donations its objectives.
In addition, it ensures the appropriate financial Approval of the overall levels of insurance for the Group and business systems and controls are in place to safeguard shareholders interests and to maintain effective corporate Board members governance.
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board The Board is also responsible for ensuring the Companys Appointment or removal of the Chairman, CEO, SID and continuing commitment to carrying on its business fairly, Company Secretary honestly and openly, with a commitment to zero tolerance towards bribery.
ACCOUNTABILITY The Board operates in accordance with the Companys Articles In line with the Code provisions, the Board ensures that a fair, of Association the Articles and its own written terms of balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys reference.
The Board has established a number of Committees position and prospects is presented in all financial and as indicated in the chart on page 40.
Each Committee has its business reporting.
The Board is responsible for determining own terms of reference which are reviewed at least annually.
the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and maintains sound risk The Board retains specific powers in relation to the approval of management and internal control systems.
The Board has the Banks strategic aims and policies and other matters, established formal and transparent arrangements for which must be approved by it under legislation or the Articles.
considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, These powers are set out in the Boards written Terms of risk management and internal control principles and for Reference and Matters Reserved for the Board which are maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys approved annually.
A summary of the matters reserved for auditors.
decision by the Board is set out below: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING Strategy and management The Board is committed to ensuring that all external financial Overall strategy of the Group reporting presents a fair, balanced and understandable Approval of long term objectives assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Matters Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure considered in establishing this include whether there is budgets consistency between the front and back ends of the accounts: Review of performance against strategy and objectives there is a balanced review of the competitive landscape: the language used is sufficiently simple: there is an appropriate Structure and capital analysis of risks facing the business: and there is equal Changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure prominence given to statutory and underlying profit.
Under Changes to the Groups management and control the Schedule of Reserved Matters, the Board has responsibility structure for the approval of all externally-published information including, but not limited to, annual and half-yearly financial Risk management statements, regulatory news announcements and Overall risk appetite of the Group publications required by regulators or to satisfy statutory Approval of strategic risk management framework requirements.
Financial reporting and controls The Company has established a disclosure and Approval of financial statements communications policy to assist the Board in ensuring the Approval of dividend policy quality of its reporting.
The policy applies to all Approval of treasury policies communications made by and relating to the Group including Approval of significant changes in accounting policies written statements in periodic financial reports, news releases, Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal letters and circulars to shareholders and speeches and control and risk management presentations given by Executives and senior management.
Remuneration Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors, Company Secretary and other senior executives Determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors Introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to existing plans 60 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED which include the Board and Executive Committee.
As noted RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL above, the Board sets the Companys risk appetite and is The Board retains ultimate responsibility for setting the Banks ultimately responsible for ensuring an effective risk risk appetite and ensuring that there is an effective risk management framework is in place.
The Compliance Function management framework to maintain levels of risk within the maintains the key controls framework which tracks and risk appetite.
The Board regularly reviews its procedures for reports on key controls within the business to ensure identifying, evaluating and managing risk, acknowledging that compliance with the main provisions of the Financial Conduct a sound system of internal control should be designed to Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve PRA handbooks.
Policy documents also include key controls business objectives.
that map back to the key controls framework.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal The third line of defence is the internal audit function.
risks facing the business, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board is committed to consistent application of Further details are contained in the viability statement on appropriate ethical standards, and the conduct risk policy sets page 46. out the basic principles to be followed to ensure ethical considerations are embedded in all business processes and The Board has established a Risk Committee to which it has decision making forums.
The Group also maintains detailed delegated responsibility for oversight of the Groups risk policies and procedures in relation to the prevention of bribery appetite, risk monitoring and capital management.
The Risk and corruption, and a whistleblowing policy.
Committee provides oversight and advice to the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy, assists the DIRECTORS Board in fostering a culture within the Group which The Directors who served during the year are listed in the table emphasises and demonstrates the benefits of a risk-based on page 61.
Stephan Wilcke retired on 11 May 2016, Dr David approach to internal control and management.
Further details Morgan and Malcolm McCaig retired on 31 December 2016. of the Groups risk management approach, structure and Andrew Doman and Margaret Hassall were appointed on principal risks are set out in the risk management report on 26 July 2016. pages 34 to 45.
The Board currently consists of 11 Directors, being the The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility Chairman, two Executive Directors, seven independent for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director who control systems.
The Audit Committee is supported by the is not regarded as being independent.
The biographies of internal audit function in discharging this responsibility, and Directors can be found on pages 56 to 57.
The Board approves receives regular reports from internal audit as to the overall a formal meeting schedule each year with ad hoc meetings effectiveness of the control system within the Group.
Details of called as and when circumstances require.
There is an annual the Groups review of the effectiveness of the Companys calendar of agenda items to ensure that all matters are given internal control systems are set out in the Audit Committee due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in report on page 72. the regulatory and financial cycle: 12 Board meetings were held during 2016.
The Board has established a number of CONTROL ENVIRONMENT committees as shown on the chart on page 40.
Each The Company is organised along the three lines of defence committee has its own terms of reference which are reviewed model to ensure at least three stages of independent at least annually and are available on our website oversight to protect the customer and the Company from www.
Details of each Committees activities during undue influence, conflict of interest and poor controls.
2016 are shown in the Nomination and Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Risk Committee and The first line of defence is provided by the operational business Remuneration Committee Chairs reports on pages 66 to 90. lines which measure, assess and control risks through the The table below shows each Directors attendance at the day-to-day activities of the business within the frameworks Board and Committee meetings they were eligible to attend set by the second line of defence.
The second line of defence is in2016: provided by the risk, compliance and governance functions Strategic report Financial statements Governance 61 Nomination and Audit Remuneration Governance Risk 1 1 1,4 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Mike Fairey Chairman 10 12 n a n a 4 7 n a Graham Allatt 12 12 4 4 n a n a 10 11 Eric Anstee 10 12 4 4 n a n a 10 11 2 Andrew Doman 4 5 1 1 n a n a 3 3 Rod Duke 12 12 2 2 6 6 7 7 7 7 Andy Golding 12 12 n a n a n a n a Tim Hanford 11 12 n a n a n a n a 2 Margaret Hassall 5 5 n a n a n a 3 3 Malcolm McCaig 10 12 4 4 7 9 n a n a Mary McNamara 12 12 n a 9 9 7 7 10 11 Dr David Morgan 9 12 n a n a 4 7 n a Nathan Moss 12 12 n a 8 9 7 7 n a April Talintyre 12 12 n a n a n a 10 11 3 Stephan Wilcke 4 4 n a n a n a n a 1.
All absences are due to scheduling clashes.
Some ad hoc meetings were scheduled at short notice 2.
Mike Fairey did not attend meetings where his successor was discussed In October 2016, the Board attended a strategy away day.
All CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS RESPONSIBILITIES Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and Andy Goldings responsibilities as CEO are to ensure that the any committees of which they are members, and to devote Company operates effectively at strategic, operational and sufficient time to the Companys affairs to fulfil their duties as administrative levels.
He is responsible for all the Banks Directors.
Where Directors are unable to attend a meeting, activities: provides leadership and direction to encourage they are encouraged to submit any comments on papers to be others to effect strategies agreed by the Board: channels considered at the meeting to the Chairman in advance to expertise, energy and enthusiasm: builds individuals ensure that their views are recorded and taken into account capabilities within the team: develops and encourages talent during the meeting.
within the business: identifies commercial and business opportunities for the Company, building strengths in key areas: Key Board activities during the year included: and is responsible for all commercial activities of the Strategy Company, liaising with regulatory authorities where Risk monitoring and review appropriate.
He is responsible for the quality and financial Governance and compliance wellbeing of the Group, represents the Company to external External affairs and competitor analysis organisations and builds awareness of the Company Talent review externally.
Annual and quarterly reporting Customer brand product review An experienced senior executive team comprising of Policy review and update specialists in finance, banking, risk, legal, and IT matters assist Investment proposals the CEO in carrying out his responsibilities.
The biographies for the senior executive team can be found on our website at Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer www.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO are held by different people.
There is a clear division of responsibilities, which has been agreed by the Board and is formalised in a schedule of responsibilities for each.
As Chairman, Mike Fairey is responsible for setting the tone at the top and ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills, experience and development so that it can focus on the key issues affecting the business: and for leading the Board and ensuring it acts effectively.
Our CEO Andy Golding has overall responsibility for managing the Group and implementing the strategies and policies agreed by the Board.
A summary of the key areas of responsibility of the Chairman and CEO, and how these have been discharged during the year, are set out on page 62.
62 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED CHAIRMANS RESPONSIBILITIES ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT IN 2016 Chairing the Board and general meetings of the Company.
The Chairman chaired almost all of the Board meetings held in 2016 and the 2016 AGM.
Setting Board agenda and ensuring that adequate time is The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, sets available for discussion of all agenda items.
the annual calendar of Board business and the agendas for the individual meetings.
Time is allocated for each item of business at meetings.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and The Board received regular updates from its Committees corporate governance throughout the Company.
and reviewed its corporate governance policies and procedures at its meeting in May.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, information in advance of meetings.
agrees the information to be circulated to the Board in advance of each meeting.
Promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the The Chairman runs the meetings in an open and effective contribution of all Non-Executive Directors.
constructive way, encouraging the contribution from all Directors.
He met formally with the Non-Executive Directors without management present in July so that any concerns Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and could be expressed.
Informal meetings are held throughout Non-Executive Directors and the CEO in particular.
Regularly considering succession planning and the The Board receives regular updates from the Nomination composition of the Board.
Details of the Committees activities are explained in the Nomination and Governance Committee report on page 66.
Ensuring training and development needs of all Directors are The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, has met, and that all new Directors receive a full induction.
Details of induction and training held during the year are given on page 64.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and The Chairman, with the Board, assisted by the CEO, Chief stakeholders.
Financial Officer and Investor Relations Manager, agrees a programme of investor relations meetings.
Details of those carried out during the year are shown on page 65.
The ExCos activities during the year included: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Business review: The CEO chairs the Executive Committee ExCo, whose Capital and funding: members are the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Human resources and succession planning: Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Group General Counsel and Company Governance, control and risk environment current and Secretary advisory, Commercial Director, Chief Information forward looking: Officer, Chief Credit Officer, Sales and Marketing Director and System transformation: and Head of Internal Audit advisory.
There are seven other Monitoring target operating model progress.
committees reporting to the ExCo see the Governance Structure Chart on page 40.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Rod Duke is the Senior Independent Director SID.
His role is to The purpose of the ExCo is to assist the CEO in the act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to support him performance of his duties, including: in the delivery of his objectives.
This includes ensuring that the the development and implementation of the strategic plan views of all other Directors are communicated to, and given including a strong operating model and systems and due consideration by, the Chairman.
In addition, the SID is controls to support the strategic plan: responsible for leading the annual appraisal of the Chairmans the monitoring of operating and financial performance: performance.
the assessment and control of risk: the prioritisation and allocation of resources: The SID is also available to shareholders should they wish to the development of a high performing senior management discuss concerns about the Company other than through the team: and Chairman and CEO.
monitoring customer proposition and experience.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 63 COMPANY SECRETARY Non-Executive Directors are required to confirm annually that The Company Secretary, Jason Elphick, plays a key role within they continue to have sufficient time to devote to the role.
the Company assisting the Directors with their pursuit of profit and growth, acting with integrity and independence to protect Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors the interests of the Company, its shareholders and employees.
The Board may appoint a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as Jason ensures that the Company complies with all statutory an addition to the existing Board.
The new Director must then and regulatory requirements and works closely with the retire at the next AGM of the Company and is put forward for Chairman, CEO and Chairs of the Board Committees so that election by the shareholders.
All other Directors are put Board procedures including setting agendas and the timely forward for re-election annually.
In addition to any power of distribution of papers are complied with, and that there are removal conferred by the Companies Act, the Company may, good communication flows between the Board, its by special resolution, remove any Director before the Committees, senior management and Non-Executive expiration of his period of office and may, subject to the Directors.
Jason is also available to Directors to provide advice Articles, by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is and support, including facilitating induction programmes and willing to act as a Director in his or her place.
training in conjunction with the Chairman.
Relationship Agreement EFFECTIVENESS On admission of its shares to the London Stock Exchange Balance and independence following the IPO in June 2014, the Company entered into a The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement with its discharging their duties is essential for the success of the major shareholder OSB Holdco Limited the Major Company.
In order to operate effectively, the Board and its Shareholder.
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, the Committees comprise of a balance of skills, experience, Major Shareholder has been granted the right to appoint one independence and knowledge to encourage constructive Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as it holds at debate and challenge to the decision making process.
least 10% of the Companys ordinary shares and a further Non-Executive Director for so long as it holds at least 30% of The Board comprises nine Non-Executive Directors including the Companys ordinary shares.
Tim Hanford was appointed by the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
Eight of the the Major Shareholder.
The Directors believe that the terms of Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman have been the Relationship Agreement enable the Company to carry on determined by the Board to be independent in character and its business independently of the Major Shareholder and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which ensure that all agreements and transactions between the may affect, or could appear to affect, the relevant individuals Company, on the one hand, and the Major Shareholder and its judgement.
Andrew Doman is considered independent associates and or persons acting in concert with the Major notwithstanding that he is Chairman of Castle Trust Capital Shareholder or its associates, on the other hand, are at arms plc, an unlisted company, of which Tim Hanford is also a length and on a normal commercial basis.
Tim Hanford is not considered to be independent due Company is aware such terms have been complied with to his position as a representative of the Major Shareholder.
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed continually, including formal review annually.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles set out the policy for dealing with The size and composition of the Board is kept under review by Directors conflicts of interest and are in line with the the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Board Companies Act 2006.
The Articles permit the Board to itself to ensure an appropriate balance of skills and experience authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, as long as the is represented.
The Board is satisfied that its current potentially conflicted Director is not counted in the quorum composition allows it to operate effectively and that all and does not vote on the resolution to authorise the conflict.
Directors are able to bring specific insights and make valuable contributions to the Board due to their varied commercial Directors are required to complete an annual confirmation backgrounds.
The Non-Executive Directors, and in particular including a fitness and propriety questionnaire, which requires the Independent Non-Executive Directors, provide declarations of external interests and potential conflicts.
In constructive challenge to the executive management and the addition, all Directors are required to declare their interests in Chairman ensures that the views of all Directors are taken into the business to be discussed at each Board meeting.
consideration in the Boards deliberations.
Directors biographies can be found on pages 56 to 57.
The Board has also adopted a conflicts of interest policy which includes a procedure for identifying potential conflicts of Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment interest within the Group.
Under this procedure, all potential Non-Executive Directors are appointed for terms of three conflicts of interest must be disclosed to the Company years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The initial Secretary, who advises on proportionate controls to address term may be renewed up to a maximum of three terms nine the conduct risks associated with them.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive compliance maintains and reviews a Group wide register of Directors specify the amount of time they are expected to potential conflicts of interest.
devote to the Companys business which is a minimum of two and half days per month, calculated based on the time Directors indemnities required to prepare for and attend Board and Committee The Companys Articles provide, subject to the provisions of UK meetings, the AGM, meetings with shareholders and training.
legislation, an indemnity for Directors and officers of the Their commitment also extends to working such additional Company and the Group in respect of liabilities they may incur hours as may be required in exceptional circumstances.
64 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED in the discharge of their duties or in the exercise of their Visits to: powers, including any liabilities relating to the defence of any Head Office proceedings brought against them which relate to anything Agencies Branches done or omitted, or alleged to have been done or omitted, by Indian subsidiary sites if appropriate them as officers or employees of the Company and the Group.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in As senior managers, under the Senior Managers Regime respect of all Directors.
operated by the PRA and FCA under the FSMA, all Directors have had to maintain the skills, knowledge and expertise Directors powers required to meet the demands of their positions of significant As set out in the Articles, the business of the Company is influence with the Bank.
As part of the Annual Fitness and managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Propriety Assessment, Directors are required to complete a Company.
In particular, save as otherwise provided in self-certification that they have undertaken sufficient training company law or in the Articles, the Directors may allot with or during the year to maintain their skills, knowledge and without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over, expertise and to make declarations as to their fitness and offer, or otherwise deal with or dispose of shares in the propriety.
The Company Secretary supports the Directors to Company to such persons at such times and generally on such identify relevant internal and external courses to ensure terms and conditions as they may determine.
The Directors Directors are kept up-to-date with key regulatory changes, may at any time after the allotment of any share but before their responsibilities as senior managers and other matters any person has been entered in the Register as the holder, impacting on the business.
recognise a renunciation thereof by the allottee in favour of some other person and may accord to any allottee of a share Information and support a right to effect such renunciation upon and subject to such The Company Secretary and the Chairman agree an annual terms and conditions as the Directors may think fit to impose.
calendar of matters to be discussed at each Board meeting to Subject to the provisions of company law, the Company may ensure that all key Board responsibilities are discharged over purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable the year.
Board agendas are then circulated with shares.
accompanying detailed papers to the Board in advance of each Board meeting.
These include reports from Executive TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Directors and other members of senior management, and all The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive a tailored Directors have direct access to senior management should induction on joining the Board, with the aim of providing a they require additional information on any of the items to be new Director with the information required to allow him or her discussed.
The Board and Audit Committee also receive to contribute to the running of the Company as soon as further regular and specific reports to allow the monitoring of the adequacy of the Companys systems and controls.
The induction programme is facilitated and monitored by the Company Secretary to ensure that all The information supplied to the Board and its Committees is information provided is fully understood by the new Director kept under review and formally assessed on an annual basis and that any queries are dealt with.
Typically, the induction as part of the Board evaluation exercise to ensure it is fit for programme will include a combination of the provision of purpose and that it enables sound decision making.
information in respect of the Company and face-to-face sessions as illustrated below.
The Company has adopted a formal procedure through which Directors may obtain independent professional advice at the Typical induction programme Companys expense.
The Directors also have access to the Materials include: services of the Company Secretary as described on page 63.
Group and organisational structure charts Details of Board Committees, including terms of reference Performance evaluation and copies of relevant minutes The Board undertakes an evaluation of its performance and Contact details for all Directors, Company Secretary and that of its Committees and individual Directors annually.
In keystaff 2016, a formal evaluation process was externally facilitated by Current business plan 1 Articles of Association Promontory Financial Group LLC, a board evaluation firm.
Minutes of recent Board meetings and dates of future meetings Promontory concluded that the Board, including its Current budget and last annual accounts Committees, discharges its duties effectively: and that the Current Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and current Directors have an appropriate range of knowledge Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process andexperience giving rise to open and effective challenge, Current Risk Appetite Statement scrutiny and debate and the structure of the governance arrangements works well.
Promontory found that the Meetings with: relationship between the Board and executive management Chairman was open and transparent and that this was reflected in the Other Directors discussions that they witnessed as part of their review.
Does not have any other connection with the Company Executive team Senior management Strategic report Financial statements Governance 65 Promontory were satisfied that no individual or group of Over the year the Company has engaged in active discussion Directors dominated the discussions or had undue influence in with shareholders and investors, both on an individual basis and the decision making process.
through attendance at investor conferences and roadshow events and the AGM during the year.
There has been ongoing Promontory identified some areas where the overall dialogue with its key stakeholders, including institutional effectiveness of the Board could be enhanced.
A summary of investors, to discuss issues relating to the performance of the those areas is included below along with an action plan.
Group including strategy and new developments.
During 2016 more than 80 investors and potential investors met with senior Theme Action taken management face to face.
Following full year and interim The frequency of meetings The frequency of meetings and results presentations, senior management undertake and the breadth and items requiring Board debate roadshows and meet with investors.
A comprehensive plan of frequencyof matters were discussed at the February Investor Relations activity is in place for the coming year.
2017 Board meeting and Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter adjustments to the calendar stakeholders might wish to raise.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are and agendas of the Board also available to attend meetings with investors and analysts.
and its Committees are being progressed.
The Company has an investor website which provides relevant Alignment of terms of An initial terms of reference information to both institutional and private shareholders, reference review was concluded in March including performance updates and the presentations made 2017.
A further review will be to analysts and investors.
In addition, private shareholders are undertaken, as required, by the able to question the Company through the Investor Relations end of 2017. function or the Company Secretarial function.
The length and quality of A programme of papers improvements to Board papers Annual General Meeting will be introduced in 2017, The AGM will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, including training for frequent 60 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4AG on 10 May 2017 at 11am.
preparers of papers and The Chairs of each of the Committees of the Board will be improvements to formatting.
present to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
The Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM will be Treasury operations sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date The Board has approved a treasury policy setting out the of the meeting.
Groups approach to the management of risks from treasury operations.
Day-to-day responsibility for management of the Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the AGM Groups treasury function is delegated to the Assets and process, and all resolutions will be proposed and voted on at Liabilities Committee ALCO which reports to the Risk the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders or their Committee.
Voting results will be announced and made available on the Companys website www.
Whistleblowing The Company has established procedures by which employees Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to possible meeting other than an AGM as provided by the Companies Act improprieties in matters of financial reporting, financial control 2006.
Requests to call a general meeting may be made by or any other matter.
The whistleblowing policy and procedure members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of applies to all employees of the Group.
The Audit Committee is the Company as carries the right of voting at general meetings responsible for monitoring the Groups whistleblowing of the Company excluding any paid-up capital held as arrangements and the policy is reviewed periodically by the treasury shares.
A request must state the general nature of Board.
The Chair of the Audit Committee has overall the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may include responsibility for whistleblowing arrangements.
the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting.
A request may be in The Group is confident that the arrangements are effective, hard copy form or in electronic form and must be facilitate the proportionate and independent investigation of authenticated by the person or persons making it.
A request reported matters, and allow appropriate follow up action to be may be made in writing to the Company Secretary to the taken.
registered office or by sending an email to company.
At any general meeting convened on RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS such request no business shall be transacted except that Dialogue with shareholders stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
The Company has established a dedicated Investor Relations function to liaise with institutional investors and analysts.
Investor relations activity and a review of the share register are regular items on the Board agenda.
