Strategic report Financial statements Governance 75 RISK COMMITTEE REPORT RESPONSIBILITIES The Board has delegated to the Committee the responsibility for oversight of the Groups risk appetite, risk monitoring and capital management.
The Committees primary objectives are therefore to provide oversight and advice to the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy, and to assist the Board to foster a culture within the Group that emphasises and demonstrates the benefits of a risk-based approach to internal control and management of the Group.
GRAHAM ALLATT Risk appetite and assessment CHAIR Advise the Board on overall risk appetite, tolerance andstrategy Review risk assessment processes that inform the Boards decision making Review the Groups capability to identify and manage Dear Shareholder newrisks Advise the Board on proposed strategic transactions including acquisitions or disposals, ensuring risk aspects I am pleased to present the report and implications for risk appetite and tolerance are considered of the Risk Committee.
Risk monitoring and framework Membership and meetings Review credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, legal and regulatory risks and operation risk exposures by reference The Committee is required to meet at least six times to risk appetite and capital adequacy per year.
In 2016 the Committee met 11 times.
Review strategic risk management framework Andrew Doman and Margaret Hassall joined the Review ICAAP framework Committee on 1 September 2016 following their Monitor actual and forecast risk and regulatory capital appointments to the Board.
The other members are positions Eric Anstee, Mary McNamara and April Talintyre.
Recommend changes to capital utilisation Only members of the Committee are entitled to Review ILAAP framework attend meetings, however the Chief Risk Officer Monitor actual and forecast liquidity position CRO, Chief Executive Officer CEO and Chief Credit Review reports on material breaches of risk limits and the Officer CCO have standing invitations to the adequacy of proposed action Committee, unless, I, as Chair, inform any of them Review RRP framework that they should not attend a particular meeting or discussion.
Chief Risk Officer CRO and risk governance structure Consider and approve the remit of the risk management The Committee reviewed and commented on function various reports, including the Internal Capital Recommend to the Board the appointment and removal of Adequacy Assessment Processes, Internal Liquidity the CRO Adequacy Assessment Processes and Recovery and Review promptly all reports of the CRO Resolution Plan, before recommending the Review and monitor managements responsiveness to the documents to the Board for approval or noting.
The findings of the CRO Committee spent an appropriate proportion of its Receive reports from the Credit Committee, Assets & time reviewing a number of inorganic transactions, Liabilities Committee and Regulatory, Operational, Conduct as well as its other advisory and oversight and Risk Committee responsibilities.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Further information on the wide range of the role Companys website, www.
and activities of the Committee is provided in the following report.
GRAHAM ALLATT Chair 16 March 2017 76 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ACTIVITY DURING 2016 OPERATIONAL RISKS In 2016, the Group continued to implement its enhanced The Committee received reports on operational risks at each strategic risk management framework, which represents the of its meetings.
The reports cover risk incidents that have overarching framework established to manage its risk profile arisen to allow the Committee to assess managements in line with its business strategy and objectives.
The strategic response and remedial action proposed.
The reports also risk management framework of the Group is set out in detail cover key risk indicators KRI which can be quantitative or on pages 39 to 41. qualitative and provide insights regarding changes in the Groups operational risk profile.
In order to discharge its duties and responsibilities, the Committee receives reports from those responsible for specific Although there were operational incidents during the course areas of risk within that framework.
The Groups compliance of 2016, the Committee was satisfied that the action taken function reports on conduct risk and regulatory risk to the was appropriate and that the control of operational incidents Committee and the CRO on all other risks.
Examples of how continued to improve.
the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year are as follows: The Committee reviewed and commented on the Group-wide risk and control self-assessment exercise and an enhanced Credit risk operational risk management framework.
The Committee received and reviewed regular detailed credit reports during the year identifying large exposures, loan to Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP values and arrears within various categories e. g. residential The Committee was involved with the design and approval of loans, Buy-to-Let, consumer lending.
These reports now appropriate macroeconomic scenarios to be used in the include more forward-looking credit risk data including debt Groups ICAAP.
The ICAAP engages the Board in the ongoing service coverage ratios for Buy-to-Let and external bureau assessment of risks and demonstrates how the Group would data.
The reports also highlight early warning indicators, manage its business and capital during adverse which allow the Committee and the risk function to address macroeconomic and idiosyncratic stresses, and the potential credit issues before they develop into significant risk Committee reviews and comments on all ICAAP submissions areas.
before they are submitted to Board for approval.
The Committee reviewed individual cases from the legacy Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP problem loans population, making recommendations, where The Committee reviewed and commented on the proposed appropriate, to ensure the best outcomes are reached.
The ILAAP prior to its submission to the Board for approval.
This Committee also reviewed and commented on updates to the process sets out the Groups approach to liquidity and funding, Group lending policy and the loan loss provisioning policy prior including the assessment and quantification of liquidity risk, to their submission to the Board for approval.
how the Group intends to mitigate those risks, and how much current and future liquidity is required.
During 2016, the Committee reviewed, challenged and ultimately approved proposed enhancements to the IAS 39 Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP methodologies, judgements and estimates which The Committee reviewed and commented on the proposed underpinned collective provision calculations.
The Committee RRP prior to its submission to the Board for approval.
The also assessed and approved the Groups provision adequacy recovery plan process is designed to ensure that in a time of levels throughout the year.
stress the Group has a credible recovery plan that can be implemented in a timely manner.
Market risk and liquidity risk Market risk and liquidity risk are continually monitored by the In addition to the specific examples given above, the Assets & Liability Committee ALCO which reports to the Risk Committee reviewed various transaction proposals, assessing Committee.
The Committee reviewed ALCOs regular their potential impact on the risk profile of the Group.
It also assessments of the UK macroeconomic environment and approved the Groups Pillar 3 disclosure and various policies potential impacts on the Groups assets and liquidity.
The Committee also reviewed and commented on updates to Risk appetite the treasury policy, interest rate and basis risk policy, asset The Committee reviewed and commented on the Groups encumbrance policy and the funds transfer pricing policy prior enhanced risk appetite framework resulting in a number of to submission to the Board for approval.
refinements being made to the process.
