Strategic report Financial statements Governance 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ERIC ANSTEE CHAIR Dear Shareholder Further details on the activities of the Committee during I am pleased to present the report of the year and how it discharged its responsibilities are the Audit Committee for my first year also provided in the report below.
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
as Chairman, having assumed the roleon 1 January 2016, following I would like to take this opportunity to thank Malcolm McCaig, who stepped down from the Committee at the myappointment to the Board in end of 2016 when he left the Board, for his significant December 2015. contribution.
I would also like to welcome Andrew Doman and Nathan Moss to the Committee.
The Committee continued to spend a significant amount of time in 2016 considering significant issues and areas ERIC ANSTEE of judgement as set out in the report below.
The Chair Committee also worked closely with Pamela McIntyre 16 March 2017 who took over as lead external audit partner for KPMG from 1 January 2016 to ensure a smooth transition.
The Committee has also considered the additional requirements in respect of external audit rotation, tender and use of external auditors for non-audit services as a result of the UK adoption of EU legislation to reform the statutory audit market.
The new legislation is effective for financial periods commencing on or after 17 June 2016, subject to a number of transitional arrangements which are explored in more detail in the report below.
70 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Audit Committee is required to meet at least four times External Audit per year, with meetings scheduled at appropriate intervals in Recommend the appointment, reappointment or removal the reporting and audit cycle.
Additional meetings are held as of the external auditor required.
In 2016 there were four meetings held, reflecting the Oversee the relationship, approve terms of engagement workload of the Committee during the year.
and review independence and objectivity Meet regularly without management present Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Develop policy on the supply of non-audit services meetings, however standing invitations are extended to the Ensure the audit contract is tendered at least every ten Executive Directors, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Internal Audit years and Head of Compliance, all of whom attend meetings as a matter of practice.
Other non-members may be invited to Internal Audit attend all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
Approve appointment or termination of the Head of The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Internal Audit Internal Audit function The internal and external auditors attend all meetings and Monitor and review effectiveness also meet in private with the Committee on each occasion.
In Review and approve the Internal Audit charter addition, the Chair of the Audit Committee has regular contact Review and assess the Internal Audit plan with the external and internal auditors throughout the year.
Ensure access to the Board and Committee Chairs The Chair meets with the Chief Financial Officer and Head of Review managements responsiveness to findings Internal Audit in advance of each meeting to agree the agenda and receives a full briefing on the key agenda items.
Financial and narrative reporting Monitor the integrity of the financial statements Membership of the Committee was reviewed by the Review and report to the Board on significant financial Nomination and Governance Committee during the year issues and judgements which recommended to the Board that Rod Duke resign from Review and challenge accounting policies, methods used to the Committee when he assumed the Chairmanship of the account for significant or unusual transactions, clarity and Nomination and Governance Committee.
It further completeness of disclosure recommended that Andrew Doman join the Committee on Where requested by the Board, advise whether the Annual 1 September 2016 following his appointment to the Board.
Report is fair, balanced and understandable Subsequent to the year end and Malcolm McCaig stepping Review and approval of Pillar 3 disclosures down from the Committee and the Board, the Nomination and Governance Committee recommended the appointment of Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud Nathan Moss to the Committee with effect from 7 February Review the adequacy and security of whistleblowing 2017.
Eric Anstee, the Committee Chair has a wealth of recent arrangements and relevant financial and accounting experience in financial Review procedures for detecting fraud and preventing services.
Taken as a whole, the Committee has an appropriate bribery balance of skills, including recent and relevant financial Review regular reports from the Money Laundering experience.
Reporting Officer and the adequacy and effectiveness of anti-money laundering systems and controls ROLE Review the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance The primary role of the Committee is to assist the Board in function and Conduct Risk Framework overseeing the systems of internal control and external financial reporting across the Group.
The Committees specific Internal controls and risk management responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which are Monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the reviewed at least annually.
These are available on the Companys internal financial controls and risk management Companys website www.
co. uk and cover external and systems internal audit, financial and narrative reporting, compliance, Review and approve the statements in the Annual Report whistleblowing and fraud and internal controls and risk concerning internal controls and risk management management primary risk oversight will move to the Risk Committee in 2017.
In addition, the Chair of the Audit Committee has informed management that he is available to meet with the Companys investors on request, in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 71 The Committee also received reports on the Companys ACTIVITY DURING 2016 preparations for and approach to IFRS 9: Financial The principal activities undertaken by the Committee during Instruments, covering the classification and measurement of the year are described below.
the loan book and determination of loan book impairment provisions from management.
Significant issues and areas of judgement considered by theCommittee Loan book acquisition accounting and income recognition The following significant issues and accounting judgements Acquired loan books are initially recognised at cost.
Significant were considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 judgement is required in calculating their effective interest Annual Report and financial statements.
In its assessment, rate EIR, using cash flow models which include assumptions the Committee considered and challenged reports from on the likely macroeconomic environment, including HPI, management prior to both the interim and full-year results, unemployment levels and interest rates, as well as loan level explaining each area of judgement and managements and portfolio attributes and history used to derive prepayment recommended approach.
The Committee also received rates, the probability and timing of defaults and the amount of reports from the external auditor setting out its views on the incurred losses.
The EIRs on loan books purchased at accounting treatment and judgements underpinning the significant discounts are particularly sensitive to the financial statements.
prepayment and default rates derived as the purchase discount is recognised over the expected life of the loan book Loan book impairments through the EIR.
New defaults are modelled at zero loss as Specific provision assessments for individually significant loans losses will be recognised in profit and loss as impairment or portfolios of loans involve significant judgement in relation losses and therefore have the same impact on EIR as to estimating future cash flows, including the cost of obtaining prepayments.
Incurred losses at acquisition are calculated and selling collateral, the likely sale proceeds and any rental using the Groups collective provision model.
The Committee income prior to sale.
reviewed and challenged reports from management before each reporting date on the approach taken.
Particular focus All assets without a specific provision are assessed collectively.
was given to loan books purchased at significant discounts, Collective provisions are calculated using 12-month including sensitivity analysis on the impact of estimated delinquency roll rates and one-year probability of defaults PD future prepayment rates and other assumptions on carrying on different segments of the loan book.
The PD calculations value and the timing of the release of discounts to profit and include assumptions for emergence periods, cure rates and loss.
The Committee reviewed a comparison of actual cash forbearance.
Loss given default LGD includes assumptions on flows to those assumed in the cash flow models by book to forced sale discounts and the level of house prices.
Significant challenge managements assessment of the need to update judgement needs to be exercised in deciding how to apply cash flow projections and adjust carrying values accordingly.
historic experience to current market conditions in both the PD Based on this work, the Committee is satisfied that the and LGD calculations.
approach taken and judgements made were reasonable.
The Committee received and challenged reports from Effective interest rate management prior to each reporting date, explaining the A number of assumptions are made when calculating the approach taken to provisioning and the resulting changes in effective interest rate for newly originated loan assets.
These provision levels during the period.
The Committee assessed include their expected lives, likely redemption profiles and the the appropriateness of proposed enhancements to the anticipated level of any early redemption charges.
Certain methodologies, judgements and estimates underpinning the mortgage products offered by the Bank include significant collective provision calculations.
These enhancements covered directly attributable net fee income, in particular Buy-to-Let, definition of default, cure rate and emergence periods in the and or revert to the standard variable rate SVR after an initial PD calculations and the treatment of loans that had received discount or fixed period.
Judgment is used in assessing the forbearance.
Enhancements were also made to the process of expected rate of prepayment during the discounted or fixed determining forced sale discounts, sales costs and discounting period of these mortgages and the expected life of those that periods in the LGD calculations.
The Bank uses historical experience in its assessment.
Judgment is also used in assessing whether and for how long The Committee reviewed additional information by loan book mortgages that reach the end of the product term stay on SVR.
during the year including provision coverage ratios, assumed The most significant area of judgment is the period spent on probability of default, loss given default and loan to value SVR.
The Bank prudently assumes no period on SVR before the ratios for loans three months or more in arrears to help with borrower refinances onto a new product or redeems, pending their assessment of the reasonableness of provisions.
the results of the new broker led retention programme launched in the second half of 2016.
The Committee reviewed The Committee asked the Risk Committee to review and and challenged the assumptions used in EIR calculations, in provide advice on the collective provision methodologies and particular the period over which net fee income is spread, and assumptions and to review the top 20 impaired loans for the also received sensitivity analysis for different product lives half year and year end.
At least two members of the including a period on the Companys standard variable rate.
Committee were also members of the Risk Committee Based on this work, the Committee is satisfied that the throughout 2016 and as such received additional detailed approach taken and judgements made were reasonable.
credit information on the loan book throughout the year.
Further details of the above significant areas of judgment can The Committee is satisfied that the approach taken and be found in Note 1 to the financial statements.
72 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee also reviewed the Companys approach to The Committee carries out an annual review of the hedge accounting and received reports on the effectiveness of effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
This was the Companys macro-hedging throughout the year.
facilitated for 2016 by a survey completed by Committee members, certain Executives and the External Auditors who had interacted with the Internal Audit function during the The Committee considered the results of managements year.
Following the review the Committee was satisfied that review of the fair value adjustments on hedged assets the Internal Audit function operated effectively during the associated with cancelled swaps and the roll-off of the year.
underlying legacy back book of long-dated fixed rate mortgages since cancellation.
Following this review the Bank Systems of internal control and risk management accelerated the amortisation of fair value adjustments on The Committee received regular reports from the Internal hedged assets in line with the mortgage asset run-off, due to Audit function during 2016, which included progress updates faster than expected prepayments since cancellation.
The against the Internal Audit Plan, the results of audits Committee considered and approved the treatment and undertaken and any outstanding audit action points.
The disclosures associated with the accelerated amortisation, in Committee used these reports and reports from the Groups particular the treatment of the adjustment as an exceptional Compliance function and the Annual Statement of Compliance loss of 9.8m to the extent it related to non-material from the Head of Compliance as the basis for its assessment adjustments to prior years.
of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
The Committee also received a report Fair, balanced and understandable on the effectiveness of the Groups system of controls from The Committee considered on behalf of the Board whether the the CEO, which was based on a self-certification process 2016 Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole completed by senior managers and executives in the are fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the Company.
The Committee reviewed the Groups procedures around the preparation, review and The Committee received and reviewed reports from challenge of the Report and the consistency of the narrative management on the status of the substantiation of balance sections with the financial statements and the use of sheet general ledger accounts prior to the reporting date.
The alternative performance measures and associated disclosures.
Committee also received an update on the status of detailed process documentation on loan book acquisition accounting Following its review, the Committee is satisfied that the after an internal review by management in late 2015 identified Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and the need to update and complete this documentation in 2016. provides the information necessary for shareholders and other stakeholders to assess the Companys position and The Committee reviewed and approved a number of policies performance, business model and strategy, and has advised following their annual refresh, including: anti-bribery and the Board accordingly.
corruption, data retention, fraud including fraud prevention arrangements and a summary of fraud incidents, sanctions, Internal Audit whistleblowing, acceptable use and conduct risk including the The Company moved from an outsourced arrangement for conduct risk framework.
Responsibility for the conduct risk internal audit to a co-sourced arrangement from 1 April 2016, policy and review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the following the appointment of the Head of Internal Audit.
Grant Banks Conduct Risk Framework was transferred to Risk Thornton LLP continued to supply expert resource when Committee with effect from 1 January 2017.
The Committee requested on specific internal audits, on a co-source basis also requested and received enhanced whistleblowing from that date.
reporting during the year and formally reported to the Board on its annual review of the effectiveness of the whistleblowing The primary role of internal audit is to help the Board and policy in early 2017. executive management to protect the Groups assets, reputation and sustainability.
It assists the Company in The Committee requested that management provide regular accomplishing its objectives by bringing a systematic and updates on data governance and controls in 2017 as the disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the Company enhances its data governance arrangements in effectiveness of the risk management, control, and connection with its planned application for an internal ratings governance processes.
based model for capital requirements.
The Internal Audit Charter, which formally defines internal External auditor audits purpose, authority and responsibility, was approved by The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups the Committee in December 2016.
The Committee also relationship with its external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
This approved the annual Internal Audit Plan, which was includes the ongoing assessment of the auditors developed, based on a prioritisation of the audit universe using independence and the effectiveness of the external audit a risk-based methodology, including input from senior process, the results of which inform the Committees management and the Committee.
A written report is prepared recommendation to the Board as to the auditors appointment following the conclusion of each internal audit engagement subject to shareholder approval or otherwise.
and distributed to the Committee and senior management.
Responsibility for ensuring appropriate corrective action is taken lies with management.
The Internal Audit function will follow-up on engagement findings and recommendations until remedial action is completed.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 73 Appointment and Tenure therefore intends to put the external audit contract out for KPMG was appointed as the first external auditor of the Bank tender no later than for the 2020 financial year.
for the period ended 31 December 2011.
Prior to that date it fulfilled the external audit function for KRBS, whereby Effectiveness following a tender process it was first appointed for the The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external 31 December 2010 period-end.
A new lead audit partner, audit function on an annual basis.
The review was facilitated Pamela McIntyre, was appointed for the year ended for 2016 through a survey completed by members of the 31 December 2016.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Committee, certain Executive Directors and other key staff Group is in compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for who had significant interaction with the external audit team Large Companies Market Investigation mandatory use of during the year.
The survey assessed the effectiveness of the competitive tender processes and Audit Committee lead partner and audit team, the audit approach and Responsibilities Order 2014 which requires FTSE 350 execution, the role of management in the audit process, companies to put their statutory audit services out to tender communication, reporting and support to the Committee as not less frequently than every 10 years.
well as the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The assessment concluded that the external audit New EU legislation adopted by the UK in 2016 sets a maximum process was effective, however the Committee asked the audit tenure of 20 years and also requires a tender at least external auditor to revisit prior year audits of the fair value every ten years.
The new legislation is effective for financial adjustments on hedged assets associated with cancelled periods commencing on or after 17 June 2016.
The Company swaps in light of managements review.
PROHIBITED SERVICES PERMITTED SERVICES Book-keeping or other services related to the accounting General accounting advice on the application of IFRS and records or financial statements.
Financial information systems design and implementation.
Appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or Transaction related services, including acquisition due contribution-in-kind reports.
diligence and tax and accounting advice.
Other audit-related services: interim profit verification: half year review, comfort letters.
Management functions or human resources.
Such other activities as may be agreed by the Committee from time to time.
Broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services.
Legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
Seconding employees to key management positions.
Tax assignments where fees are contingent and material and or dependent on uncertain tax law and audit judgement.
74 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Non-audit services The Committees assessment of the external auditors The engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit independence in 2016 took into account the non-audit services to the Group could impact the assessment of its services provided during the year, and confirmations given by independence and objectivity.
The Group has therefore KPMG as to its continued independence at various stages in established a policy governing the use of the external auditor the year.
The policy specifies prohibited and 2016 2015 permitted services as detailed in the table above and sets Nature of service 000 000 the framework within which permitted non-audit services may Audit-related assurance services be provided.
Prohibited services comprise activities that are including half year review and interim generally perceived to involve the auditor making judgements or decisions that are the responsibility of management.
profit verifications 96 71 Tax compliance and advice 70 59 The Group maintains active relationships with several other Regulatory advice and support 36 8 1 large firms and any decision to appoint the external auditor is Other 48 33 taken in the context of whether their understanding of the Total non-audit services 250 171 Group places them in a better position than other firms to undertake the work and includes an assessment of the cost 1.
2016 includes agreed upon procedures in respect of a new securitisation effectiveness and practicality of using an alternative firm.
vehicle and assurance work in relation to net lending for the Funding For Lending Scheme The Committee pre-approved a number of permitted services in 2016: interim profit verifications, the half year review and Training tax compliance for the Group.
The Committee also preThe Committee undertook a significant amount of training approved other permitted non-audit services subject to an during the year, including making extensive use of the Audit overall threshold of 70% of the final cost of the 2015 Group Committee Institute and training programmes run by the annual audit services and subject to any single item above major accountancy firms.
In addition, Committee members 100,000 being pre-agreed with the Committee Chair.
The attended a number of executive level committee meetings Committee reviews a schedule of year-to-date non-audit and met with key staff during the year to increase their services at each meeting.
knowledge and understanding of the business.
The fees paid to the external auditor in respect of non-audit Effectiveness services during 2016 totalled 250,000, representing 47% of The Committee formally considers its effectiveness annually.
2016 Group audit services of 535,000 2015: 171,000 The assessment was facilitated for 2016 using a survey representing 44% of the proposed 2015 Group audit services completed by members of the Committee.
The review of 390,000 and are detailed in the table below.
The 2016 concluded that the Committee operated effectively audit fee includes non-recurring fees of 80,000 in respect of throughout 2016 with no significant improvements required.
the audit of system migrations and the sale of the Companys economic interest in the Rochester securitisation vehicle.
The new EU statutory audit market reform legislation adopted in the UK includes restrictions on the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the statutory auditor.
Restrictions on the nature of permissible non-audit services are effective for financial periods commencing on or after 17 June 2016.
These included certain restrictions on the use of the statutory auditor for tax compliance and advice.
Accordingly, the Company ceased using KPMG for tax compliance or advice after 31 December 2016.
The new legislation also applies a cap on permissible non-audit services of 70% of the proceeding three year average of audit fees.
This is applicable for financial periods commencing on or after 17 June 2019.
Against this backdrop the Committee set a pre-approved threshold for permissible non-audit services for 2017 of 50% of the 2016 audit fee.
