B6.2 Risk Governance The Risk and Compliance Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Code.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing: The effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the extent to which risks inherent in the Groups business activities are controlled within the risk appetite established by the Board The effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls for compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations, as well as its obligations under significant contracts The oversight of the timely completion of any remedial actions found to be necessary The appropriateness of the Groups risk culture, to ensure it supports the Groups stated risk appetite The effectiveness of the Group in addressing issues requiring remedial attention to ensure actions are completed in a timely manner and minimise the potential for risk appetite thresholds to be exceeded The Risk and Compliance Committee provides oversight and challenge to the Groups enterprise-wide risk management arrangements.
The Risk and Compliance Committee is supported by an executive level Operational Risk and Compliance Committee, Credit Committee and Asset and Liability Committee.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and normally invites the executive directors, Group Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Director of Internal Audit to attend its meetings.
However, it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw or to request the attendance of any other Group employee.
The Committee meets with the Group Chief Risk Officer at least once a year, without the presence of executive management, to discuss his remit and any issues arising from it.
The Committee also has the opportunity to meet with the Director of Internal Audit and or the external auditor without the presence of executive management to discuss any matters that any of these parties believe should be discussed privately.
Agenda items for regular meetings of the Committee include: Reviewing the Groups register of principal risks Receiving and considering reports relating to the Groups consolidated risk profile, its performance against risk appetite and the progress of any resulting management actions and key risks Reviewing any proposed material changes to the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board Reviewing the Groups Compliance Monitoring Plan and the proposed management actions to address any adverse reports Receiving reports relating to key regulatory developments affecting the Group Reviewing the Groups conduct strategy and receiving reports from management on conduct risk Receiving reports from the Groups Money Laundering Reporting Officer on compliance with Anti Money Laundering requirements PAGE 142 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reviewing material operational risk events to assess the effectiveness of the Group risk and control assessment framework Reviewing the timeliness, effectiveness and progress of any executive management actions required to remediate issues identified Reviewing the Groups capital adequacy assessments and stress testing analysis Considering the minutes of its executive sub-committees The structure of the executive committees reporting to the Committee and their reporting lines is illustrated below: Risk and Compliance Committee Operational Risk and Asset and Liability Committee Credit Committee Compliance Committee Each of the executive committees operates within terms of reference formally approved by the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The primary functions of each of these committees is described below.
Asset and Liability Committee ALCO ALCO comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The principal purpose of the ALCO is to monitor and review the financial risk management of the Groups balance sheet.
As such, it is responsible for overseeing all aspects of market risk, liquidity risk and capital management as well as the treasury control framework.
ALCO operates within clear delegated authorities, monitoring exposures and providing recommendations on actions required.
Credit Committee The Credit Committee comprises senior managers from the Risk, Finance and Collections functions and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The Credit Committee approves credit risk policies and defines risk grading and underwriting criteria for the Group.
It also provides guidance and makes recommendations in order to implement the Groups strategic plans for credit.
This committee oversees the management of the credit portfolios, the post origination risk management processes and the management of past due or impaired credit accounts.
It also makes recommendations for credit risk appetite and monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 143 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
