Key activities of the Audit Report of the Audit Committee in 2016: Committee Reviewing the half-year results: - Presentation from management: - Report on the review by the External Auditor: - Going concern assessment: and - Announcement of results.
Assessing the plans for the reporting and audit of the full-year results: - Reports by investor relations and finance: - The annual audit plan and scope: - Audit fee proposal: - Review of the independence of the Auditor: and - Review and approval of an updated policy for the provision of non-audit services.
Conducting an external audit tender process and making a recommendation to the Board for the appointment of a new Auditor: - Further details are outlined on page 73.
Ian Francis Reviewing 2016 annual results: Audit Committee Chairman - Report from the CFO.
The significant issues reviewed bythe Committee are reported in the table on pages 71to 72: As Audit Committee Chair, I am pleased - Report from the Auditor.
Significant matters which to present the Audit Committees report it reviewed are included in its report on pages for the year ended 31 December 2016.
95to98: - Assessment of going concern of, and viability statement regarding, the Group: As one of the Boards standing Committees, we take very - Review of the Groups Annual Report and seriously our role in supporting the Board in meeting its recommendation to the Board: and governance requirements.
As a result of the various changes in regulation and guidance, and the growth of Paysafe, the - Announcement of results.
role of the Audit Committee has significantly expanded in Monitoring of data security and governance: recent years.
Indeed, it remains one of our key priorities to - Presentations by the Data Security and Governance monitor the implementation of changes appropriate in the Committee: context of the external regulatory environment, best practice - Overseeing the external assessment of the Groups and the development of the Group.
global information security, conducted by  LLP: The Audit Committees work in the past year has reflected the - Presentations by Chief Information Officer and developments within the Group, including its continued Group Information Security Officer, covering risks, acquisition activities, and the increased corporate reporting protections and assurance: and requirements.
The Committee has continued to conduct - Plans for ongoing review and monitoring.
oversight of financial results, internal audit reviews and the management of risk across the Group.
Our meetings are Monitoring and review of risk management scheduled so as to ensure the Committee is able to review and internal control systems: and debate, on a timely basis, areas of significant risk and - Presentations and reports by Group governance judgement.
These include meetings before commencement functions, including risk, compliance and Internal of the full-year audit in addition to meetings shortly before Audit: announcement of the Groups full and half-year results.
The - Reviewing the results of the annual Internal Audit Committee has continued to monitor the evolution of the quality questionnaire: Groups financial reporting and control framework as well as - Review and approval of the 2017 Internal Audit overseeing the risk management programme, with particular plan: and regard for how the two interact to underpin the Groups - A Group-wide review of enterprise risk.
Receiving and reviewing regular reports The integrity of the Groups financial reporting and the throughout the year on: effectiveness of its systems of risk management and internal - Enterprise Risk Management: control are clearly of fundamental importance to the Board, - Business continuity and disaster recovery: as they are to shareholders.
They are required to measure - Compliance: and and monitor the Groups performance and to ensure that - Internal Audit activities.
success in its strategic objectives can be sustained over the Receiving and reviewing periodic reports on: long term.
They protect the interests of shareholders in the - Tax matters: and integrity of published financial information.
- Provision of non-audit services by the Auditor.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 68 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION As the Audit Committee, we assist the Board in its oversight Committee effectiveness ofthese areas, testing and challenging matters in conjunction The Committees activities formed part of the with management and the Internal and External Auditors,  evaluation of the effectiveness of the where we believe appropriate.
Board and itsstanding committees performed in the year.
Details of this process can be found on page 77.
The Code requires the Board to confirm that the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable Committee activities in 2016 assessment of the Groups position and performance, We held a total of five meetings during 2016 and another business model and strategy.
We assist the Board in giving in2017 prior to finalisation of the 2016 Annual Results.
Key this confirmation, including review of the procedures matters we considered are shown on the right hand column undertaken to assess this.
These procedures included review of the previous page.
of the Annual Report by operational management as well as Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Finally, they included Internal controls and risk management review and consideration by the Audit Committee and the The Audit Committee assists the Board in its responsibility Board themselves.
toensure the operation of effective systems of internal control and risk management appropriate to the Groups In addition, we review other financial communications with business.
Day-to-day operating and financial responsibility the market in the form of announcements and analyst rests with senior management and performance is closely presentations.
We also review the effectiveness of the External monitored throughout the year.
Further details of our responsibilities are detailed in the Committees Terms of Reference, which are published on the Where significant issues and or risks are identified, the Companys website at www.
The Terms of Committee ensures management has taken appropriate Reference are reviewed annually and are approved by the actions to address them.
Enterprise Risk Management I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions The Committee keeps apprised of the state of internal control shareholders may have about the work of the Committee and and risk management through regular reports from the Group also at other times if shareholders request.
governance functions including risk, compliance and Internal Audit.
Membership My colleagues on the Audit Committee are Andrew Dark Minutes from the Groups Enterprise Risk Management andBrahm Gelfand, each of whom is an Independent Committee are also received and reviewed by the Audit Non-Executive Director, as am I.
My previous background as Committee.
A Group-wide review of enterprise risk was asenior audit partner in a Big Four accounting firm provides undertaken during the reporting period.
The top business me with the appropriate recent and relevant financial risks were identified with owners assigned and mitigation experience to chair the Committee.
The experience of the plans implemented.
The Committee will continue to receive other members of the Audit Committee is shown in their updates on risk mitigation status, together with other biographies on pages 62 to 63. changes in risk profile, including emerging risks.
In addition, the Committee gains assurance on the effectiveness of The following also attend Committee meetings by invitation Enterprise Risk Management through control assessments to report on developments in their areas: performed as part of Internal Audit, compliance activities and third-party reviews undertaken on business operations.
- The Group External Auditor: - The Group Chief Financial Officer: Internal Audit - The General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer: The Internal Audit function provides a key source of - The Chief Operating Officer: independent assurance to the Committee on the state of the - The Group Financial Controller: internal control environment.
The Committee approves the - The Group Internal Auditor: Group Internal Audit Plan and required resource on an annual - The Group Head of Enterprise Risk Management: basis, with quarterly updates provided by the Group Internal Auditor on audit activities against plan, and significant issues - The Group Privacy Officer: and and or risks identified from work undertaken.
The Group - Other senior staff from compliance, risk and information Internal Auditor also reports relevant matters to the boards security.
ofthe Groups regulated entities in line with the corporate governance established at business unit level.
The Committee also meets privately with each of the Group External Auditor and the Group Internal Auditor in the absence of management to review matters within their sphere of interest and responsibility.
com 69 Report of the Audit Committee continued KEY ELEMENTS OF THE GROUPS SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL 2.
Identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives - The Company has an established Enterprise Risk Management Framework, which identifies major risks, mitigation strategies and risk tolerance.
Risks are identified and then assessed in terms of 1.
Control environment impact and likelihood.
Risk tolerance and appetite is defined for - Codes of conduct, supported by executive-led Group values, guide the top-ranking risks.
a high standard of ethics and integrity at all levels of the organisation and in the Companys dealings with external - Based on risk assessment, management responses are developed, stakeholders.
resources prioritised and agreed mitigations are implemented.
- Ongoing monitoring of the risk profile tracks changes in risk - Business unit level governance and organisation structure, andensures mitigation strategies are adjusted in response.
supported by Group level corporate functions, ensures core service lines are adequately planned, delivered and monitored to achieve - Risk assessments are carried out at least on an annual basis, the Groups overall objectives.
andrisk owners and associated risk mitigation strategies are - Cross-functional executive committees, chaired by executive reconfirmed following each assessment.
Risk owners are briefed management, focus on core areas of risk, including cyber risk, on their role and responsibilities.
privacy, credit risk and regulatory compliance.
- Risk mitigations are validated through declarations from risk owners and independent assessment as part of internal audits.
- Appropriate documented delegation of authority, coupled with clear escalation paths, achieves timely decision-making and response to critical issues.
Information and corrective action communication - Each business unit supporting the - Business activity is closely tracked Groups service lines has established against operating plans, budgets and its own monitoring process forecasts, with significant variances appropriate to its operational investigated promptly.
activities, reporting progress against - Key performance measures are objectives to the business unit defined and reported on monthly, management and Group covering financial performance, seniormanagement.
compliance, operational risk and - Business unit level management, operational activities, accompanied supported by Group level finance by narrative on associated issues andgovernance functions, provides andrisks for awareness and further oversight of business unit operations, discussion where warranted.
advising and or intervening as - Key performance measures are needed to ensure principal policies, reviewed and challenged at executive processes and procedures are being management and Board Committee followed inthe achievement of meetings.
- The Internal Audit function carries out periodic reviews of business activities, adopting a risk-based approach in alignment with the Groups Enterprise 4.
Control procedures are defined by the Risk Management Framework.
business, with input from the governance Wheredeficiencies are identified, functions, and are designed to ensure: management action plans are agreed - Complete and accurate accounting for transactions.
and high priority actions tracked to - Compliance with the laws and regulations in each completion, with progress reported ofthejurisdictions in which the Group operates.
ona regular basis to management andthe Audit Committee.
- Employees are granted limits of authority appropriate totheir role, competency and seniority.
- The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes an annual review - Reliability and integrity of the systems providing ofthe effectiveness of the Groups risk information that informs decision-making.
management and internal - Appropriate oversight of business activities controlsystems.
commensurate with their criticality and associated risk.
On the basis of the outcomes reported by the business management, the Groups committees, Internal Audit and External Audit, the Committee and the Board consider the Groups system of internal control to be effective.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 70 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION During the year, as in the prior year, the Audit Committee Internal control assessed the performance and effectiveness of the Internal The diagram on the preceding page outlines key elements of Audit process.
This was done primarily through the use of an theGroups system of internal control.
The Groups internal audit quality questionnaire, in which the primary control environment is designed to identify, evaluate and management stakeholders involved in each audit throughout manage the risks faced by the Group.
Of course it cannot, the year were invited to provide feedback on the audit anddoes not, eliminate all risks: instead it seeks to manage process.
The results of the overall assessment were presented risk to a level within the Groups aim of achieving its to the Committee, and indicated that Internal Audit had been businessobjectives.
Significant issues The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
Periodically, at Audit Committee meetings management presents a paper on significant accounting policies and estimates.
TheCommittee has considered all significant estimates and judgements as identified in Note 4 to the financial statements, however the main areas of focus during the year are set out below.
Significant issues the Committee hasconsidered How the Committee addressed these issues Business combinations The valuations and accounting papers prepared by The Group continued to grow inorganically during the year management were reviewed and considered by the Audit as a result of two separate acquisitions concluded in 2016, Committee, to confirm that the valuations and accounting described in Note 25 to the financial statements.
The treatments adopted were appropriate.
This included: acquisitions required an assessment of fair value of assets i. reviewing the assumptions used in the business valuations acquired and liabilities assumed.
The excess of the including cash flows and discount rates: consideration paid resulted in a material increase in the ii.
considering the key inputs used to determine the fair value Groups goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
of the intangible assets: and iii.
reviewing the approach taken to identify acquired intangible assets and challenging the allocation to goodwill.
The Committee was satisfied that management exercised sound judgement in identifying and valuing assets.
Additional information is included in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Impairment reviews have been performed by management Impairment testing of long-lived assets onthe Groups cash-generating units to which these assets As at 31 December 2016, the Group had goodwill balances have been allocated.
Cash flow forecasts used were based totalling approximately $1.2bn and other intangible onanalysis obtained during due diligence on those businesses assets totalling approximately $364m.
acquired during the year and vetted by management, along with budgets approved by the Board, applying assumed growth rates thereafter.
The key assumptions applied to future growth rates and discount rates, along with sensitivity analysis regarding these assumptions, were reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee was satisfied with managements assessment that there was no impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets as at 31 December 2016.
Please refer to Notes 5 and 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has reviewed papers from management Restructuring and acquisition-related costs supporting the treatment of those costs that pertain to the Restructuring and acquisition-related costs amounted current years acquisitions and integration of Skrill and other to $5.6m and $2.2m respectively during the year.
These costs significant acquisitions as exceptional items.
were incurred as a result of the business combinations andintegration efforts and are excluded from the Groups The Committee is satisfied that management has consistently adjustedEBITDA see Note 23 and are disclosed separately applied its criteria in presenting these items in the year.
asexceptional items see Notes 22 and 25. www.
com 71 Report of the Audit Committee continued Significant issues the Committee hasconsidered How the Committee addressed these issues The Committee has reviewed the appropriateness of the Cash and cash equivalents Groups presentation and disclosure within the Statements As at 31 December 2016, the Groups cash and cash offinancial position and cash flows and Notes to the financial equivalents amounted to approximately $231.2m.
This balance is exclusive of any additional balances of cash subject to regulatory requirements relating to segregated The Committee has had ongoing oversight over customer funds restricted cash, see Note 9 to the financial managements process to enhance the transparency on statements or amounts due to be settled to the Group reporting the Groups cash and cash equivalents since the from various sources settlement assets.
The Group has previous year.
significant balances in its accounts as a result of the transaction processing activities in its operating divisions.
The Committee is satisfied that management has consistently The classification of cash and cash equivalents are at risk applied its criteria in presenting and disclosing these items of being misstated as a result of the timing of transactions inthe year.
and settlement to the Groups accounts.
Revenue recognition As described within the Key elements of the Groups system The Group earns revenue from multiple streams of ofinternal control section, the Committee has reviewed transaction types which are derived from several operating reporting from management, the Group Internal Auditor, and platforms, including those introduced in the current year the External Auditor surrounding the operational effectiveness as a result of the acquisitions described in Note 25 to the of the Groups internal control environment and system financial statements.
Consequently, the risk that revenue integrity throughout the year.
recognised is misstated is heightened.
The Groups The Committee is satisfied that the Group operates recognition of revenue is dependent on the integrity of its appropriate processes and controls in respect of its operating information technology environments which are used platforms which underpin revenue recognition.
toprocess transactions and calculate revenue on each transaction type, along with the operating effectiveness ofapplication and core finance processes and controls.
External Audit Independence of the External Auditor KPMG Audit LLC was appointed as the Groups External Oversight of the External Audit process Auditor in 2005.
Russell Kelly, the current Audit Partner, was To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the External Audit appointed in 2012.
We are mindful of the changes to the process, the Audit Committee reviewed: requirements for external auditor selection, in light of reviews - the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and by the Competition Commission and the EU.
Whilst we do not scope of the audit as set out in the External Auditors currently consider it necessary to have a policy for rotation engagement letter for the forthcoming year: ofexternal audit firms, in 2016 we undertook a formal tender - the External Auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming process for the provision of external audit services.
Following year: completion of the tender process, the Committee - the External Auditors fee proposal: recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be appointed - the major issues that arose during the course of the audit asthe Groups External Auditor for the audit of the Groups and their resolution: 2017 results.
A summary of the audit tender process - key accounting and audit judgements and estimates: isincluded on page 73.
- the levels of errors identified during the audit: and The Audit Committee confirms that the Group has complied - recommendations made by the External Auditor in their with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authority management letters and the adequacy of managements Order throughout its financial year ended 31 December 2016 response.
and up to the date of this report.
The Audit Committee meets privately with the External Auditor in the absence of management to review matters within their sphere of interest and responsibility.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 72 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER PROCESS 7 1 In the 2015 Annual Report, Paysafe Group announced its All bidders had access to the same information by making intention to undertake a formal tender process for the External useofavirtual data room.
They also had equal access Audit of the Groups results from 2017 onward to maintain tomanagement and the Audit Committee to ensure a level goodgovernance and independence and to meet its statutory playingfield.
obligation in accordance with the Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Regulations 2016.
8 The evaluation process incorporated both quantitative scoring and qualitative feedback based on selection criteria 2 derived from the audit tender objectives, with all aspects The Audit Committee, represented by its Chairman, was approved by the Audit Committee.
The evaluation was a responsible for initiating and supervising the entire tender two-phase approach, the first being the bidders performance processfrom inception to making its recommendation to inface-to-face Q&A sessions and the second being a review theBoard.
Arequest for proposal RFP committee was ofthe written reply to the RFP from each bidder.
established to support the Committee in setting the RFP terms and evaluating the bids.
9 RFP committee members then submitted their completed 3 scoresheet directly to the Group Procurement Manager, Indications of interest were sought from the following five together with qualitative feedback and a summary ranking audit firms including the incumbent: ofthe four bidders.
- BDO - Deloitte 10 Neither the Chief Financial Officer nor the Chairman of the - EY Audit Committee took part in the scoring to preserve their - KPMG independence.
- PwC The firms were identified based on the following factors: 11 Based on the evaluation process two bidders were chosen to - payment sector experience make a presentation to the Audit Committee which took place - geographical coverage in the Isle of Man in November 2016 with the Chief Financial - previous knowledge of the firm through non-audit work Officer and Financial Controller both present.
carried out for the Company 12 In accordance with the regulations, the Audit Committee 4 recommended both KPMG and Deloitte to the Board with a Positive responses were received from four firms however preference for the tender to be awarded to Deloitte.
The Board PwC declined to participate as it preferred to serve Paysafe by endorsed the recommendation, following which KPMG agreed continuing to provide non-audit services.
to resign at the conclusion of the audit of the 2016 financial statements.
5 Clear roles and responsibilities for governing the process were established, including single internal and external points 13 Following KPMGs resignation, the Board will appoint Deloitte of contact for those involved.
All Paysafe employees involved LLP as Auditors in their place, and a resolution proposing their inthe tender process were reminded of the Companys reappointment will be put to shareholders at the Annual Anti-Bribery and Corruption procedures.
6 A detailed RFP, setting out the selection criteria, evaluation process and timetable, was issued at the end of August 2016. www.
com 73 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Board recognises the importance of Auditor The Audit Committee confirms that the Group has complied independence and is aware of the situations that may give with the new EU rules in relation to non-audit fees to the rise to the impairment of Auditor independence.
The Audit Auditor which came into force in 2016.
Committee carefully considers the objectivity of the Auditor Performance of the External Auditor on an annual basis, in relation to both the audit process and To assess the effectiveness of the External Auditor, the the relationship with the Group.
Committee reviewed: The Groups approach to engaging the External Auditor for the - the External Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan performance of audit and other services ensures that those and variations from it: services: - reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the - Are approved by appropriate levels of Paysafe Group plc course of the audit: and management: - feedback from key management personnel evaluating the - Do not impair the independence of the External Auditor: performance of the Auditor.
and Taking into account all matters reported to the Committee, - Are regularly considered by the Audit Committee.
and the activities in which the Committee has been involved Any engagement of the External Auditor must satisfy during the reporting period, we believe the Company applicable rules and legislation.
The External Auditor is only complied with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, to be appointed when they are best suited to undertake the Internal Control and Related Financial and Business work and do not have a conflict of interest due to a Reporting, published in 2014, throughout the period up to the relationship with another entity.
date on which these financial statements were approved.
The Companys policy and procedures in respect of services 2017 objectives provided by the External Auditor are set out in a formal policy Looking ahead, the Committee will remain focused on the updated during the course of the year and approved by the audit, assurance and risk processes within the business, and Committee.
This policy sets out specific considerations to be strengthen its oversight of financial and other regulatory taken account of to preserve the independence of the Auditor.
Specific areas we will be addressing include: The procedures require decisions to be sought and recorded - Ensuring a seamless transition of the External Audit: in writing to ensure the policy is followed.
- Contributing to the establishment of a new standing Board Risk Committee: The Committee has defined the services that may not be provided by the External Auditor in any circumstances.
- Strengthening the reach and capabilities of the Groups Theseinclude: Internal Audit function: and - Further enhancement of the Groups external reporting - Due diligence on acquisitions: processes in line with best practice and latest guidance.
- Book-keeping, preparation of, and other services in relation to, accounting records and financial statements: We look forward to reporting to shareholders on these and - The design and implementation of financial information other matters in our report next year.
systems, or financial controls: Ian Francis - Valuation services, appraisals or fairness opinions: Audit Committee Chairman - Outsourced internal audit services: and 6 March 2017 - Tax services of any kind.
The approval of the Audit Committee or me as Chairman isrequired for the provision of any services by the External Auditor where the fees for non-audit work are estimated toexceed the greater of $100,000 or 10% of the total audit fee.
In light of the latest FRC guidance in this area, we will be reviewing this approval process during the current year.
During 2016, the fees for non-audit services provided by ourExternal Auditor, as disclosed in Note 29 to the financial statements, were approximately 23% of the audit fees, dueinparticular to assurance services relating to serviceorganisation controls on certain of the Groups merchant-facing platforms which the Auditor was best placedto continue to provide.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 74
