OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Report of the Nomination Committee Key activities of the Nomination Committee in 2016: Performance and reappointment: - Review of performance of Directors and consideration of proposals for reappointment.
Non-Executive Director recruitment: - Thorough planning and then execution of the Non-Executive Director recruitment process.
- Determining candidate profile and then shortlist for Non-Executive Director appointments.
- Recommending to and agreeing with the Board the final Non-Executive Director candidates for Andrew Dark appointment.
Nomination Committee Chairman Board evaluation: - Selection of external facilitator for the Board This has been an active year for the evaluation.
Our primary Succession planning: aim in the past year has been to assist - Commencement of discussions on succession the Board in the appointment of planning to be continued once the new Board appointments were made.
We view this role to beamongst the most important oftheBoards responsibilities.
Theappointments we have made should be of great benefit to the Company in the years ahead.
Tenure of Directors full years since appointment 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Membership Our Committee comprises Ian Francis and Dennis Jones, the Dennis Jones Board Chairman, as well as myself as Committee Chairman.
2 years In our activities as a Committee, Dennis, Ian and I have Joel Leonoff worked closely with our Executive and Non-Executive Board 6 years colleagues at each stage to ensure that the recommendations we make are properly informed as well as carefully Brian McArthur-Muscroft considered.
2 years Director recruitment Andrew Dark During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the 2 years Boards skillsets and, with a view to the evolution of the Board Ian Francis over time, desirable characteristics appropriate for 6 years appointments to the Board.
Brahm Gelfand Having determined the appropriate profile for the candidates 3 years to be sought, the Committee commenced the process for Ian Jenks recruitment of a new Independent Non-Executive Director and met initial candidates.
2 years The Board had concluded at the beginning of the year to As detailed in his biography on page 61 Mr Leonoff has served in anexecutive capacity with constituent Group members since 1997. undertake the process of Director recruitment with the benefit of a track record as a constituent of the FTSE 250.
The appointments of Jennifer Allerton and Karen Guerra are effective from 7 March 2017. www.
com 75 Report of the Nomination Committee continued This had the intended benefit of attracting a full range also confirmed that each Director keeps under review their ofquality appropriate candidates.
It also allowed the results commitments outside the Company to ensure that they are of the Companys first  evaluation of the able to continue to devote the necessary time to the Board to be taken into account in determining the Company.
Following our evaluation of the performance of the Directors, One of the key considerations in the recruitment process was Dennis Jones, as Chairman of the Board, has confirmed that diversity, both in terms of the balance of skills and experience all our Non-Executive Directors continue to demonstrate of the Board and other considerations, such as gender and commitment to their roles and their performance continues geographic residence.
We actively considered women as well to be effective.
as men for appointment as part of our policy to achieve The coming year gender diversity on the Board.
Having completed the recent appointments to the Board, To assist us in the search, we engaged Odgers Berndtson, wewill focus in the coming year on succession planning both aleading recruitment consultancy with no other connection at Board level and within senior management.
A summary of the process undertaken is shown continue on from the discussions in the past year as well as below.
We were delighted that the process resulted in the build upon work already done.
We look forward to reporting appointment of two excellent and experienced Independent on these and other matters next year.
Non-Executive Directors, Jennifer Allerton and Karen Guerra.
They significantly add to the strength and depth of our Board Andrew Dark and also bring welcome diversity.
Nomination Committee Chairman 6 March 2017 Performance reviews An evaluation of the Board took place to assess the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
This was facilitated by an experienced external specialist in this area, Independent Board Evaluation.
Whilst the Board is required NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR RECRUITMENT under the Code to conduct an  Board PROCESS evaluation every three years, it considered undertaking such 1 an evaluation in the first year of the Companys Premium Odgers Berndtson was selected to assist in the Listing appropriate as part of its commitment to achieving recruitment of at least one additional Non-Executive best practice in corporate governance.
Evaluation was appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee after it had 2 conducted a selection process considering a range of A candidate profile was recommended by the different providers.
The process and findings are summarised Nomination Committee and agreed with the Board.
3 During the year, regular discussions took place between the In line with the agreed profile, a longlist of candidates Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, without the presence were selected by Odgers Berndtson.
There has also been a meeting among the Non-Executive Directors to review the 4 In consultation with the Board, a shortlist performance of the Chairman in his absence.
of candidates were selected by the Nomination Committee based on objective criteria and fit with Annual General Meeting the rest of the Board.
In accordance with the Code, at each Annual General Meeting of the Company, all Directors retire and, if the Board considers 5 appropriate, they may be proposed for re-appointment.
In The shortlist of candidates were interviewed by the deciding whether to propose the re-appointment of each Nomination Committee and all met with the Executive Director, the Board acts on the advice of the Nomination Directors and the recommendations of the Committee Committee.
were reported to the Board.
Following review of the results of the evaluation of the Board, 6 the Committee has confirmed that each of the Directors has The final two candidates then met the Executive devoted, and continues to devote, the necessary time to their Directors prior to completion of the appointment roles in the Company.
Given Ian Francis has now served on procedures.
the Board for six years, Dennis Jones and I reviewed his independence in particular.
We confirmed that Ian not only 7 These candidates were then appointed by the Board.
remains fully independent, he also performs an invaluable role as a Director and as Audit Committee Chairman.
We have Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 76 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION BOARD EVALUATION Stage 1: Appointment of Stage 4: Reporting Stage 5: Action IBE prepared a comprehensive report Following presentation of the report External Facilitator including separate feedback from within byIBE, the Board reviewed and discussed - A total of eight recognised specialist and from outside the Board and its the reports conclusions and agreed firms considered.
Committees, along with external actions for the coming year to seek further - Shortlist of three firms selected by the benchmarking, and IBEs analysis and improvement where appropriate.
These Nomination Committee for interview recommendations.
This included reviews actions include the following areas: bythe Board.
and comment on the following areas: - Enhancements around Board - Following the interviews, the Board, - Board composition and culture.
inagreement with the Nomination Committee, appointed Independent - Board focus and decision making.
- Building on the processes in relation Board Evaluation IBE who have toM&A, enhancements in relation - Group strategy.
noother connection with the Group.
toongoing determination of long-term - Risk management.
- Recommendations by IBE following - Governance and compliance.
- Appointment and induction of new initial meetings with the Chairman and - Succession planning.
Senior Independent Director on the - Relationship with senior management.
process to be undertaken were followed - Planning to refresh the memberships - The schedule of meetings.
ofthe Committees as part of - Papers and presentations.
- Planning a specific Board Committee - Shareholder accountability and on Risk to expand further on the work interface.
already undertaken by the Audit - The Committees.
- Increasing the visibility of the Board Stage 2: Interviews andits activities more broadly in the The report on the Board was first To provide a 360 degree review of the Group, including by holding one of its discussed with the Chairman and then Board and its Committees, IBE meetings in an overseas location.
presented by IBE to the full Board interviewed: atanespecially convened meeting.
- The members of senior management Reports regarding the Committees were who most regularly interact with the reviewed and discussed by each Board or its Committees.
- The senior representatives of the key A report regarding the Chairman was Stage 6: Monitoring external advisors of the Board and its presented to the Senior Independent The Board plans that: Committees.
Director, who then held a feedback session - There will be regular reviews during the with the Chairman.
year and a full review within a year Reports regarding other individual tomonitor and confirm the progress Directors were presented to the Chairman against the agreed actions.
who then held feedback sessions with - This progress will be reported on in the each of the other Directors.
Companys Annual Report next year.
Stage 3: Observation Whilst noting the considerable progress Over a two-day period, IBE attended the made by the Board and its Committees complete meetings of the Board, of its over the past two years, IBE identified a Audit and Nomination Committees, and number of areas where further ofthe Non-Executive Directors to observe improvement could be made in line with their proceedings, Director interactions FTSE 250 best practice.
These included and decision-making processes.
observations in relation to the role and culture of the Board, and information IBE discussed the operation of the flows to and from the Board.
Remuneration Committee with its Chairman as it was not meeting on thesedays.
