OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Board of Directors Focused on delivering our strategic ambition Dennis Jones Joel Leonoff Brian McArthur-Muscroft Non-Executive Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Committee membership: N Joel is an entrepreneurial leader and Prior to joining the Group as CFO on 1 Dennis was appointed to the Board as avisionary with a proven track record January 2015, Brian was Group Finance Non-Executive Chairman on 30 July 2014. ofmanaging high-growth technology Director at Telecity Group plc where he led He has had extensive experience in the companies, having served as CEO, COO and the IPO of the business in 2007 and raised payments and payment processing sectors, CFO of privately and publicly traded 400m in senior debt facilities with major UK having held executive roles in the UK, companies for nearly 20 years.
Brian was chosen as Business mainland Europe, China and the US.
He founded SureFire Commerce Inc. which Weeks Finance Director of the Year in 2013 currently divides his time between Paysafe merged with the Optimal Group in 2003 and ICAEWs FTSE 250 Finance Director and TSYS International.
Dennis was formerly toform Optimal Payments, now known ofthe Year in 2012.
Since May 2013, he has a Director, President and Chief Executive asPaysafe Group plc.
Joel was appointed as served as a Non-Executive Director on the Officer of RBS National Bank in the US, a an Executive Director and Co-CEO of the Board of Robert Walters plc.
Also a Non-Executive Director of Argus Information Group on 1 February 2011 and President restructuring specialist, Brian was the Services Inc. a US provider of data analytics and CEO on 1 August 2011.
Prior to this, Joel Interim CFO on the successful turnaround to payment providers across the US, Latin created the e-commerce powerhouse BCE ofMCI Worldcom EMEA.
Brian holds a law America and the UK, and a Non-Executive Emergis through the merger of Mpact degree and qualified as a Chartered Director of Kroger Personal Finance LLC Immedia Ltd with Bell Canada Enterprises.
Accountant with  thefinancial services arm of the Kroger Joel also served as Group Operations inLondon.
Corporation, the second largest retailer in Director and COO of Partygaming plc, a FTSE the US.
Until December 2015, Dennis was listed company.
Joel is a Chartered Non-Executive Chairman of Paysafe Accountant with a Bachelor of Commerce Financial Services Limited, a wholly-owned degree James McGill Award and has a subsidiary of the Company.
Dennis is also Graduate Diploma in Public Accountancy aChartered Engineer and a member of The C. D. Mellor Award from McGill University.
Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Our Committees A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration Chair of the Committee Appointed effective 7 March 2017 www.
com 61 Board of Directors continued Jennifer Allerton Andrew Dark Ian Francis Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director A N R A N Committee membership: Committee membership: Andrew joined the Board on 30 July 2014 as Ian was appointed to the Board on 1 Jennifer has been appointed to the Board a Non-Executive Director and is Chairman of September 2010 as a Non-Executive Director effective 7 March 2017 as a Non-Executive the Nomination Committee.
He is currently and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jennifer has a wealth of Chief Executive Officer of Displaydata Hewas a senior audit partner with Ernst international experience in payments Limited, Chairman of Miura Systems Limited &Young London until 2009, responsible for technology, data innovation, operations and a Director of New Era Sports Digital anumber of the firms leading audit clients andIT strategy.
She is the former CIO of the Limited.
Andrew was formerly Chief and specialising in FTSE-listed and pharmaceutical division of Hoffmann-La Executive Officer of the online payments multinational companies.
He also served as Roche, where she was a member of the company Datacash Group plc during its a Non-Executive Director of Umeme Limited, pharmaceutical executive committee which period of rapid growth: it was subsequently the privatised national power distribution doubled sales and quadrupled profits in a sold to Mastercard.
He is the former Chief company of Uganda, from September 2009 five-year period.
Before joining Hoffmann Executive Officer of mBlox Limited, which to November 2014, supporting the initial LaRoche, Jennifer was Technology Director facilitates communication between turnaround of the business and the of Barclaycard and played a key role in businesses and customers mobile devices.
subsequent successful listings on the itsmove to data mining and customer He was also a Director of the payments Uganda and Nairobi Securities Exchanges.
She was also a Non-Executive company Dione plc.
Ian established and chaired Umemes Audit Director on the Board of Oxford Instruments and Remuneration Committees.
Jennifer is currently a Non-Executive anactive mentor at Board Mentoring, Director on the boards of Sandvik AB, a supporting Executive and Non-Executive Swedish listed engineering group: S&P 500 Directors stepping into new situations and Iron Mountain Inc. an information roles.
Ian is also Chairman of the Board management services company: and Aveva ofPrepaid Services Company Limited, Group plc, a FTSE 250 software and services aregulated subsidiary of Paysafe.
Jennifer is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and holds a BSc in Mathematics from Imperial College and anMSc in Physics from the University Board composition ofManitoba.
Chairman: 1 Independent Non-Executives: 6 Executives: 2 Including Jennifer Allerton and Karen Guerra appointed effective 7 March 2017 Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 62 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Brahm Gelfand Karen Guerra Ian Jenks Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director A R R Committee membership: Committee membership: Brahm was appointed a Director on 13 Karen has been appointed to the Board Ian joined the Board on 30 July 2014 as a March 2014.
He is a practising lawyer in effective 7 March 2017 as a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director and is Chairman of Montreal, Canada and is counsel to Lapointe Director.
She has significant senior-level the Remuneration Committee.
Ian has more Rosenstein Marchand Melanon LLP, where experience in the consumer goods sector, than 30 years of board-level experience he previously served as a partner.
Brahm is having been Managing Director and inthe communications and industrial currently a Director of Dundee Sustainable Chairman of Colgate-Palmolives UK technology fields, both as an investor Technologies Inc.
He is also a member of the company between 1996-1999, followed by andasChief Executive Officer of companies Independent Review Committee of 1832 heading the larger French subsidiary operating in the US and Europe.
He is Asset Management LP, an indirect subsidiary between 1999-2006 operating across Oral, currently Executive Chairman of Brady plc, of the Bank of Nova Scotia, and is Chairman Personal & Household Care.
Prior to Colgate, an AIM quoted provider of trading and risk of the Independent Review Committee of Karen worked for PepsiCo and in UK food management software to the global Goodman Investment Counsel, a subsidiary retailing.
She is a Non-Executive Director commodity and energy markets.
Ian was of Dundee Corporation.
Until April 2015, ofDavide Campari-Milano SpA, an Italian formerly a partner of Crescendo Ventures Brahm was a Director of two leading beverages company: Amcor, an ASX listed LLP in Palo Alto, USA and Chairman of Montreal healthcare institutions: the Sir packaging group: and Electrocomponents, Oplink Communications Incorporated, Mortimer B. Davis Jewish General Hospital aFTSE 250 distributor of electronics, apublicly-listed company on the NASDAQ and the Douglas Mental Health University automation and control components.
Ian is an associate member of the Institute.
He is also a founding Director Shepreviously served as a Non-Executive Institution of Mechanical Engineers and has ofthe Summit School Foundation and Director of Inchcape plc and Swedish Match a BSc in Aeronautical Engineering from theRoasters Foundation.
Karen holds a BSc in Management Bristol University.
