Chairmans introduction to Governance A year of significant progress ofGroup culture.
We see these as key to achieving and then demonstrating the achievement of shareholder value and stakeholder engagement.
Key developments in the area of governance in the past year include the following: - Board evaluation As planned, we completed our first  evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
We undertook a particularly thorough process and are seeking to maximise the value from its results.
Further details are provided in the Report of the Nomination Committee onpage 77.
- Director recruitment Again as planned, our Nomination Committee undertook aNon-Executive Director recruitment process.
This has resulted in the appointment of two excellent new Independent Non-Executive Directors, Jennifer Allerton and Karen Guerra, also bringing welcome diversity to the Board.
The recruitment process is commented on further in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 76.
- Audit tender Also in line with its plans, our Audit Committee undertook atender process in relation to our external audit.
TheCommittee considered five different firms for the role Dear shareholders, and this is reported on further in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 73.
The past year has seen very significant - Remuneration progress and development in terms As was set out in last years Annual Report, our Remuneration Committee developed a new ongoing ofPaysafes corporate governance remuneration policy for the Companys Directors.
This was arrangements as well as its business approved by an 87% majority of votes cast at last years AGM.
The result of the more historically focused advisory activities.
resolution on remuneration, and remuneration matters more generally, are reported on in the Report of the We started 2016 already fully compliant with the UK Remuneration Committee commencing on page 78.
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We had previously established governance procedures and processes to ensure - Shareholder engagement that all our obligations as a FTSE 250 constituent were met.
As recommended by the Code, Ian Jenks, our Senior AsI mentioned in last years Annual Report, we already had Independent Director, and I held meetings with many our sights on further developments as part of our philosophy ofPaysafes largest shareholders to discuss governance of continuous improvement.
These meetings are reported on further inthe Report of the Board on page 67.
I am pleased to report that those plans and others developed during the year have been achieved.
Details are included later - Governance structure in this report.
These achievements reflect our approach The governance structure below Board level was reviewed togovernance which includes both ethical operation of the by the Board and a high-level summary of the senior levels Group and transparent reporting by the Board as key parts of this is shown on page 59.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 58
