Report of the Board Some of the key matters the Board Managing the considered during the year were: Corporate transactions: - The integration and performance of the FANS business at the Entertainment Inc. and Skrill businesses since they were acquired by the Company in May 2015 and August 2015 respectively.
- The acquisitions of MeritCard and Income Access highest level andthe integration of these within the Group.
- Consideration and approval of the Companys share buyback plan.
Our Board is the core decision-making forum for the Group, managing its Financial reporting and shareholder communications: business and corporate affairs at the - Approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, highest level.
thehalf-year results and trading updates, including related reports from management and the The Board establishes and monitors the implementation AuditCommittee.
It overseas the allocation of human, - Ensuring the maintenance of an ongoing dialogue financial and other resources to achieve the Companys with shareholders through regular communications overall aims.
It reviews ongoing performance, risk by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
This role is important inany company.
It is particularly important in a high-growth Business planning and monitoring business like Paysafe.
We view the Boards role as critical of performance: toensuring the great success the Group has achieved in past - The Groups budget, updates to this and monitoring years continues into the future.
This builds on as well as ofperformance throughout the year.
complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance - Review and discussion of reports from the President Code the Code.
- External and internal reviews of information security In carrying out its role, the Board, along with its Committees: governance.
- considers strategic issues and ensures the Group manages risks: Corporate matters: - monitors and oversees the Groups operations, ensuring - Receiving and considering reports from the Audit, they are appropriately planned and managed with proper Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
procedures for the maintenance of adequate accounting, - Appointing Jennifer Allerton and Karen Guerra as information security, and systems to monitor performance Non-Executive Directors.
and internal controls: - The appointment of Brunswick LLP as the Companys - ensures appropriate resources are in place to achieve the corporate PR agency.
Groups strategy and maximise shareholder value over the - Reviewing and approving the governance structure long term: and below Board level.
- leads in a way that promotes the Groups standards and - Reviewing and approving new Group policies values and sets the tone for our management, employees including the Paysafe share dealing code and and other stakeholders across the Group.
policiesreferred to in the Culture and values section on page 42.
Our Directors take collective responsibility for the Boards - Monitoring the implementation of actions agreed performance and are fully committed to achieving the atprevious meetings.
Groups long-term objectives and strategy.
I, as Chairman, - Reviewing preparedness for external events.
seek to maximise the contributions of each Director as part ofus all working together as an effective Board.
All Directors Evaluation: ensure they devote sufficient time to the responsibilities - Undergoing an  independent required for their respective roles, as well as their general evaluation of the Board and its Committees as set out responsibilities as Directors.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 64 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION BOARD COMPOSITION AND ROLES Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Dennis Jones Joel Leonoff Responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its Responsible for executive leadership of the Group and the effectiveness.
Aims for a culture of openness and debate in the Board development of the Groups long-term strategy for consideration and to ensure the effective contribution of both Executive and approval by the Board.
Ensures that the day-to-day running of the Non-Executive Directors.
Promotes high ethical standards and best Group and its performance is in accordance with the strategic goals practice in corporate governance.
that the Board has approved.
Acts as a liaison between the Board and executive management of the Group.
With other Directors and Led the Board through the  evaluation, reported management as appropriate, communicates on behalf of the Group on more fully on page 77.
In consultation with the other Directors, to shareholders, employees, Government authorities, other setdetailed objectives for the Board to cover the conclusions arising stakeholders and the public.
Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer Ian Jenks Brian McArthur-Muscroft Supports the Chairman on governance matters.
Acts as a sounding Supports the Chief Executive Officer in devising and implementing board for the Chairman and other Directors.
Along with the Chairman, strategy in relation to the monitoring and review of financial and met with significant shareholders of the Company, as recommended operational performance of the Group.
Leads on all financial and by the Code, to review governance matters.
Available to shareholders related matters of the Group both on the Board and within or employees if they have concerns which contact through the management.
Oversees other corporate functions, including human normal channels of communication have not resolved or for which resources and risk management.
Led the annual appraisal of the Chairmans Acts as an additional liaison between the Board and management performance.
Communicates on behalf of the Group to shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Jennifer Allerton, Andrew Dark, Ian Francis, Brahm Gelfand, Karen Guerra and Ian Jenks Responsible for bringing sound judgement, objectivity and a breadth of skills and experience to the Board.
Provide a unique perspective towards strategy, risk management, corporate governance and succession planning.
Constructively challenge and contribute to the development of the Groups strategy.
Monitor and review with management the performance of the Group.
Appointed to the Board effective 7 March 2017 www.
com 65 Report of the Board continued ENTREPRENEURIAL CULTURE As outlined on page 10, building an entrepreneurial, The Board believes that a strong, empowering and empowered culture forms one of the Companys five strategic entrepreneurial culture within a controlled and risk aware pillars: our culture is embodied by our values of being environment is imperative to the Groups ongoing generation courageous, pioneering, open and focused.
of value over the long-term.
The Board is mindful of the report on Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and considers that its responsibility for strong corporate governance and setting Our strategic pillars the tone from the top is vital in shaping the culture and embedding these values throughout the Group.
1 Sustainable organic growth The Board has set a number of priorities on culture in 2017, 2 State-of-the-art technology which include those set out at the end of the diagram on Board evaluation on page 77 and summarised below.
3 Relevant, niche-oriented solutions Aims on culture 4 Entrepreneurial culture Strategic and cultural vision 5 Bold M&A Ensure behaviour throughout the Group is consistent with its strategic and cultural vision and values.
Our values Information flow Enable the flow of information both from and to management and the Board.
Enhanced processes Utilising informal as well as formal time to build on Board culture.
Stakeholder engagement Courageous Pioneering Open Focused Ongoing open dialogue with internal and external stakeholders.
The Board has a formal written schedule of matters reserved The Board recognises the importance of diversity in the for its decision and comprehensive written terms of reference boardroom and throughout the business.
It recognises this have been established for each of the Boards Committees.
inits aim to recruit the best people who can add the most These ensure that key decisions and other matters such value to the Board.
As part of the ongoing process of asthose set out on page 64 are brought to the Board for refreshing the Board, the appointment of at least one consideration.
additional Non-Executive Director to the Board was a key priority for the past year.
I am delighted to report that Jennifer Membership of the Board Allerton and Karen Guerra are joining the Board.
This Following the appointment of Jennifer Allerton and Karen isreported upon further in the report of the Nomination Guerra effective 7 March 2017, our Board has nine members Committee on pages 75 and 76. as set out on pages 61 to 63.
Further details of our Directors, including biographies, All Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be areonpages 61 to 63. independent because they do not have any business or other relationship with the Group that could significantly affect the Division of responsibilities between the exercise of their judgement.
I was also considered Chairman and President and CEO independent on appointment as Chairman although am There is a formal, written division of responsibilities between nolonger counted as such under the Code following Joel, as President and Chief Executive Officer, and me, appointment.
All of the Non-Executive Directors provide asChairman, although the constructive relationship which balanced judgement and constructive challenge as well as a we share is key.
High-level aspects of the division of broad range of skills and experience to the Board as a whole.
responsibilities, along with the principal roles of other Directors, are set out on the diagram on page 65.
Thisprovides structure to the different Board roles.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 66 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Copies of the Companys results presentations are available Meetings of the Board and its Committees on the Companys website.
Care is taken to ensure that any The Board held six principal scheduled meetings during the price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders year, as well as other meetings on specific matters when atthe same time, in accordance with FCA requirements.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees at their meetings during the year Evaluation follow this report of the Board.
As planned, the Board completed its first full and Details of Directors attendance at these meetings are shown comprehensive  evaluation.
The aim was on page 60. to achieve maximum value from the process as part of the Boards commitment to ongoing improvement.
A summary Support to Directors ofthe process and results is shown on page 77.
On appointment, Directors receive a full induction on the Company and its operations, facilitated by the Company Annual General Meetings Secretary, and have training available to them on an ongoing The Company also uses the Annual General Meeting AGM basis.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Senior as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders and Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
Directors all shareholders are welcome to attend.
All Directors attend are also able to take independent professional advice in the AGM and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and relation to their duties as Directors of the Company, at the Nomination Committees are available to answer Companys expense, should they wish to do so.
Relations with shareholders Notice of the 2017 AGM is included with this Annual Report The Company is strongly committed to good investor toshareholders.
Separate resolutions on each substantially communications and seeks to build and maintain good separate matter will be proposed at the AGM.
Proxy votes are relationships with both its institutional and private investors.
collated by the Companys registrars and the results of the The Company values the views of shareholders and votes on each resolution proposed at the AGM will be made recognises their interests in the Groups strategy and available on the Companys website after the meeting.
On behalf of the Board, The President and CEO and the CFO, assisted by the Vice Dennis Jones President of Investor Relations, meet with major institutional Chairman shareholders of the Company on a regular basis and make themselves available for calls as appropriate.
They can be 6 March 2017 contacted through the Companys Vice President of Investor Relations.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Committee Chairmen also make themselves available for calls and meetings with shareholders.
They can be contacted MEETINGS WITH SHAREHOLDERS through the Company Secretary.
In line with the Code, the Board believes it is important for its Non-Executive Directors to meet periodically with substantial There has been regular dialogue with key shareholders during shareholders, in order to maintain an ongoing and the year and the Company utilises various channels of constructive dialogue on governance related matters.
communication appropriate for both institutional and private shareholders.
In 2016, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director offered and held a series of meetings with governance The Company also holds briefings with institutional fund representatives of the Companys significant shareholders.
managers, analysts and other investors, primarily following These meetings: the announcement of interim and final results and at various - updated them on recent developments in the Company: investor conferences, as well as at other times during the year - sought their views on Company performance: as may be appropriate.
- sought their feedback on the Companys interface with The views of shareholders are communicated to the Board them: and and its Committees with regular investor relations updates - provided a forum to discuss any other matters of interest.
and otherwise as appropriate at their meetings.
