Audit committee report The effectiveness of the audit process is underpinned by Non-audit services appropriate audit planning and risk identification at the The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for outset of the audit cycle.
The auditor provides a detailed services provided by the auditor in order to satisfy itself that audit plan identifying its assessment of the risks and other auditor independence is safeguarded.
The group has a policy key matters for review.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, which prohibits the auditor providing certain services which the primary risks identified were: revenue recognition, might impair their independence.
The committee monitors valuation of the mobile payments business, valuation compliance with the policy safeguarding the independence of Collect and management override of controls.
The of the external auditor.
The policy also prescribes that any committee reviews and challenges the work undertaken non-audit services to be performed by the auditor in any by the auditor to test managements assumptions on these one year excluding tax are to be provisionally capped at an matters.
An assessment of the effectiveness of the audit aggregate total equivalent to the level of the annual audit process in addressing these items is performed through fee.
Any proposal to use the auditor for non-audit services the reporting received from the auditor at the half-year and exceeding this will be subject to the prior approval of the year end.
The committee seeks feedback from management Audit Committee.
on the effectiveness of the audit process.
No significant In determining the most appropriate provider of non-audit issues were raised with respect to the audit process services, the committee will consider the knowledge and for the period and the quality of the audit process was expertise of the potential providers and the proposed costs.
Non-audit services will only be undertaken by the auditor The Audit Committee meets the external auditor without the where it is deemed to be the preferred provider and the executive directors being present and procedures are in place, provision of services poses no threat to its independence.
which allow access at any time of both external and internal In the current year, services continued to be provided by auditor to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Deloitte in respect of advice on the sale of the online committee reports the outcome of each meeting to the board.
payments business and mobile payments business that The committees assessment of the external auditors were approved by the Audit Committee in the year ended performance and independence was found to be satisfactory 31 March 2015. and this underpinned its recommendation to the board to Details of the remuneration paid to the auditor for the propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP statutory audit and non-audit services, which normally are as auditor.
limited to assurance and tax advice, are set out in note 5.
Deloitte were initially appointed as external auditors for the Risk management and internal control year ended 31 March 2001, and for the two periods prior to The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the this from the date of incorporation of the Company, the groups system of internal control, and for regularly reviewing auditors were Arthur Andersen.
These two periods are its effectiveness.
The board has carried out a robust required to be included in the determination of the duration assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including of auditor appointment.
The committee has considered the those that would threaten its business model, future final Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market performance, solvency or liquidity.
These risks are disclosed Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender on pages 16 to 19 together with how they are being Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order managed or mitigated.
Procedures have been designed to 2014 published by the Competition and Markets Authority meet the particular needs of the group and its risks, which came into effect on 1 January 2015 and confirms that safeguarding shareholders investments and the Companys the Company is in compliance with the order.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than has concluded that it would not be appropriate at this time eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives to put the external audit out to tender in view of the recent and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance changes to the composition of the Audit Committee, against material misstatement or loss.
including the appointment of a new Chairman of the committee.
The committee will continue to review its The key features of the groups internal control systems that position on the tender of the external audit annually.
Under ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting the terms of the transitional provisions applicable under include clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation EU Regulation, PayPoint will be required to appoint a new of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial auditor for the year ending 31 March 2025. planning and reporting, preparation of monthly management accounts, project governance and information security, Based on the committees assessment, the committee has annual certifications from business managing directors and provided the board with its recommendation to the finance directors and review of the disclosures within the shareholders on the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as annual report and accounts from functional leads to ensure external auditor for the year ending 31 March 2017.
There are that the disclosures made appropriately reflect the no contractual obligations restricting the committees choice developments within the group in the year and meet the of auditor.
A resolution for re-appointment of the auditor will requirement of being fair, balanced and understandable.
be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the notice for which can be found on pages 83 to 87.
34 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All procedures necessary to comply with the FRCs Internal Whistleblowing Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined In accordance with its Whistleblowing policy, the Company Code have been in place throughout the period under review is committed to ensuring malpractice such as criminal and up to the date of approval of the annual report and offences or activity, fraud, financial mismanagement or financial statements.
The directors have conducted a formal corruption, health & safety issues, breach of compliance review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal or legislation, bribery or corruption is prevented and, if it control during the year under review and up to the date of arises is immediately dealt with.
Employees who act under approval of the annual report and accounts.
No significant the Whistleblowing policy are protected and such failings or weaknesses were identified during the review.
employees cannot be subjected to victimisation or harassment in relation to anything regarding a disclosure.
The board supported by the Audit Committee and senior Employees are encouraged to raise their genuine concerns management is responsible for identifying, evaluating and regarding any malpractice within the Company without fear managing the principal risks faced by the group.
The of harassment or victimisation.
Any instances of employee operational management of the group, including disclosures concerning malpractice are reported to the identification and regular review of principal risks is Audit Committee.
There were no instances of malpractice delegated to the Executive Board and senior managers reported to the committee during the year.
who are appointed by the Chief Executive.
The principal risks are identified in the first instance by the Head of Anti-bribery and corruption Risk & Compliance through discussion with other senior The Company operates an anti-bribery and corruption managers in functions across the group.
These identified policy which was put in place in response to UK Bribery Act risks covering all parts of the groups business activities, 2010.
This policy sets out the responsibilities of employees including financial risks, are categorised and included on of the group in observing and maintaining the groups a corporate risk register, and are submitted to the Audit position on bribery and corruption, which is that PayPoint Committee for review, and subsequently approved by will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and the board.
corruption in all the jurisdictions in which it operates.
All employees are required to undertake a Bribery Corruption The Head of Risk and Compliance coordinates an ongoing Awareness training programme as part of their induction review by senior managers within the group, of each area of process upon joining the group.
Subsequent to their risk on the register, the aim of which is to: induction, employees who are deemed to be at risk by virtue of their roles, are required to attend a tailored anti-bribery review the impact of change on risk and corruption training course which is organised internally on a yearly basis.
determine whether each cause is still applicable or whether there are new causes: Internal audit The Audit Committee is responsible for approving a determine the probability of each risk crystallising: rigorous internal audit programme covering all the groups estimate the financial impact to the business: key business areas.
The current programme was approved in March 2014 and each year the programme is reviewed identify controls for risk mitigation and analyse their to ensure that account is taken, where necessary, of any impact on risk: and change.
During the period, Grant Thornton UK LLP provided seek appropriate insurance cover for the residual risk.
internal audit services to the Company as directed by the Audit Committee, in accordance with the approved internal audit plan.
They executed a programme of testing designed In order to ensure that this process is managed effectively, to assess and report on the adequacy, reliability and responsibility for each key risk area is assigned to a member effectiveness of the design and operation of the relevant of senior management, who must confirm in writing that the accounting, financial and business control systems potential threats in each area have been properly identified implemented by management and report the results to and recorded and the appropriate action taken to mitigate the Audit Committee.
The detail associated with each area of risk together with any agreed action is submitted The Audit Committee report was approved by the board to the Audit Committee for consideration and approval at on 26 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: each Audit Committee meeting throughout the year.
Giles Kerr This process has been fully embedded into the operations Chairman Audit Committee of the business.
The Audit Committee receives regular 26 May 2016 updates on the on-going risk management, control systems and processes which are discussed at their meetings.
