60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors N R Sidney Taurel Chairman John Fallon Chief executive Coram Williams Chief financial o cer aged 68, appointed 1 January 2016 aged 54, appointed 3 October 2012 aged 43, appointed 1 August 2015 Sidney has over 40 years of experience in John became Pearsons chief executive on Coram joined Pearson in 2003 and has held business and finance, and is currently a board 1 January 2013.
Since 2008 he had been a number of senior positions including finance director and chairman of the compensation responsible for the companys education and operations director for Pearsons English committee at IBM Corporation.
Sidney is an businesses outside North America, and Language Teaching business in Europe, Middle advisory board member at pharmaceutical a member of the Pearson management East & Africa, interim president of Pearson rms Takeda Pharmaceutical and Almirall.
He joined Pearson in 1997 as Education Italia and head of financial planning He was chief executive o cer of global director of communications and was appointed and analysis for Pearson.
In 2008, Coram became pharmaceutical rm Eli Lilly and Company president of Pearson Inc. in 2000.
In 2003, CFO of The Penguin Group and was latterly from 1998 until 2008, chairman of the he was appointed CEO of Pearsons educational appointed CFO of Penguin Random House in business from 1999 until 2008, and has been publishing businesses for Europe, Middle East 2013.
Coram trained at Arthur Andersen, and chairman emeritus since 2009.
Prior to joining Pearson, John was subsequently worked in both the auditing and a director at McGraw Hill Financial, Inc. a role director of corporate a airs at Powergen plc, consulting practices of the rm.
He is a nonwhich he held from 1996 until April 2016. and was also a member of the companys executive director of the Guardian Media Group.
Sidney has received three US presidential executive committee.
Earlier in his career, appointments to: the Homeland Security John held senior public policy and Advisory Council, the Presidents Export communications roles in UK local government.
Council and the Advisory Committee for He is an advisory board member of the Global Trade Policy and Negotiations, and is an Business Coalition for Education and a member o cer of the French Legion of Honour.
of the Council of the University of Hull.
Key to committees Non-executive directors A N RR RR A R Audit Remuneration N Nomination & Committee chair governance Linda Lorimer Non-executive director Harish Manwani Non-executive director RR aged 64, appointed 1 July 2013 aged 63, appointed 1 October 2013 Reputation & Linda spent almost 40 years serving higher Harish has an extensive background in emerging responsibility education.
She retired from Yale in spring markets and senior experience in a successful 2016 after 34 years at the university where she global organisation.
He was previously chief served in an array of senior positions including operating o cer of consumer products company vice president for Global & Strategic Initiatives.
Unilever, having joined the company in 1976 as She oversaw the development of Yales a marketing management trainee in India, and burgeoning online education division and the held senior management roles around the world, expansion of Yale international programmes including North America, Latin America, Europe, and centres.
During her tenure, she was Africa and Asia.
He is non-executive chairman responsible for many administrative services, of Hindustan Unilever Limited in India, and ranging from Yales public communications serves on the boards of Whirlpool Corporation, and alumni relations to sustainability, human Qualcomm Inc. and Nielsen Holdings.
He is also resources and the university press.
Previously, on the board of the Indian School of Business Linda was president of Randolph-Macon and the Economic Development Board EDB Womans College and chair of the board of of Singapore, and is global executive advisor the Association of American Colleges and at Blackstone Private Equity.
She also served on the boards of several public companies, including as presiding director of the McGraw-Hill companies.
She is a member of the Trilateral Commission and the Council on Foreign Relations.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 61 Non-executive directors A A N N R N R RR Elizabeth Corley, CBE Non-executive director Vivienne Cox, CBE Senior independent director Josh Lewis Non-executive director aged 60, appointed 1 May 2014 aged 57, appointed 1 January 2012 aged 54, appointed 1 March 2011 Elizabeth is non-executive vice chair of Allianz Vivienne has wide experience in energy, natural Joshs experience spans finance, education and Global Investors, where she was chief executive resources and business innovation.
She worked the development of digital enterprises.
He is o cer, initially for Europe then globally, from for BP plc for 28 years in global roles including the founder of Salmon River Capital LLC, a New 2005 to 2016.
She was previously at Merrill Lynch executive vice president and chief executive of York-based private equity venture capital rm Investment Managers and Coopers & Lybrand.
BPs gas, power and renewables business and focused on technology-enabled businesses in Elizabeth is a director of the FICC Markets its alternative energy unit.
She is non-executive education, financial services and other sectors.
Standards Board, a member of the ESMA director of Stena International and chairman of Over a 25-year career in active, principal stakeholder group and the advisory council of the supervisory board of Vallourec, a leader in investing, he has been involved in a broad TheCityUK.
She is a non-executive director of the seamless steel pipe markets.
She is also range of successful companies, including BAE Systems plc and the Financial Reporting non-executive director at pharmaceutical several pioneering enterprises in the education Council.
In addition, she is a member of FEAMs company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
In addition, he has long been active management committee, the CFA Institute Board independent director at the UK Department in the non-pro t education sector, with of Governors, the Committee of 200 and a for International Development.
associations including New Leaders, New trustee of the British Museum.
She is a fellow of Classrooms, and the Bill & Melinda Gates the CFA UK Society and the Royal Society of Arts Foundation.
He is also a non-executive director and is also a crime ction author.
of several enterprises in the n-tech data, education and other sectors.
Non-executive directors A A RR Pearson board members N R bring a wide range of experience, skills and Tim Score Non-executive director Lincoln Wallen Non-executive director backgrounds which aged 56, appointed 1 January 2015 aged 56, appointed 1 January 2016 complement our strategy.
Tim has extensive experience of the technology Lincoln is CEO of DWA Nova, a software-as-asector in both developed and emerging markets, service company born out of DreamWorks Executive experience of chairman and having served as chief financial o cer of ARM Animation Studios in Los Angeles.
He has worked non-executive directors Holdings plc, the worlds leading semiconductor at DreamWorks Animation for nine years in a Digital technology IP company, a position he held for 13 years.
variety of roles including chief technology o cer experience He is an experienced non-executive director and head of animation technology.
He was and currently sits on the boards of The British formerly CTO at Electronic Arts Mobile where he Land Company plc and HM Treasury.
He served was instrumental in shaping EAs approach to the 50% on the board of National Express Group plc mobile business.
Lincolns early career involved from 2005 to 2014, including time as interim 20 years of professional IT and mathematics Education learning chairman and six years as the senior research, including a reader in Computer Science experience independent director.
Earlier in his career at Oxford.
Lincoln graduated from Durham Tim held senior finance roles with Rebus University in 1981 with a BSc in Mathematics 38% Group, William Baird, BTR plc and others.
and Physics, before completing his PhD in Arti cial Intelligence at the University of North American Edinburgh.
Lincoln is a non-executive director markets experience of the Smith Institute, an advisory board member of Hewlett Packard Enterprise and 75% a member of the STEM Advisory Committee of the National Academy Foundation.
Emerging markets experience 75% 62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Board governance and activities impact Mr Manwanis ability to commit to the Pearson board, and he Board of directors has demonstrated a full attendance record at Pearson since his Composition of the board The board consists of the chairman, appointment to the board.
However, Mr Manwani has discussed Sidney Taurel, two executive directors: the chief executive, with our chairman his intent to step down from one of these John Fallon, and chief financial o cer, Coram Williams, and appointments during the next twelve months, and if for any reason seven independent non-executive directors.
that should not happen, then he would not stand for re-election to the Pearson board at our 2018 AGM.
Chairman and chief executive There is a fide ned split of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive.
Independence of directors All of the non-executive directors The roles and responsibilities of the chairman and chief executive who served during 2016 were considered by the board to be are clearly fide ned, set out in writing and reviewed and agreed independent for the purposes of the Code.
The board reviews by the board on an annual basis.
the independence of each of the non-executive directors annually.
This includes reviewing their external appointments and any Chairmans signi cant commitments In April 2016, the chairman potential con icts of interest as well as assessing their individual stepped down from his position as a non-executive director of circumstances in order to ensure that there are no relationships McGraw Hill Financial, Inc.
There were no other changes to the or matters likely to a ect their character or judgement.
In addition chairmans signi cant commitments during 2016.
On 1 January to this review, each of the non-executive directors is asked annually 2017, Mr Taurel also stepped down from his role as a senior to complete an independence questionnaire to satisfy requirements adviser at the global investment bank, Moelis & Co. arising from Pearsons US listing.
Independence of chairman In accordance with the Code, Con icts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006 the Act, Sidney Taurel was considered to be independent upon his directors have a statutory duty to avoid con icts of interest with appointment as chairman on 1 January 2016. the company.
The companys Articles of Association Articles allow Non-executive directors Harish Manwani currently serves on five the directors to authorise con icts of interest.
The company has listed company boards, including Pearson, and is chairman of established a procedure to identify actual and potential con icts Hindustan Unilever Ltd. We do not believe these appointments of interest, including all directorships or other appointments to, Roles and composition of the board Gender split Nationality Role Name Responsibility of board of directors Chairman Sidney Taurel The chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board and ensuring its e ectiveness.
He ensures the board upholds and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance, setting the boards agenda and encouraging open, constructive debate of all agenda items for e ective decision-making.
He also ensures that shareholders views are communicated to the board.
Chief John Fallon The chief executive is responsible for the operational management executive of the business and for the development and implementation of Men 7 UK 6 the companys strategy as agreed by the board and management.
Women 3 US 2 He is responsible for developing operational proposals and policies Asia 1 for approval by the board, and promotes Pearsons culture Europe 1 excl UK and standards.
Senior Vivienne Cox The senior independent directors role includes meeting regularly independent with the chairman and chief executive to discuss speci c issues, as Geographic Length of director well as being available to shareholders generally should they have locations of tenure of concerns that have not been addressed through the normal directors non-executive channels.
She also leads the evaluation of the chairman on behalf directors of the other directors.
Committee Tim Score The committee chairmen are responsible for leading the board chairmen Elizabeth Corley committees and ensuring their e ectiveness.
They set the Vivienne Cox committees agendas, in consultation with the companys Linda Lorimer management, and report to the board on committee proceedings.
Company Stephen Jones The company secretary acts as secretary to the board and its secretary committees, ensuring compliance with board procedures and advising on governance matters.
He is responsible, under the UK 5 Under 3 years 4 direction of the chairman, for ensuring the board receives accurate, US 4 3 to 6 years 3 timely and clear information.
The company secretary supports the Asia 1 chairman in delivery of the corporate governance agenda and organises director inductions and ongoing training.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 63 Governance at Pearson Board of directors Board committees Audit Nomination & governance Remuneration Reputation & responsibility committee committee committee committee Pearson executive management PEM Chief executive o cer General counsel and chief legal o cer Chief financial o cer President, core markets Chief technology and operations o cer President, growth markets Chief corporate a airs and global marketing o cer President, North America Chief human resources o cer President, assessments Chief education adviser until March 2017 President, global product Operating councils Leadership teams Operating councils operate primarily at sub-executive Each member of the Pearson executive is supported by level, and have either executive representation or clear a leadership team in the planning and delivery of that reporting lines into the Pearson executive.
The councils executives main duties.
A leadership team typically are established to provide leadership and set Pearsons consists of senior managers from the particular business agenda and organisational policy in cross-functional area, and the strategic business partners who support areas, and are accordingly made up of interested them in day-to-day matters including representatives parties from across the business.
from enabling functions such as finance, HR and legal.
Examples include: Examples include: Compliance council Core leadership team Responsible business leadership council Global corporate a airs and global marketing leadership team Operational responsibility leaders Global operations across Pearson FLOW OF INFORMATION 64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Board governance and activities or relationships with, companies which are not part of the Pearson Determining the companys strategy in consultation with Group and which could give rise to actual or potential con icts of management, reviewing performance against it, and overseeing interest.
Once noti ed to the chairman or company secretary, such management execution thereof potential con icts are considered for authorisation by the board Major changes to the companys corporate, capital, management at its next scheduled meeting.
The relevant director cannot vote on and control structures an authorisation resolution, or be counted in the quorum, in relation to the resolution relating to his her con ict or potential con ict.
Approval of all transactions or financial commitments in excess The board reviews any authorisations granted on an annual basis.
of the authority limits delegated to the chief executive and other executive management.
Board meetings The board receives timely, regular and necessary financial, The board met seven times in 2016, with discussions and debates management and other information to ful l its duties.
focused on the key strategic issues facing the company.
Major items Comprehensive board papers are circulated to the board and covered by the board in 2016 are shown in the table below.
committee members at least one week in advance of each meeting and the board receives regular reports from the chief executive.
In addition to the formal meetings, the board meets as necessary In addition to meeting papers, a library of current and historic to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature.
corporate information is made available to directors electronically to support the boards decision-making process.
Directors can The role and business of the board obtain independent professional advice, at the companys expense, The board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring the in the performance of their duties as directors.
All directors have companys long-term strategy, performance and values.
We believe access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
that it adds a valuable and diverse set of external perspectives and Standing committee that robust, open debate about signi cant business issues brings an additional discipline to major decisions.
A standing committee of the board is established to approve certain operational and ordinary course of business items such A schedule of formal matters reserved for the boards as banking matters, guarantees, intra-group transactions and to decision and approval is available on our website, make routine approvals relating to employee share plans.
com governance The committee has written terms of reference, reviewed The key responsibilities of the board include: and approved each year, which clearly set out its authority Overall leadership of the company and setting the companys values and duties.
These can be found on the company website at and standards www.
Board meeting focus during 2016 Area of responsibility Activity Annual review of authorised con icts of interest Board evaluation findings Governance Review of division of responsibilities between Risk appetite & risk chairman and chief executive Enterprise risk management review Brexit implications and next steps Read more on p44-46 South African Black Economic Empowerment overview Approval of schedule of authority limits Penguin Random House investment update Approval of committee terms of reference Shareholder activism and defence plan Treasury policy approval Operating and strategic plan updates Strategy meeting in Minnesota focusing on US higher Strategy education courseware and the assessments business Restructuring plan updates Read more on p65 Strategic planning focusing on markets and portfolio, Interactive product demonstrations including dedicated meeting in New Jersey 2015 preliminary results and annual report and accounts 2016 operating plan update Performance Monthly dashboard and milestone reports Final and interim dividend proposals Interim results and trading updates Draft 2017 operating plan and three-year nancials Balance sheet strategy Chief executives goals Dinner with senior local management at strategy meetings Leadership & Facilitated talent breakfasts at strategy meetings Talent and succession planning Read more on p69 people Focus on forthcoming AGM Major shareholders and share register analysis Shareholders Review of shareholder issues and voting Review of investor relations strategy and share & engagement price performance Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 65 Culture and values Governance in action: Minnesota visit Pearsons core values to be brave, imaginative, decent and accountable go to the heart of our mission to improve learning outcomes, and the board and employees are committed to demonstrating these characteristics throughout their work and deliberations.
The board monitors the culture of the company and levels of employee engagement and advocacy with the assistance of its reputation and responsibility committee and through regular updates from the chief human resources o cer.
It aims to foster a culture of collaboration, diversity and inclusion at all levels, including by engaging with employees from across Pearson at In June 2016, the board visited Bloomington, various events throughout the year.
Minnesota, where they were hosted by the president of Pearsons assessments business, Bob Whelan.
Board attendance Bloomington is the headquarters of Pearsons global Directors are encouraged to attend all board and committee assessments business which generated 22 % of Pearsons meetings but in certain circumstances, such as due to pre-existing sales in 2016, with approximately 800 employees based there.
business or personal commitments, directors may be unable to attend.
In these circumstances, directors receive relevant papers Overview of assessments Senior managers led a deep dive and, where possible, will communicate any comments and into each of the three distinct areas within the assessments observations in advance of the meeting for raising as appropriate business: US school assessment, global clinical assessment, during the meeting.
They are updated on any developments after and professional certi cation.
While these are distinct the meeting by the chairman of the board or committee, as businesses, the board heard about the synergies to be drawn appropriate.
Individuals attendance at board and committee from combining these under the leadership of Mr Whelan, meetings is considered, as necessary, as part of the formal such as an opportunity to share capabilities and platforms.
annual review of their performance.
In a focused session led by the chief corporate a airs and global marketing o cer, the board discussed the reputational The following table sets out the attendance of the companys challenges and strategies relating to the testing business.
directors at scheduled board meetings during 2016: US higher education courseware Tim Bozik, Don Kilburn and Board meetings attended Albert Hitchcock presented to the board on the need to focus Chairman primarily on our portfolio, product and the platform strategy Sidney Taurel 7 7 that we will deploy to maximise digital adoption of our US higher education courseware over the next three years.
Executive directors John Fallon 7 7 A client perspective The board discussed with the President and CEO of the Graduate Management Admission Council the Coram Williams 7 7 need to gain a customers perspective on the shifting global Non-executive directors landscape of business education, primarily in postgraduate Elizabeth Corley 7 7 studies, and associated opportunities and challenges.
Vivienne Cox 7 7 Learning in action The board toured a Pearson VUE Josh Lewis 7 7 professional testing centre, following which they took a computer-based test to better understand the customer Linda Lorimer 7 7 experience.
There was also an opportunity for the board Harish Manwani 7 7 and executive to join local employees to see at first hand Tim Score 7 7 the work carried out by two partner organisations, Americas Lincoln Wallen 7 7 Promise Alliance and the Minnesota Literacy Council.
The Pearson community The board met for breakfast Succession planning with the companys locally based emerging talent.
The board The board considers oversight of succession planning not only also met with local leaders with the aim of advancing at board and executive management level but for all key positions shared educational goals, in particular to prepare a throughout the business as one of its prime responsibilities, diverse population of students for educational and assisted by the nomination & governance committee.
The company has formal contingency plans in place for temporary absence of the chief executive for health or other reasons.
The matter of chief executive succession is a standing item for discussion and review by the chairman and chief executive annually.
Succession planning for the board and chair is also considered annually, and as part of the recent restructuring programme, there has been a review of key positions at executive management level.
Read more about Talent and succession planning on p69 66 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Board governance and activities The board meets with local sta and senior management every time Feedback and key themes board meetings are held away from the head o ce, such as during The evaluation found that the board has a culture of open and the boards 2016 visits to Bloomington, Minnesota and Hoboken, transparent discussion, with all directors being able to challenge New Jersey.
In addition, a number of London-based employees and question rigorously.
The board size and composition was felt to attended a reception with the board as part of its December be appropriate for the business, and consideration was given to meeting schedule.
This allows the non-executive directors to share recruitment of future board members, including the skills, their experience and expertise with employees as well as allowing background and experience we might look for in any future them to better understand their abilities and motivations, helping non-executive directors, and succession planning for committee them to assess the companys prospects and plans for succession.
Board members were in agreement that they should continue to focus on US higher education courseware at every Board evaluation meeting, and that additional measures will be built into the monthly dashboard to monitor this business.
The directors also expressed a The board evaluation for 2016 was an internal assessment of board desire to make use of external expertise in digital technologies and performance led by Vivienne Cox, senior independent director.
agreed to explore this further.
The nomination & governance In terms of process, a questionnaire was distributed as an advance committee will consider Ms Coxs findings and recommendations in indication of the evaluations proposed areas of focus, following greater detail in early 2017, as they commence planning for the 2017 which Ms Cox held an open discussion with each director on an evaluation which will be conducted on an external basis.
Board members views were sought on a range of areas including boardroom dynamics, strategy, risk, quality of We also took a number of actions in 2016 in response to feedback information, market knowledge and board composition.
arising from the directors during the 2015 board evaluation process.
You can read more about these actions in the table below.
Progress on findings of 2015 evaluation Finding Response Action taken Overall, the style and substance of board Working with senior management, the chairman introduced a monthly dashboard, presenting papers were well liked by the board, performance against a range of financial and strategic KPIs, in a simple, consistent and readable style.
although executive summaries are The company secretarial and strategic development teams have reviewed and amended the format welcome where information is of board papers to bring greater consistency to the style and structure of the papers, including particularly detailed.
recommending the inclusion of a standard set of strategic information.
This will be kept under review to ensure the papers continue to provide the appropriate level of detail in an accessible format.
Reviewing committee composition might The chairman reviewed committee composition with the non-executives and the company secretary allow meetings to run concurrently, during the year.
Revised committee compositions were introduced with e ect from 1 January 2017 allowing the time available to be more to allow concurrent meetings and more e cient use of available time.
Board dinners are most useful when Whenever possible we hold a dinner for all directors prior to each board meeting.
At its February 2016 there is a theme, a topic for discussion dinner, the board reviewed its 2015 evaluation exercise and the chief executive discussed changes to or external guests attending.
In June, the board met with community stakeholders and education thought leaders at its Minnesota strategy meeting, and in October the board discussed the upcoming US presidential election with political analysts in New Jersey.
Scheduling and frequency of board We set our main meeting dates two years in advance in consultation with the board but there will meetings generally considered to be inevitably be occasions where a meeting needs to be called at relatively short notice.
On such appropriate, and there is a preference occasions we facilitate directors joining by telephone or video conference, and try to accommodate to set dates well in advance due to the time di erences in doing so.
The board nds it helpful to receive We have arranged for the regular internal corporate a airs brie ng to be shared with non-executives, corporate a airs updates and and the investor relations team provides a cross-section of analyst reports when appropriate to enable broker reports.
the board to keep abreast of market sentiment.
Informal product demonstrations are We arranged hands-on product demonstrations at the February, June and October board meetings.
Led by very useful in helping non-executive executive colleagues and product leaders, the board learned about our World Class Quali cations and next directors to better understand the generation BTECs, six key products in higher education, and the Pearson VUE assessment methodology.
The demonstrations were well received, and we will continue to include similar sessions at future board meetings when the opportunity arises.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 67 Pearsons advisers, monitor legal and governance developments Individual evaluation and update the board on such matters as agreed with the chairman.
In addition to the evaluation of the board as a whole, executives In 2016, the directors and other senior managers were briefed on are evaluated each year on their performance against personal the e ect of the new EU Market Abuse Regulation on the company, objectives under the companys annual incentive plan.
The chairman and changes to their personal obligations arising from that meets with each non-executive director individually on a regular legislation.
Directors can also make use of external courses.
basis and, in assessing the contribution of each, has con rmed that each director continues to make a signi cant contribution to the Directors indemnities business and deliberations of the board.
The non-executive A qualifying third-party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the directors, led by the senior independent director, also conduct Articles and sections 232 and 234 of the Act, has been granted by an annual review of the chairmans performance.
the company to each of its directors.
Under the provisions of the QTPI, the company undertakes to indemnify each director against Committee evaluation liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties All committees undertake an annual evaluation process to review and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided that they are their performance and e ectiveness.
The process involves reimbursed to the company if the director is found guilty, the court distribution of questionnaires to committee members, as well as key refuses to grant the relief sought or, in an action brought by the stakeholders in each committee, seeking views on matters including company, judgment is given against the director.
The indemnity committee roles and responsibilities, quality and timeliness of has been in force for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 meeting materials, opportunity for discussion and debate, dialogue and is currently in force.
with management and access to independent advice.
Responses The company has purchased and maintains directors and o cers are then evaluated and presented to the respective committee at a insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims scheduled meeting, with key themes being drawn out for discussion.
in connection with any act or omission by such directors and o cers Read more in the committee reports on the pages that follow.
in the execution of their duties.
Directors training and induction Board committees Directors receive a signi cant bespoke induction programme and The board has established four formal committees: audit, a range of information about Pearson when they join the board.
nomination & governance, remuneration, and reputation & This includes background information on Pearson and details responsibility.
The chairmen and members of these committees of board procedures, directors responsibilities and various are appointed by the board on the recommendation where governance-related issues, including procedures for dealing in appropriate of the nomination & governance committee and Pearson shares and their legal obligations as directors.
The in consultation with each relevant committee chairman.
In addition induction also typically includes a series of meetings with members to these formal board committees, the standing committee also of the board, external legal advisers and brokers, the Pearson operates with board-level input.
executive and senior management, presentations regarding the business from senior executives and a brie ng on Pearsons Learn more about Pearsons governance structure on p63 investor relations programme.
More committee information: The induction programme for Lincoln Wallen, our most recently appointed non-executive director, continued into 2016, tailored Audit committee p70 to his speci c areas of focus, and included time with the chief Nomination & governance committee p68 technology and operations o cer and president of our North Remuneration committee p82 American business, as well as sessions relevant to the board committees he has joined.
In addition to matters highlighted above, Reputation & responsibility committee p78 the induction for our chairman, Sidney Taurel, included attending Standing committee p64 our North American higher education sales conference, the senior leaders accelerated growth meeting in Texas, a visit to our Brazilian The committees focus on their own areas of expertise, enabling businesses, and meetings with substantial shareholders throughout the board meetings to focus on governance and risk, strategy, the year.
performance, and leadership and people, thereby making the best use of the boards time together as a whole.
The committee All directors receive training in the form of presentations about the chairmen report to the full board at each meeting immediately companys operations, through board meetings held at operational following their sessions, ensuring a good communication ow locations and by encouraging the directors to visit local facilities and while retaining the ability to escalate items to the full boards agenda management as and when their schedule allows, including if they if appropriate.
are travelling to a country or region on non-Pearson business.
The company secretary and general counsel, in conjunction with 68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Nomination & governance committee report Role and business of the committee Committee chairman Vivienne Cox The committee monitors the composition and balance of the board Members Elizabeth Corley, and of its committees, identifying and recommending to the board Vivienne Cox, Josh Lewis, the appointment of new directors and or committee members.
Harish Manwani, The committee also oversees talent and succession plans for Tim Score and Sidney Taurel senior roles.
Board search Pearson uses a number of leading rms in its board search activities and ensures that we retain good relationships with these rms.
However, no appointment or board search activity was undertaken As Pearson focuses on the changing during 2016. needs of the worlds education markets, Changes to committee and 2016 activity the committees role is to ensure the During 2016, in response to feedback from the chairman and other right leadership is in place to steer members of the board, a comprehensive review was carried out to look at the work done by each committee.
The intention was to the company forward.
ensure the board worked e ectively and used its time together well.
As a result, changes were made to the membership of each Committee responsibilities include: committee and the role of the nomination committee was expanded to include corporate governance matters, including board diversity, Identifying and nominating Appointments oversight of the annual board evaluation processes, the companys candidates for board vacancies.
corporate governance policies and practices, compliance with the Code, and oversight of director induction and training.
In respect Ensuring that the board and its committees Balance of its governance remit, the committee will primarily take on the have the appropriate balance of skills, role of reviewing current practices on behalf of the board, and experience, independence, diversity and recommending actions or changes for the boards formal approval.
As senior independent director, I have taken on the chairmanship Reviewing the companys leadership Succession of the committee, with the other members being independent needs with a view to ensuring the continued non-executive directors, including the chairmen of the audit and ability of the organisation to compete in remuneration committees, and the chairman of the board.
executive and other senior management attend committee Review and oversight of Pearsons corporate meetings by invitation.
Governance governance framework, board evaluation and During the year, I was pleased to be invited by Kate James, training plans, and board diversity policy.
Pearsons chief corporate a airs and global marketing o cer and executive sponsor of our Women in Leadership and Learning Terms of reference network WILL to give a virtual talk to employees on career The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out and professional development.
These are reviewed annually and can be found on the company website www.
com governance Diversity Attendance The board embraces the Codes underlying principles with regard to Attendance by directors at nomination committee meetings board balance and diversity, including gender diversity.
The throughout 2016: committee ensures that the directors of Pearson demonstrate a Meetings attended broad balance of skills, experience and nationalities, to support Pearsons strategic development and re ect the global nature of Sidney Taurel 2 2 our business.
Appointments are made on merit and relevant Elizabeth Corley 2 2 experience, while taking into account the broadest fide nition Vivienne Cox 2 2 of diversity.
Josh Lewis 2 2 1 Linda Lorimer 2 2 Harish Manwani 2 2 Tim Score 2 2 1 Lincoln Wallen 2 2 Note 1: Linda Lorimer and Lincoln Wallen stepped down from the nomination committee on 31 December 2016.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Leadership & e ectiveness 69 We are pleased with the gender diversity of the Pearson board, having exceeded Lord Davies 2015 target with 30% female Talent and succession planning representation on the board: however, we note the five recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review aimed at At a joint session with the board in April 2016, led by the continuing to improve the representation of women in the chief human resources o cer, the committee reviewed the leadership of large listed companies, and we are committed to work talent and leadership implications of the growth and towards these.
The recommendations include voluntary targets of simpli cation plan, succession planning for chief executive at least 33% female representation on the board, executive and other Pearson executive roles, development of senior committee and in their direct reports, increased transparency by leadership talent, and high potential talent beyond the companies in this regard, and proactive involvement of nomination senior leadership group.
committees in overseeing progress in these areas.
The committee was reminded of Pearsons talent philosophy The chief executive and the chief financial o cer are both members which relates to the achievement of measurable goals, of the board.
Among the other ten members of the executive team transparency and the Pearson behaviours brave, there are two females 20%, although for most of 2016 the imaginative, decent and accountable.
The committee agreed percentage was 22% two members out of nine.
The senior the characteristics to be demonstrated by all leaders, leadership team, the two levels of managers reporting to the chief re ecting business priorities.
This gives us con dence that we have a strong pipeline of women coming through, and the committee The committee noted the strengthening of the executive team will monitor their development, and the development of all key and a number of expanded roles over the past year as a result talent, with care.
of the continuing Group-wide transformation.
They reviewed in detail each member of the executive including identifying We also welcome the Parker Reviews recent report into ethnic immediate interim successors for each executive role and diversity on UK boards, including the voluntary target of at least discussing the longer term succession pipeline.
Diversity in one director of colour by 2021, and will consider the reports senior roles was discussed and the directors were keen to recommendations carefully when reviewing our board diversity policy understand what more could be done to measure diversity and throughout our senior management succession planning process.
and to think about it in its broadest sense and its alignment with the business strategy.
Learn more about diversity and inclusion throughout Pearson on p24 The committee concluded that Pearson has a strong talent bench, noting certain areas for improvement in terms of Committee aims for 2017 diversity and the succession pipeline, and o ered their With the committees expanded remit, we will have a full agenda assistance as mentors to help in the development of key for 2017, with a particular focus on planning for our three-yearly talent, as and when considered appropriate.
external board evaluation, reviewing the boards diversity policy and objectives, and ongoing oversight of governance and succession planning activity.
Vivienne Cox Chairman of nomination & governance committee Nomination committee meeting focus during 2016 Area of responsibility Activity Appointment of Linda Lorimer as chairman of reputation Appointment of Vivienne Cox as chairman of nomination Appointments & responsibility committee & governance committee Reviewing composition and remit of board committees Balance Succession planning for executive director Review of senior management and high potential Succession and executive management roles talent pipeline
