GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD COMMITTEES REPORTS CONTINUED THE NOMINATION SIR JOHN PARKER, NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee meets in accordance with an annual DIVERSITY POLICY calendar to consider succession planning, equality and diversity The Committee is required by the Board to review and monitor reports and periodically as necessary to manage the Board compliance with the Boards diversity policy and report on the appointment process and recommend to the Board suitable targets, achievement against those targets and overall compliance candidates for Board appointments in the Group.
in the annual report each year.
The Boards diversity policy confirms that the Board is It is the practice of the Committee, led by the Chairman, to appoint an external search consultancy to assist in Board committed to: appointments to ensure that an extensive and robust search can the search for Board candidates being conducted, and be made for suitable candidates.
appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and During the year the Committee met to consider: with due regard for the benefits of gender and ethnic diversity on the Board.
the Group Chief Executive Officer, the South West Water satisfying itself that plans are in place for orderly succession Managing Director and the Group General Counsel & of appointments to the Board and to senior management Company Secretary appointments to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience the Groups diversity and equality policies and practice.
within the Group and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
In addition, within the spirit of Following the year end the Committee also considered its Principle B.
2 of the UK Code, the Board endeavours to performance evaluation for the year and concluded that for the achieve and maintain: forthcoming year there would be a sharper focus on succession a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board planning, having regard to the new corporate structure recently introduced.
a minimum of 25% female representation on the Groups senior management team.
External search consultants were not engaged to assist with the recruitment of the Group Chief Executive Officer or the South The Committee is pleased to report that as at 31 March 2016 West Water Managing Director due to exceptionally able internal and, as disclosed with the Directors biographies on page 60, the candidates being available for consideration by the Committee.
Group had exceeded 25% female representation at Board level.
While circumstances on occasion will result in changes in Board The appointment of the Group General Counsel & Company composition, the Committee and the Board remain committed to Secretary was undertaken with the assistance of an external maintaining at least the 25% level.
In respect of the Groups senior management team, progress is Members Appointment date Attendance being made with 21.9% being female compared to the reported 16.4% at 31 March 2015.
Action is being taken to improve Kenneth Harvey March 1997 2 2 Committee chairman diversity across the workforce which will assist in increasing until 31 July 2015 female representation at senior management level as described on page 50.
Martin Angle December 2008 4 4 Gerard Connell October 2003 2 2 The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and promote diversity across the Group with the aim of achieving Neil Cooper September 2014 4 4 a minimum of 25% female representation on the senior Gill Rider September 2012 4 4 management team by the end of 2017.
Sir John Parker April 2015 4 4 As well as its diversity policy, the Group has a number of Committee chairman policies in place embracing workplace matters, including from 1 August 2015 non-discrimination and equal opportunities policies which are Retired on 31 July 2015 reported on separately on page 48, together with information regarding the gender breakdown of the workforce on page 50.
In accordance with the revised governance structure detailed on page 62 with effect from 1 April 2016 the South West Water independent non-executive directors will also contribute to Committee discussions when matters within the Committees remit relevant to South West Water are to be considered.
74 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
