GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION THE BOARD AND ITS GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board and its new governance framework introduced in April 2016, which incorporates a plenary style of operation, is set out below.
The Board has a matters reserved schedule setting out its responsibilities, and each Committee has a detailed terms of reference setting out its responsibilities, accountabilities and reporting obligations to the Board.
Further details of the responsibilities of the Pennon Group Board Committees are set out in the report of each Committee on pages 66 to 76.
These, together with the risk management and internal control frameworks described on pages 51 and 65, form an effective and robust governance structure designed to manage and develop the Group in accordance with the Groups strategy to maintain and grow shareholder value.
THE BOARD Consisting of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Viridor Chief Executive and three independent Non-executive Directors.
In addition, three independent South West Water non-executive directors attend Board meetings and contribute to the Boards discussions.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Members: three independent Pennon Non-executive Directors.
Two independent South West Water non-executive directors attend Committee meetings and contribute to the Committee discussions GROUP EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT BOARD Members: three independent Pennon Non-executive Chaired by the Group Chief Executive Directors.
Two independent South West Water Officer and consisting of principal non-executive directors attend Committee meetings and executives of the Group contribute to the Committee discussions NOMINATION COMMITTEE Members: the Chairman and three independent Pennon Non-executive Directors with three independent South West Water non-executive directors attending when South West Water matters are considered SOUTH WEST WATER VIRIDOR EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT BOARD BOARD Members: two independent Pennon Chaired by the South West Chaired by the Viridor Chief Non-executive Directors and two Executive Water Managing Director and Executive and consisting of Directors.
Two independent South West Water non-executive directors attend Committee consisting of principal executives principal executives of Viridor meetings and contribute to Committee discussions of South West Water The South West Water board continues to operate as a separate independent board for regulatory and statutory purposes and consists of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Managing Director and the Finance Director of South West Water, and six independent non-executive directors.
62 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE At the end of the year the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
All of the Non-executive Directors were considered by the Board to be independent throughout the year.
None of the relationships or circumstances set out in provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code applied to the Directors listed on the next page other than in respect of Gerard Connell who retired on 31 July 2015.
While Gerard had served on the Board for more than nine years since his first election, he was determined by the Board to be independent, and the Board was satisfied that he demonstrated independence of character and judgement in the performance of his role on the Board up to the date of his retirement.
Sir John Parker, who was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015 as Deputy Chairman, succeeded Ken Harvey as Chairman following the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Sir John met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
1.1 of the UK Code on his appointment as Chairman and there have been no significant changes to his external commitments since his appointment.
Following the acquisition of Bournemouth Water in April 2015, Chris Loughlin and Gerard Connell were appointed as non-executive directors on the Bournemouth Water board.
That board, following the merger of South West Water and Bournemouth Water on 31 March 2016, ceased to operate and was disbanded.
All Directors are subject to re-election each year in accordance with provision B.
DIRECTORS SKILLS AND ROLES All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to have the appropriate skills, experience in their respective disciplines and personality to bring independent and objective judgement to the Boards deliberations.
Their biographies and the experience chart on pages 60 and 61 demonstrate collectively a broad range of business, financial and other relevant experience.
Neil Cooper is chairman of the Audit Committee and in accordance with the UK Code and FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1.
1 he has recent and relevant financial experience as set out in his biography on page 61.
Martin Angle is also a member of the Audit Committee and he has relevant financial experience as set out in his biography on page 61.
There is a clear separation of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive divided between managing the Board and the business, while they of course maintain a close working relationship.
All the Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs but they do have specific roles, which include those set out below: Position Director Role Chairman Sir John Parker Leading the Board and setting its agenda Promoting the highest standards of integrity and probity and ensuring good and effective governance Managing Board composition, performance and succession planning Providing advice, support and guidance to the Group Chief Executive Representing the Group and being available to shareholders Discussing separately with the Non-executive Directors performance and strategic issues Group Chris Loughlin Managing the Group and providing executive leadership Chief Executive Developing and proposing Group strategy Officer Leading the operation of the Group in accordance with the decisions of the Board Co-ordinating with the Chairman on important and strategic issues of the Group and providing input to the Boards agenda Contributing to succession planning and implementing the organisational structure Leading on acquisitions, disposals, business development and exploiting Group synergies Managing shareholder relations Senior Gill Rider Assisting the Chairman with shareholder communications and being available as an additional point of Independent contact for shareholders Director Being available to other Non-executive Directors if they have any concerns that are not satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman Leading the annual evaluation of performance of the Chairman with the other Non-executive Directors Executive Susan Davy Supporting the Group Chief Executive Officer in providing executive leadership and developing Directors Group strategy Ian McAulay Reporting to the Board on performance and developments within their business areas Implementing decisions of the Board Managing their own specific business responsibilities Non-executive Martin Angle Critically reviewing the strategies proposed for the Group Directors Neil Cooper Critically examining the operational and financial performance of the Group Gill Rider Evaluating proposals from management and constructively challenging managements recommendations Contributing to corporate accountability through being active members of the Committees of the Board www.
co. uk 2016 63 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION THE BOARD AND ITS GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED BOARD ATTENDANCE, OPERATION AND ACTIVITIES The Board operates by receiving written reports circulated usually The Directors and their attendance at the 10 scheduled meetings in advance of the meetings from the Executive Directors and the of the Board during 2015 16 are shown below: Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on matters within their respective business areas of the Group.
When appropriate, the Board also receives presentations on key areas of the business Appointment and undertakes site visits to gain a better understanding of the Members date Attendance operation of business initiatives.
Kenneth Harvey March 1997 4 4 Chairman until 31 July 2015 Under the guidance of the Chairman, all matters before the Sir John Parker April 2015 9 10 Board are discussed openly.
Presentations and advice are received Deputy Chairman and frequently from other senior executives within the Group Non-executive Director and from external advisers to facilitate the decision-making of until 31 July 2015 and the Board.
Chairman thereafter BOARD SUPPORT AND TRAINING Non-executive Directors: Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Martin Angle December 2008 10 10 General Counsel & Company Secretary, and the Board has an established procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil Gerard Connell October 2003 4 4 their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Neil Cooper September 2014 9 10 Gill Rider September 2012 10 10 Newly appointed Directors receive a formal induction which includes an explanation of the Group structure, regulatory and Executive Directors: legal issues, the Group governance framework and policies, the Groups approach to risk management and its principal risks Susan Davy February 2015 10 10 financial and non-financial, duties and obligations including Christopher Loughlin August 2006 10 10 protocols around conflicts of interest and dealing in shares, and the current activities of the Board and its Committees.
Directors Ian McAulay September 2013 10 10 also visit operating facilities across the Group and have meetings with staff to receive briefings on key processes and systems.
Sir John Parker and Neil Cooper were each unable to attend a Board meeting on one occasion due to a prior commitment that The training needs of Directors are reviewed as part of the was scheduled before their appointment to the Board.
Boards performance evaluation process each year.
Training consists of attendance at external courses organised by In accordance with the governance framework set out on page professional advisers and also internal presentations from 62, the Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The Board delegates more detailed consideration of certain matters to Board Committees, to the Executive Directors PERFORMANCE EVALUATION and to the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, as The Board has well-developed internal procedures to evaluate appropriate.
The matters reserved to the Board include: the performance of the whole Board, each Committee, the Chairman, each individual Director and the Group General approval of the full-year and half-year results announcements Counsel & Company Secretary.
the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts including the financial statements The evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was facilitated by an external governance all acquisitions and disposals consultancy, Lintstock.
All participants views were sought via an major items of capital expenditure online questionnaire on a range of questions that were designed authority levels for other expenditure by Lintstock following consultation with the Chairman and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary to ensure risk management process and monitoring of risks objective evaluation of performance.
Responses were then approval of the strategic plan and annual operating budgets analysed and summarised by Lintstock for the Board and each Group policies, procedures and delegations Committee to consider and determine possible improvement appointments to the Board and its Committees.
Apart from providing services relating to pension scheme board and committees performance evaluations and an insider The Pennon Group Board now operates as a plenary board list governance system, Lintstock has no other connection with covering Group and Viridor matters and separately, when the Company.
appropriate, as the board of South West Water.
This is to ensure governance of South West Water in compliance with Ofwats principles on board leadership, transparency and governance.
64 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board considered the 2015 16 performance evaluation which The Board confirms that it applies procedures in accordance it concluded was a thorough and valuable assessment of Board with the UK Code and the FRC Internal Control Guidance which performance although it was recognised that the new governance brings together elements of best practice for risk management structure had only just been introduced and therefore there and internal control by companies.
The Boards risk framework was a need to allow it to bed in before further review.
described on page 51 in the strategic report provides for the Nevertheless some actions were considered desirable to improve identification of key risks including environmental, social and performance which related to a further drive to achieve more governance ESG risks in relation to the achievement of the succinct reporting by executives and careful time management business objectives of the Group, monitoring of such risks and by the Board to ensure critical matters and strategic issues were ongoing and annual evaluation of the overall process.
The Board has agreed a performance action As part of the review of the effectiveness of the system of plan against which the Group Company Secretary will monitor risk management and internal control under the Group risk developments during the year and ensure, in conjunction with management policy, all Executive Directors and senior managers the Chairman and Executive Directors, that the agreed actions are required to certify on an annual basis that they have effective are implemented.
controls in place to manage risks and to operate in compliance The main area for action that had been identified as a result of with legislation and Group procedures.
the 2014 15 performance evaluation namely a focus on strategy The Group also has policies covering suspected fraud, anti-bribery at a time of transition with the new Chairman has been followed and whistleblowing.
Allegations of misconduct and irregularity up during the year and has resulted in a refreshed strategy are thoroughly investigated and follow-up action in respect of the as outlined on page 8 and described in more detail on pages Groups control environment is taken when appropriate.
In the 14 to 17. normal course of business, investigations into irregularities may be The Chairmans performance was evaluated separately ongoing as of the date of the approval of the financial statements.
by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior The Groups processes and policies serve to ensure that a Independent Director.
culture of effective control and risk management is embedded throughout the Group and that the Group is in a position to BOARD COMMITTEES TERMS OF REFERENCE react appropriately to new risks as they arise.
Details of key risks In accordance with Group policies, a range of key matters are affecting the Group are set out in the strategic report on pages delegated to the Boards Committees as set out on pages 66 to 52 to 54.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards Committees are set out on the Companys website www.
co. uk or available upon request to the Group Company Secretary.
DEALING WITH DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST In accordance with the directors interest provision of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of Directors conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND THE GROUPS SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been in place throughout 2015 16 and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups system of internal control has been further reviewed to take account of the FRCs new Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting FRC Internal Control Guidance, which is applicable to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. www.
