GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board considers each of its Non-executive Directors The Board believes its Directors have an appropriate range of to be independent in accordance with the UK Corporate experience to oversee the business of the Group.
However, during a period of transition on the Board, the female representation fell to 22% between April and July 2015 but then increased to 28.6% following the 2015 AGM.
CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Sir John Parker Christopher Loughlin GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, DSc Hon, BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA DUniv Hon, FRINA Chris was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2006 upon joining Pennon Group as Chief Executive of South West Water.
He became Sir John was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman on 1 April the Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
Chris is chairman of 2015 and became Chairman on 1 August 2015.
He is also chairman of the Pennon Executive Management Board and a member of the the Nomination Committee.
Sir John is recognised as a highly experienced and independent Chris was previously chief operating officer with Lloyds Register chairman and brings a wealth of leadership experience across a range and earlier in his career was an executive director of British Nuclear of industries.
He was previously the chairman of National Grid Plc, Fuels Plc and executive chairman of Magnox Electric Plc.
He was senior non-executive director and chair of the Court of the Bank of also a senior diplomat in the British Embassy, Tokyo.
Chris started England, deputy chairman of DP World, joint chair of Mondi and chair his career as a chartered engineer working in both the consulting of BVT and P&O Plc.
and contracting sectors and subsequently held a number of senior External appointments positions with British Nuclear Fuels.
Between April 2008 and March Sir John is the chairman of Anglo American Plc.
He is also a 2012 he was chairman of Water UK.
non-executive director of Carnival Corporation and Airbus Group.
External appointments Sir John is a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford and was Currently Chris is vice chairman of the Cornwall Local Enterprise president of the Royal Academy of Engineering from 2011 to 2014.
Partnership and a trustee and member of the audit committee Sir Johns significant commitments in the year have reduced with his of WaterAid.
He is a board member and past president of the stepping down as deputy chairman of DP World in July 2015.
60 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS Martin Angle Neil Cooper Susan Davy BSc Hons, FCA, MCSI BSc Hons, FCMA BSc Hons, ACA Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer Martin was appointed to the Board on Neil joined the Board on 1 September 2014.
Susan joined the Board on 1 February 2015.
He is chairman of He is chairman of the Audit Committee and She is a member of the Pennon Executive the Remuneration Committee and a is currently a member of the Remuneration Management Board.
Susan is a graduate member of the Audit, Nomination and and Nomination Committees.
qualified chartered accountant with 20 years Sustainability Committees.
experience in the utility sector.
Neil was previously group finance director Formerly, Martin had senior positions with of William Hill Plc and before that he was Susan was previously finance and regulatory Terra Firma Capital Partners and various group finance director of Bovis Homes director of South West Water, a position to of its portfolio companies, including the Group Plc.
He also held senior finance which she was appointed in August 2007. executive chairmanship of Waste Recycling roles with Whitbread Plc, worked for Prior to joining Pennon Group she held Group Limited.
Before that he was the  as a management a number of senior posts with Yorkshire group finance director of TI Group Plc consultant and held a number of roles with Water including head of regulation and head having previously held a number of senior Reckitt & Colman Plc.
of finance in its Waste Water Unit and was investment banking positions with SG head of finance for Brey Utilities, a joint External appointments Warburg & Co. Ltd, Morgan Stanley and venture company owned by Yorkshire Water Neil is currently the chief financial officer of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
During the year, having completed his full External appointments terms of office, he retired from the boards Susan is a council member of of OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital psc and CBI South West.
the National Exhibition Group where he was chairman.
External appointments Martin is currently the senior independent director at Savills Plc, the vice chairman and non-executive director of the FIA Foundation, and the adviser to the board of GROUP COMPANY the Commercial Bank of Dubai.
SECRETARY Ian McAulay Gill Rider Helen Barrett-Hague BEng, CEng, MICE, MCIWEM CB, PhD, CCIPD Solicitor, LLB Hons Chief Executive, Viridor Senior Independent Director Group General Counsel & Ian was appointed to the Board on 9 Gill was appointed to the Board on 1 Company Secretary September 2013.
He is chairman of September 2012.
She is chairman of Helen joined Pennon Group as Group the Viridor Executive Management the Sustainability Committee and a General Counsel & Company Secretary to Board and a member of the Pennon member of the Audit, Remuneration and the Board in March 2016.
Executive Management Board and the Nomination Committees.
She began her career in private practice Sustainability Committee.
Formerly, Gill was head of the Civil Service before moving in-house in 1999.
Helen Ian was previously chief of global strategy and Capability Group in the Cabinet Office subsequently held positions of increasing corporate development with MWH Global reporting to the Cabinet Secretary and responsibility with the Generics Group based in the US, and before that he was the prior to that held a number of senior AG, Aveva Group Plc and Alent Plc.
She managing director, capital programmes, at positions with Accenture LLP culminating in has worked both in the UK and overseas United Utilities Plc.
Ian started his career as the post of chief leadership officer for the and has extensive corporate experience, a consulting civil engineer and held a number global firm.
She was previously president including capital raisings, initial public of positions with Crouch & Hogg in Glasgow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and offerings, corporate restructuring, mergers and subsequently Montgomery Watson, Development and a non-executive director and acquisitions.
She has previously held a which merged in 2001 with Harza to form of fide La Rue Plc.
External appointments Gill currently holds non-executive External appointments directorships with Charles Taylor Plc, where Ian is a member of the board of the she is senior independent director, and Environmental Services Association, the Intertek Group Plc.
She is chairman of both Greater Manchester Low Carbon Hub their remuneration committees.
She is also board and the Scottish Governments 2020 chair of the council board of the University Climate Group.
