GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD COMMITTEES REPORTS THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Dear Shareholder AND MEETINGS I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committees report in my The membership of the Committee, together with appointment first full year as chairman of the Committee.
dates and attendance at meetings during 2015 16, is set out below: The principal responsibilities of the Committee are focused Members Appointment date Attendance firstly on the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, including the accounting judgements made in preparing reporting, Neil Cooper September 2014 7 7 secondly the ongoing effectiveness of the internal control Committee chairman environment and thirdly the risk management processes across Gerard Connell October 2003 2 2 the Group, including challenging and testing the Groups risk appetite.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Martin Angle December 2008 7 7 external auditor and the internal audit function is an important Gill Rider September 2012 7 7 element of the Committees assurance activities.
These responsibilities are discharged throughout the year in accordance Retired on 31 July 2015 with the calendar of business of the Committee, which is Other regular attendees to our meetings during the year included: designed to allow sufficient time for their consideration whilst also permitting time to be spent on related key financial matters.
Group Chief Executive following appointment on 1 January 2016 New significant matters considered during the year included Group Director of Finance now retitled Chief a review of the Groups delegated authorities and financial Financial Officer procedures which, following the appointment of a Group Chief Chief Executive, South West Water until 31 December 2015 Executive Officer for the first time, were refreshed to ensure ongoing alignment with Group requirements and the risk profiles Chief Executive, Viridor of the businesses, and a review of the long-lived asset cash Group General Counsel & Company Secretary generating units CGUs within Viridor, which were realigned to Managing Director, South West Water following appointment ensure they remained consistent with the evolving operational on 1 January 2016 and management focus of the business.
Finance Director, South West Water The Committee has also reviewed progress on Viridors Finance Director, Viridor Enterprise business transformation and systems integration solution, which is progressing on a multi-year timescale, to ensure Group Financial Controller assurance protocols are in place, and the internal controls and Group Audit Manager audit systems in place in Bournemouth Water which was acquired External auditor.
It was pleasing to note that they were determined to be robust and appropriate to the size of the business.
In preparation for the revised governance structure detailed on We are mindful of the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance page 62 two South West Water non-executive directors, Martin Code the UK Code and supporting FRC guidance on risk Hagen and Lord Matthew Taylor, also attended the last two reporting.
As a result, we have further reviewed the risk meetings of the Committee in the year.
management processes in place across the Group and have In addition, the Chairman of the Group, Ken Harvey until 31 endorsed the establishment of a new Group executive risk July 2015 and Sir John Parker as his successor from this date, has management forum to assess risk appetite and monitor key had an open invitation to attend the Committee meetings.
In risks and their mitigation.
More detail on our risk management processes, principal risks and their mitigation can be found on pages the last year the Chairman has attended those meetings where 51 to 55.
Aligned with this we have also assessed the Companys the Committee has reviewed the half-year and full-year financial viability over a period of five years, which we consider to be results of the Group.
aligned with key business cycle periods in the water business and In accordance with the UK Code, the Board is satisfied that Neil the longer-term nature of Viridors ERF assets, as well as being Cooper and Martin Angle have recent and relevant financial reasonable in terms of our ability to look forward with some experience and also, in accordance with FCA Rule Disclosure and certainty in the business and regulatory environment in which the Company operates.
Our viability statement is reported on page 55.
1R, have competence in accounting and or auditing.
Details of each Directors significant current and prior As part of the half-year and year-end reporting review process, appointments are set out on pages 60 and 61. we reviewed and challenged the key judgements of management as set out on page 68.
Significant matters considered by the All of the Committee members are also members of the Committee both during the year and in relation to the year-end Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide financial statements are explained in this report.
input into both Committees on any Group performance matters and on the management of any risk factors relevant to Neil Cooper remuneration matters.
Audit Committee Chairman 66 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NEIL COOPER, AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN SIGNIFICANT MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE The calendar of business of the Committee provides a framework for ensuring that it manages its affairs efficiently and effectively throughout the year and is able to concentrate on the key matters that affect the Group.
The most significant matters that the Committee considered and made decisions on during the year and, where appropriate, since the year end, are set out below: Financial reporting Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and the half-year and full-year results announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, including reviewing and discussing significant financial reporting judgements contained in the statements.
After a detailed review in accordance with its established process, advised the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with reporting requirements and recommended their approval for publication.
Internal control and Quarterly review of internal audit reports on core systems and processes across the Group, including Group treasury, compliance credit management, reactive operational maintenance, payroll, procurement practices, energy recovery facility control environment, information security and IT risks, water leakage management, customer facing processes including billing and collection, and business continuity management.
Reviewed internal control framework for the Group.
Monitored performance on specific matters including Viridors Project Enterprise business transformation project.
External auditor Considered auditors report on its review of the annual results focusing on key findings.
Assessed external auditor and its effectiveness in respect of the previous years external audit process.
Recommended to the Board reappointment of the external auditor for approval at the Annual General Meeting with the Committee being authorised to agree the external auditors remuneration.
Considered and approved the audit plan and audit fee proposal for the external auditor.
Monitored the provision of non-audit services.
Risk management Reviewed the risk management framework and compliance with that framework during the year and after the year-end up until the publication of the Companys annual report.
Reviewed the assessment of the risks by the Executive Directors and considered risk appetite.
Reviewed the Group risk register and considered appropriate areas of focus and prioritisation for the audit work programme for the year.
Received as part of the risk management review the annual report on any whistleblowing.
Introduced regular deep dives at Committee meetings on specific areas.
Governance Discussed the annual evaluation exercise of the Committee and agreed action plans to further improve the Committees performance.
Reviewed new annual report disclosure requirements including the audit report.
Considered and approved Group accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements.
Reviewed a number of updated Group policies covering financial delegations, foreign exchange, whistleblowing and suspected fraud, anti-bribery and other irregularities.
Confirmed compliance with the UK Code.
Regularly held separate meetings with the external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager without members of management being present.
co. uk 2016 67 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD COMMITTEES REPORTS CONTINUED THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In respect of the monitoring of the integrity of the financial significant matters arising in respect of financial reporting during statements, which is a key responsibility of the Committee the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as reported identified in the UK Code, the significant areas of judgement on in the independent auditors report on pages 104 to 113. considered in relation to the financial statements for the In addition to the significant matters set out in the table below, year ended 31 March 2016 are set out in the following table, the Committee considered a range of other areas including together with details of how each matter was addressed by the presentational issues, in particular relating to non-underlying Committee.
At the Committees meetings throughout the year disclosure and changes to asset lives following external the Committee and the external auditor have discussed the expert review.
Area of focus by the Committee How the matter was addressed by the Committee Revenue recognition Once again there were a number of judgement areas in respect of revenue recognition relating to income from measured water services, estimates of timing of receipt of unmeasured revenue, accounting for revenue from long-term service concession arrangements under IFRIC 12 and calculation of accrued income on waste management contracts and powergen.
The Committee relied on South West Waters track record of assessing an appropriate level of accrual at previous year ends given actual outturns and Viridors internal processes for analysing complex long-term contracts.
The Committee also considered the work in respect of these areas at year end by the external auditor who was satisfied with the approach taken in each business.
Non-current asset impairment Recognising that the value of certain non-current assets and long-term environmental provisions within review and provisions Viridor is sensitive to changes in assumptions over future discount rates and cash flow projections which require judgement, the Committee pays careful attention to asset impairment and provisions and the review of goodwill.
In addition, in the year management reviewed the evolving structure of the cash generating units CGUs with the objective of ensuring the determination of CGUs remained consistent with both the waste market and Viridors operating model.
The change in CGU determination resulted in impairment reversals and charges being recognised in the year.
This key area was also reviewed as part of the year-end audit by the external auditor.
Following a detailed review of the analysis undertaken, and consideration of management assumptions in relation to the revised structure of the CGUs, the Committee was satisfied that a robust and consistent approach had been followed and that the managements assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were not impaired was reasonable, and therefore the Committee were able to approve the disclosures in the financial statements.
South West Water and Viridor Regular updates on progress against debt collection targets and other contractual payments due are received bad and doubtful debts by the Board.
Performance is monitored regularly against South West Waters historical collection record and the track record of other companies in the sector.
At the year end the external auditor reported on the work it had performed, which together with the detailed analysis reported on to the Committee enabled the Committee to conclude that the managements assessment of the year-end position was reasonable.
Provisions for uncertain tax It has been and remains the general policy of the Group to take a balanced view of its tax position and only positions release tax provisions when matters under discussion are expected to be cleared by HM Revenue & Customs.
At the year end the Chief Financial Officer provided an update to the Board on progress in resolving a number of tax positions the background to which had been considered in detail by the Committee on a regular basis as part of progress reports from the Chief Financial Officer.
It was noted that where appropriate expert external legal advice and other specialist taxation advice had been sought which assisted the Committee in forming a view on the appropriateness of the provisions for uncertain tax positions and related tax disclosures in the financial statements.
Going concern basis for the A monthly report from the Chief Financial Officer on the financial performance of the Group including preparation of the financial forward-looking assessments of covenant compliance and funding levels under differing scenarios is provided statements and viability statement to the Board.
Rolling five-year strategy projections and the resultant headroom relative to borrowings is also regularly reviewed by the Board.
At each half-year end the Chief Financial Officer prepares for consideration by the Committee a report focusing on the Groups liquidity over the 12-month period from the date of signing either the annual report or half-year results.
This year the Committee has also considered a report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial viability over an appropriate period, which the Board considers to be five years, in connection with the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirement for a viability statement to be given by the Board.
Consideration of these reports and constructive challenge on the findings of the reports, including the scenario testing carried out by management, has enabled the Committee to form its assessment and satisfy itself that it remains appropriate for the Group to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements and in addition advise the Board on providing the viability statement set out on page 55.
68 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS The level of non-audit fees payable to the external auditor for Receiving high quality and effective audit services is of paramount the past year is 15.74% of the audit fee, which is well within the importance to the Committee.
We continue to monitor Groups 70% non-audit fee limit.
carefully the effectiveness of our external auditor as well as its The Chief Financial Officer regularly reports to the Committee independence, bearing in mind that it is recognised there is a need on the extent of services provided to the Company by the to use our external auditors firm for certain non-audit services.
external auditor and the level of fees paid.
The fees paid to We have full regard to the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical the external auditors firm for non-audit services and for audit Standards and ensure that our procedures and safeguards meet services are set out in note 7 to the financial statements on these standards.
The current external auditor was appointed following a INTERNAL AUDIT comprehensive audit tender process and approval by shareholders The internal audit activities of the Group are a key part of the at the Companys 2014 AGM.
Their reappointment was approved internal control and risk management framework of the Group.
At Group level there is a long-standing and effective centralised The external auditor produced a detailed audit planning report internal audit service led by an experienced head of function who in preparation for the year-end financial statements, which has makes a significant contribution to the ability of the Committee to assisted the auditor in delivering the timely audit of the Groups deliver its responsibilities.
annual report and financial statements.
A Group internal audit plan is approved usually in September The effectiveness review of the external auditor is undertaken each year.
It takes account of the principal risks, the activities to be as part of the Committees annual performance evaluation.
undertaken by the external auditor, and also the Groups annual The review demonstrated that there was satisfaction with the and ongoing risk management reviews.
This approach seeks performance of the external auditor.
Accordingly, the Committee to ensure that there is a programme of internal and external considered that it is appropriate that the external auditor be audit reviews focused on identified key risk areas throughout re-appointed and has made this recommendation to the Board.
The Committee chairman has also met privately with the The Group Internal Audit Manager reports quarterly to the external auditor.
Committee on audit reviews undertaken and their findings, and there are regular discussions, correspondence and private AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE meetings between the Group Internal Audit Manager and the The Committee carefully reviews on an ongoing basis the Committee chairman.
relationship with the external auditor to ensure that the auditors independence and objectivity is fully safeguarded.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT To enable the Committee to advise the Board in making its The external auditor reported on their independence in the statement that it considered that the Companys Annual Report year and since the year end and confirmed to the Committee and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable FBU on page that they have complied with the Auditing Practices Boards 101, the Committee has applied a detailed FBU review framework Ethical Standards and, based on their assessment, that they were that takes account of the Groups well-documented verification independent of the Group.
process undertaken in conjunction with the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This is in addition to the formal PROVISION OF NON-AUDIT SERVICES process carried out by the external auditor to enable the The Committee has a restrictive policy for the engagement of preparation of the independent auditors report, which is set out the external auditors firm for non-audit work.
The policy is for on pages 104 to 113. non-audit fees not to exceed 70% of the audit fee for statutory work.
Where fees for non-audit work exceed 50% of the In preparing and finalising the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, annual audit fees but are less than 70%, the Committee must the Committee considered a report on the actions taken by be notified of the assignment with a summary report on the management in accordance with the FBU process and an FBU background and the reasons for using the auditor for the work.
assessment undertaken by each Group executive management In exceptional circumstances, where there is good rationale for board.
This assisted the Committee in carrying out its own the auditors non-audit fees to exceed 70%, the Chief Financial assessment and being able to advise the Board that it considered Officer is required to set out in a report to the Committee that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, the reasons why the auditors firm should be appointed for any balanced and understandable and provides the information such work.
The Committee would carefully review whether it necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, was necessary for the auditors firm to carry out such work and business model and strategy.
would only grant approval for the firms appointment if it was satisfied that the auditors independence and objectivity would be STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH CMA ORDER fully safeguarded.
If there was another accounting firm that could Having undertaken a competitive audit tender process in provide the required level of experience and expertise in respect 2014, the Company is in compliance with the Statutory Audit of the non-audit services, then such firm would be chosen in Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory preference to the external auditor.
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. www.
