GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD COMMITTEES REPORTS THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Dear Shareholder AND MEETINGS I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committees report in my The membership of the Committee, together with appointment first full year as chairman of the Committee.
dates and attendance at meetings during 2015 16, is set out below: The principal responsibilities of the Committee are focused Members Appointment date Attendance firstly on the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, including the accounting judgements made in preparing reporting, Neil Cooper September 2014 7 7 secondly the ongoing effectiveness of the internal control Committee chairman environment and thirdly the risk management processes across Gerard Connell October 2003 2 2 the Group, including challenging and testing the Groups risk appetite.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Martin Angle December 2008 7 7 external auditor and the internal audit function is an important Gill Rider September 2012 7 7 element of the Committees assurance activities.
These responsibilities are discharged throughout the year in accordance Retired on 31 July 2015 with the calendar of business of the Committee, which is Other regular attendees to our meetings during the year included: designed to allow sufficient time for their consideration whilst also permitting time to be spent on related key financial matters.
Group Chief Executive following appointment on 1 January 2016 New significant matters considered during the year included Group Director of Finance now retitled Chief a review of the Groups delegated authorities and financial Financial Officer procedures which, following the appointment of a Group Chief Chief Executive, South West Water until 31 December 2015 Executive Officer for the first time, were refreshed to ensure ongoing alignment with Group requirements and the risk profiles Chief Executive, Viridor of the businesses, and a review of the long-lived asset cash Group General Counsel & Company Secretary generating units CGUs within Viridor, which were realigned to Managing Director, South West Water following appointment ensure they remained consistent with the evolving operational on 1 January 2016 and management focus of the business.
Finance Director, South West Water The Committee has also reviewed progress on Viridors Finance Director, Viridor Enterprise business transformation and systems integration solution, which is progressing on a multi-year timescale, to ensure Group Financial Controller assurance protocols are in place, and the internal controls and Group Audit Manager audit systems in place in Bournemouth Water which was acquired External auditor.
It was pleasing to note that they were determined to be robust and appropriate to the size of the business.
In preparation for the revised governance structure detailed on We are mindful of the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance page 62 two South West Water non-executive directors, Martin Code the UK Code and supporting FRC guidance on risk Hagen and Lord Matthew Taylor, also attended the last two reporting.
As a result, we have further reviewed the risk meetings of the Committee in the year.
management processes in place across the Group and have In addition, the Chairman of the Group, Ken Harvey until 31 endorsed the establishment of a new Group executive risk July 2015 and Sir John Parker as his successor from this date, has management forum to assess risk appetite and monitor key had an open invitation to attend the Committee meetings.
In risks and their mitigation.
More detail on our risk management processes, principal risks and their mitigation can be found on pages the last year the Chairman has attended those meetings where 51 to 55.
Aligned with this we have also assessed the Companys the Committee has reviewed the half-year and full-year financial viability over a period of five years, which we consider to be results of the Group.
aligned with key business cycle periods in the water business and In accordance with the UK Code, the Board is satisfied that Neil the longer-term nature of Viridors ERF assets, as well as being Cooper and Martin Angle have recent and relevant financial reasonable in terms of our ability to look forward with some experience and also, in accordance with FCA Rule Disclosure and certainty in the business and regulatory environment in which the Company operates.
Our viability statement is reported on page 55.
1R, have competence in accounting and or auditing.
Details of each Directors significant current and prior As part of the half-year and year-end reporting review process, appointments are set out on pages 60 and 61. we reviewed and challenged the key judgements of management as set out on page 68.
Significant matters considered by the All of the Committee members are also members of the Committee both during the year and in relation to the year-end Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide financial statements are explained in this report.
input into both Committees on any Group performance matters and on the management of any risk factors relevant to Neil Cooper remuneration matters.
Audit Committee Chairman 66 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
