PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 18 GOVERNANCE THE COMPANYS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board and Committees Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources investment management to the Manager and administration to the Manager and other external service providers.
The Board Six non-executive directors Chairman Bill Alexander Key objectives: to set strategy, values and standards: to provide leadership within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Remuneration Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Function Function Chairman Chairman The Board as a whole The Board as a whole Richard Laing Bill Alexander performs this function performs this function Other members: Other members: Bill Alexander Vivian Bazalgette Vivian Bazalgette Victoria Cochrane Victoria Cochrane Alan Giles Alan Giles Richard Laing Key objectives: Key objective: Key objective: Key objectives: to review regularly to set the to review regularly to oversee the the Boards remuneration policy the management control environment structure and of the Company.
contract and the and financial composition: and performance of the reporting: and to make Manager.
to review other recommendations service providers, for any changes or including the new appointments.
The Portfolio Manager The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, is based in Henley-on-Thames.
Mark is Head of UK Equities and is one of the teams most experienced fund managers who specialises in UK equity income investing.
In this role, Mark is responsible for the management of a number of UK equity portfolios, with a focus on the management of open and closed ended vehicles.
Mark joined Perpetual in 1996 and has been the investment manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust since 1999.
Mark started his investment career in 1992 at Mercury Asset Management.
He graduated in French and Politics from Reading University in 1992 and has passed the associated examinations of the Association for Investment Management and Research AIMR.
