PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 23 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2016 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the latest AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment Companies website www.
The UK Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except the provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board The Board comprises six non-executive Directors, five of whom are considered independent.
Bob Yerbury was a Senior Managing Director of Invesco Limited and a Director of Invesco Asset Management Limited until his retirement on 27 March 2013.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as a recent employee of the Manager, he is not considered independent.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of both Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, in light of them having served on the Board for over nine years and has concluded that they continue to be effective in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities to the Board.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Board consider that they remain independent, a view which has been demonstrated by their actions on behalf of the Company and their other business interests.
The Board meets on a regular basis and at least five times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained between the Manager, the Company Secretary and the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with reports from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
Board and Committee Composition and Succession Planning Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
The Board has a formal succession plan in place and, at least annually, reviews both the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees and individual Directors.
Following a review of the current and future requirements of the Board as part of the Boards succession planning and the planned retirement of two Directors during the year, a recruitment process was initiated with the objective of identifying suitable candidates.
An independent specialist recruitment consultancy, The Miles Partnership, was engaged to assist the Board in achieving this objective.
A number of high calibre candidates were identified and two new Directors, Victoria Cochrane and Alan Giles, were subsequently appointed.
The biographies of these, and all the Directors are set out on page 17.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 24 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of the role.
The Chairman is Bill Alexander, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Senior Independent Director Vivian Bazalgette, is the appointed Senior Independent Director SID.
The SID provides a sounding board for the Chairman, serves as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary and provides a channel of communication for shareholders where contact through the Chairman or Company Secretary have failed to resolve the issue or where that channel of communication is inappropriate.
Board Responsibilities The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company taking into consideration the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the need to foster the Companys business relationships with its Manager and advisers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment, the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct and the need to act fairly as between stakeholders of the Company.
In order to promote the success of the Company, the Board directs and supervises its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule is reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code and is available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and on the on Companys section of the Managers website.
The main responsibilities of the Board include: setting policies and standards, ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with, approving accounting and dividend policies, managing the capital structure, setting long-term objectives and strategy, assessing risk, reviewing investment performance, approving loans and borrowing, approving recommendations presented by the Companys respective Board Committees, mitigating risks and the ongoing assessment of the Manager.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the annual and half-yearly financial reports, fact sheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in or accepting bribery for and on behalf of the Company.
To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000 having first consulted with the Chairman.
Remuneration The Board as a whole operates as a Remuneration Committee, including determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The remuneration of Directors is reviewed periodically and reported on in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 34.
Nominations The Board as a whole operates as a Nominations Committee.
This includes regularly reviewing the composition of the Board and its committees and evaluating whether they have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge of the Company, and identifying suitable candidates where required.
The appointment, re-election and tenure of Directors is explained on page 25.
24 PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 25 GOVERNANCE The Audit Committee The composition and activities of the Audit Committee are summarised in the Audit Committee Report on pages 29 to 31, which is included in this Directors Report by reference.
The Management Engagement Committee MEC The MEC comprises Bill Alexander, Victoria Cochrane, Alan Giles, Vivian Bazalgette and Richard Laing, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the MEC is Bill Alexander.
The MEC has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference are reviewed at least annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM, the registered office of the Company and on the Companys section of the Managers website.
The MEC meets at least annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager and Company Secretary.
The MECs assessment of the Manager can be found on page 27.
Appointment, Re-election and Tenure of Directors On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Directors are responsible for reviewing the size, structure and skills of the Board and considering any necessary changes or new appointments.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, on the Companys section of the Managers website and will be available at the AGM.
The Board has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of any new Director to the Board.
This ensures that the Board and its committees have the correct composition and balance, and that the Companys Directors have the necessary skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
The Board considers the ability of any new director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity including gender.
In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, at every AGM all Directors shall retire and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and each Director demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders their support for resolutions2 through to7 relating to the Directors.
The Articles will be available at the AGM and can be inspected at the registered office address of the Company.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Company has in place a formal system of performance evaluation which is undertaken by the Board annually.
The appropriateness and benefits of externally facilitated Board evaluation were considered by the Board during the year and information was sought from service providers in this regard.
The Board intends to consider the use of external evaluation again next year.
In 2014an external consultant, Trust Associates Limited, undertook an exercise to assess the effectiveness and performance of individual Directors, the Board as a whole and its committees.
The results were satisfactory, with the Directors being deemed to devote sufficient time to their duties and to be effective in their roles.
For the current year, the Board has conducted a formal internally facilitated evaluation of its performance, that of its committees and of individual Directors.
The findings indicated that the Directors individually, and the Board as a whole, continued to function efficiently, that the composition of the Board is appropriately aligned to the Companys activities and that the Directors are able to effectively discharge their responsibilities to the Company and its members.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 26 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All the Directors are considered to have an excellent attendance record at Board and Committee Meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
In addition, Directors also attended several ad-hoc meetings as required between scheduled meetings.
MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS Number of meetings: 53 2 Meetings attended: Bill Alexander 53 2 Vivian Bazalgette 53 2 Victoria Cochrane appointed 28 October 2015 22 1 Alan Giles appointed 6 November 2015 22 1 Richard Laing 53 2 Bob Yerbury 53 n a Antony Hardy retired 10 July 2015 2 1 1 Sir Martyn Arbib retired 1 October 2015 3 n a n a All directors attended all Board and committee meetings that took place whilst they were a director.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets, which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Directors consider that these procedures enable the Company to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The Companys internal controls and risk management systems are reviewed at least annually with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Board reviews financial reports and performance against forecasts, stock market indices and the Companys peer group.
The Board also considers reports from the Audit Committee in its capacity of reviewer of the services provided, including the effectiveness of external service providers.
The Audit Committee report on pages29 to 31 describes in more depth its activities.
The Manager Investment Management Agreement and Management Fees Invesco Fund Managers Limited acts as Manager and provides administration services to the Company under an Investment Management Agreement IMA dated 22 July 2014 and two supplemental agreements.
The IMA is terminable by either party giving not less than six months notice: this was reduced from the previous one years notice by the second supplemental agreement dated 28 May 2015.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee based on the Companys funds under management of 0.15% per quarter up to 500 million and 0.10% per quarter thereafter.
A performance-related fee is payable to the Manager annually in arrears if the Companys performance exceeds that of the FTSE All-Share Index, including any brought forward underperformance.
The performance-related fee is equal to 10% of the 26 PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 27 GOVERNANCE value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.5% of the value of the Companys funds under management at the balance sheet date, before deduction of the current years performance fee.
The performance fee for the year amounted to 4,040,000 2015: 5,282,000.
The Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated Investment Policy as determined from time to time by the Board and approved by shareholders.
The Manager also advises on currency and borrowings.
The Manager provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager also maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares annual and half-yearly financial statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
Assessment of the Manager The performance of the Manager in the roles of investment manager, company secretary and administrator is subject to continual review by the Board and an annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
The Board has formally reviewed the Managers performance for the year ended 31 March 2016 and, taking into account the long-term performance of the portfolio, the other services provided by the Manager and the risk and corporate governance environment in which the Company operates, the Board considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the corporate company secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports, that the statutory obligations of the Company are met and acts as a contact for all shareholders.
The appointment and ongoing assessment and review of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis.
The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers Policy on Corporate Governance and Stewardship can be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the publication of monthly factsheets and the NAV of the PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 PIGIT pp17 35 07 06 2016 13:37 Page 28 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Companys ordinary shares, which is published daily via the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys section of the Managers website at www.
A presentation is made by the Manager following the main business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Directors at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and the notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card, via the Managers website or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 62.
At other times the Company responds to queries from shareholders on a range of issues.
There is a clear channel of communication between the Board and the Companys shareholders via the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary has no express authority to respond to enquiries addressed to the Board and all communication, other than junk mail, is redirected to the Chairman.
There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual financial results.
All meetings between the Manager and major shareholders are reported to the Board.
Shareholders can visit the Companys section of the Managers website in order to access copies of annual and half-yearly financial reports, pre-investor information, shareholder circulars, factsheets, Stock Exchange announcements, schedule of matters reserved for the Board, terms of reference of Board Committees, Directors letters of appointment, the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental matters, employees and social and community issues have limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price to book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example, quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made on environmental and social grounds alone.
The Company is able to supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This delivers environmental benefits through the reduced use of paper and of the energy required for its production and distribution.
