54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT AND DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report incorporating the Corporate Governance Statement for the year ended 31 December 2016 Leadership and effectiveness Board composition andcash return policy, monitoring risk and ensuring adequate financial controls are available.
The schedule is reviewed annually The Board comprises eight Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman, by the Board.
three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors have significant housebuilding experience, Board changes having worked for the Group for many years and in differing market conditions and they are supported by a strong Chairman We are pleased to report that Simon Litherland will be joining with good leadership skills and by Non-Executives with broad theBoard on 3 April 2017 as a Non-Executive Director.
the CEO of Britvic Plc and brings extensive executive experience in consumer facing industries, having previously held senior roles Nicholas Wrigley became Chairman in April 2011 and he remains at Diageo, including MD of Diageo Great Britain.
Simon will be an Executive Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
The Chairman appointed to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees encourages open and honest debate in the spirit of constructive on his appointment to the Board.
Nigel Mills joined the Board as a challenge, which results in high quality decision making in all areas Non-Executive Director on 4April2016 and became a member of of strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
the Remuneration Committee on that date.
Jeff Fairburn has been Chief Executive for four years and has We made some changes to the positions held by the Nonworked for the Group since 1989.
Since his appointment as Executive Directors on 14 April 2016, following the resignation ChiefExecutive he has demonstrated strong leadership skills from the Board of two Non-Executive Directors, Richard which enable him to effectively direct and manage the delivery Pennycook and Mark Preston, who both resigned due to time ofthe Groups strategy.
He has extensive housebuilding commitments.
On that date Jonathan Davie became the Senior experience, having held a number of positions within the business.
Independent Director: Rachel Kentleton became Chair of the Audit Mike Killoran has been the Groups Finance Director for the last Committee and Marion Sears was appointed to both the Audit and 18 years and he has very strong finance and housebuilding Nomination Committees.
Dave Jenkinson has extensive In addition, Nigel Greenaway retired from the Board on 14 April housebuilding experience having held senior operational positions 2016 after almost 30 years service with the Group.
Following these within the Group prior to his appointment to the Board.
changes there will be nine Board members, the Chairman, three The Non-Executive Directors have complementary skill sets Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors: women will bringing substantial and diverse experience to the Board.
Nicholas Wrigley and Jonathan Davie both have considerable experience of financial markets: Jonathan is the Senior Key actions of the Board Independent Director.
Marion Sears has extensive experience in banking and retail markets, whilst Rachel Kentleton has similarly The Board reviewed and approved the Companys current strong experience in finance and retail markets in her current role strategy and its commitment to shareholders under the Capital asFinance Director at PayPoint Plc and in her previous role as Return Plan at its annual strategy meeting in October 2016.
Group Director, Strategy & Implementation at EasyJet.
Full details of the current strategy and the Groups progress in achieving the strategy are set out in the Strategic Report on pages Together the balance of skills, experience and personal 2-49.
The implementation of the Board strategy and policies are characteristics of the Non-Executive Directors result in a diversity delegated to Executive Directors and senior management within of views and opinions to support and where appropriate, the Group.
challenge the Executive Directors and to provide sound advice and judgement on the formation and implementation of the Groups The Board met on six occasions in 2016, including its annual strategy.
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all Directors Governance Code 2014 the Governance Code there is a clear atallBoard and Committee meetings during the year.
written division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the There was particular focus by the Board during 2016 on Chief Executive, whichis approved by the Board.
maintaining a high quality skilled workforce to support the growth The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its of the business, in particular on the Boards commitment to consideration and decision.
The schedule includes the approval training, including our Combat to Construction and Upskill to of the Groups strategy, major investments, annual and half year Construction initiatives.
We have over 500 graduates, apprentices results and trading updates, review of performance, dividend and trainees in our business.
We maintained our focus on Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 55 health and safety, the health and wellbeing of our employees, Accordingly the Board reiterates its belief in Nigels independence, subcontractors and visitors to our sites is of paramount importance which importantly has been clearly demonstrated in debate and we continue to ensure all of our sites continue to be a in both Board and Remuneration Committee meetings since safe environment.
The Board has continued to focus on driving improvements in The Company has procedures in place to ensure that Directors customer care.
During 2016 the main focus was on continuing disclose any situation in which they may have an interest, direct or to ensure the quality of our build, particularly with the drive to indirect, which conflicts or may possibly conflict with the interests increase production over the last few years and on improving of the Company.
No authority to authorise a conflict of interest has the customers buying experience.
The focus in 2017 will be on been required during 2016. continued improvement of customer care in the first few weeks after purchase has completed.
Re-election of Directors The Board also undertook a rigorous review of the Principal Risks, In accordance with the Governance Code all of the Directors the Group Risk Register and the Groups systems of internal will stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board has carefully evaluated the risks faced reasons for supporting the re-election of the Chairman Nicholas by the Group, particularly after the UKs referendum result to leave Wrigley and Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Davie, Marion the EU and the potential impact on the market.
Further information Sears, Rachel Kentleton and Nigel Mills are that they have is set out in our Principal Risks and on page 29 of this report.
individually produced excellent performance in their duties and have shown a high level of independence and commitment to Board diversity and independence their roles.
They further support the election of Simon Litherland by shareholders for the first time.
The Board considers that Simon The Board recognises that a diverse workforce can bring benefits will make an excellent addition to the Board and that his executive to the Group and by the same measure the Directors recognise experience in consumer facing industries will add to the experience the value diversity, including gender diversity, can bring to the of the Board and complement the current skills of the Directors.
When considering the nomination and appointment of new Directors, the Nomination Committee determines the skills Performance evaluation and and experience which would be of benefit to the composition of the Board and then evaluates candidates skills, knowledge and professional development experience to determine which candidate would be most suitable.
The Board and Committees evaluate their performance annually.
All nominations by the Committee are made on the basis of merit and overall suitability, taking into consideration the diversity of the During 2016 the Board and its Committees undertook internal Board.
During the year the Board reviewed its diversity policy, and evaluations based ontheprinciples outlined in the Governance confirm it remains appropriate.
Code and with evaluation criteria linked to the Groups strategy, performance and governance.
This is an opportunity for each The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Davie, Board and Committee member to give their frank views on what Marion Sears, Rachel Kentleton and Nigel Mills to be independent.
we do well and where we can improve.
Some small changes were Simon Litherland, who will be appointed as a Non-Executive suggested and improvements will be made where appropriate in Director on 3 April 2017 is also considered to be independent.
line with corporate governance best practice.
Nigel Mills, a Senior Advisor at Citigroup Global Markets, joined the In addition to the Board and Committee evaluations, the Chairman Board on 4 April 2016 and was re-elected at the Companys AGM.
undertakes annual verbal performance evaluations of the Executive In view of concerns regarding his independence which led to a Directors performance and an evaluation of the Non-Executive significant vote against his election, the Chairman met with major Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors undertake a verbal annual shareholders and proxy voting advisors after the AGM to explain performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the why the Board considers him to be independent and to receive views of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman made clear that Citigroup, whilst one of Persimmons two brokers, are not financial The Chairman has discussed with all Directors their requirements advisors to the Company and have received no remuneration for professional development and training and where appropriate from the Company for more than eight years, and received share this has been provided to Directors.
All Directors have access dealing commission only in the two years before that.
Nigel had to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and not worked on the Companys business over the three years may also seek independent professional advice and training at prior to his appointment last year, itself preceded by Citigroups theCompanys expense, if so required to carry out their duties.
decision to put in place strict procedures which further ensure his independence.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 56 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued They also agreed the base salaries for Executive Directors, the Nomination Committee performance conditions for the annual bonus plan and the fee The members of the Nomination Committee are Nicholas Wrigley and benefits for the Chairman, all in accordance with the current Chairman, Jonathan Davie, Marion Sears, Rachel Kentleton and remuneration policy which was approved by Shareholders at the Nigel Mills.
Marion Sears replaced Richard Pennycook when AGM in April 2014. he resigned on 14 April 2016 and Rachel Kentleton and Nigel Further details of the proposed new remuneration policy and the Mills were appointed on 8 December 2016.
The Committee remuneration paid to each Director serving during 2016, together met twice during 2016 to review the composition of the Board, with the proposed implementation of the policy in 2017 are set out to consider the diversity policy and to consider both Board and in the Remuneration Report on pages 64-85. senior management succession planning.
All members were in attendance at each meeting.
Audit Committee Following their review of the composition of the Board, the Nomination Committee considered that the balance of skills would Composition be enhanced by the appointment of a Non-Executive Director with executive experience at a listed company in a consumer facing The Audit Committee members are Rachel Kentleton Chairman, industry and with extensive financial experience.
The criteria and Jonathan Davie and Marion Sears.
Rachel Kentleton is Chairman requirements for an appointment were agreed by the Committee of the Committee: she is a qualified accountant and has recent and an executive search firm, the Zygos Partnership a member relevant financial experience as Finance Director of PayPoint Plc of the Association of Recruitment Consultants was appointed and former Group Director, Strategy & Implementation at EasyJet.
to prepare a list of candidates for consideration.
Zygos has no Jonathan Davie and Marion Sears also both have recent relevant other connection with the Company.
An extensive search was financial experience: Jonathan is a chartered accountant and undertaken and the Committee reviewed the list of potential Marion has extensive banking and financial experience and is candidates.
A shortlist was agreed and each of the shortlisted a member of the Audit Committee at Fidelity European Values candidates was interviewed.
The Committee subsequently Plc and Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust PLC and was recommended the appointment of Simon Litherland to the a member of Dunelm plcs Audit Committee until September Boardand they appointed him with effect from 3 April 2017.
The Boardhas determined that the current composition of the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to Nigel Mills was appointed during the year and has received a the sector in which the Company operates.
Rachel Kentleton comprehensive induction about the Company which included has experience in consumer facing,  extensive meetings and briefings from Executive Directors, with significant long term capital investment cycles, the Group Company Secretary and Head Office functional Marion Sears has retail experience andJonathanDavie directors, principally on strategy and finance, but including legal  and investment expertise.
issues, information technology and health and safety.
He has also attended a number of sites and met divisional and regional Richard Pennycook was the Chairman of the Audit Committee management teams.
A similar process will be carried out for until 14 April 2016, when he retired as a Non-Executive Director Simon Litherland on his appointment.
of the Company due to time commitments on his appointment as Chairman of Howden Joinery Group Plc.
Marion Sears joined The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the Committee on 14 April 2016, replacing Mark Preston who theExecutive team in light of Nigel Greenaways retirement in also resigned as a Non-Executive Director, again due to time April2016.
They recommended that Dave Jenkinson should commitments following his promotion at the Grosvenor Estate.
bepromoted to Group Managing Director in January 2016, with responsibility for Group businesses and reporting directly to the The Committee met on five occasions during 2016 and all Group Chief Executive.
The Committee also reviewed long term members were in attendance at each meeting.
The Committee succession planning for the Groups Regional Boards and internal regularly meets the external auditor without the presence of the management promotions during the year.
The Committees Chairman also meets the Group Risk Manager without the Companys management Remuneration Committee being present at least twice each year.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for establishing and updating the remuneration policy of the Chairman and Executive Directors.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Jonathan Davie Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, Marion Sears and Nigel Mills.
The Committee met four times during 2016 to discuss, consider and approve the revised Remuneration Policy, which is being put to shareholders for their approval at the forthcoming AGM.
All members attended the meetings.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 57 Audit Committee Key roles and 2016 Activities Audit Committee Key Role 2016 Activities and Priorities Effective Governance of Group Financial reporting Review of Half Year and Annual Report Adequacy of Related Disclosures Review of Half Year and Annual Report Review of Groups Viability Statement Management of Internal controls and risk management systems Assessment of Significant financial issues Review of Groups Principal Risks and Risk Register External Audit Overview of transition of auditor and review of external audit Performance of the Group Risk Management Function Continued Monitoring of the Group Risk Function Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud Review of the Groups current tax status Continued monitoring of risks and the Groups whistleblowing procedures reviewed the financial issues, and considered that the issues Role ofgreatest materiality were: The Audit Committees key roles are to ensure the effective revenue recognition: governance of the Groups financial reporting, the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of the Group risk the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress management function and the management of the Groups including the accuracy of cost recoveries: and systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance the carrying value of the Groups available for sale financial activities.
The Committee also reviews and monitors the assets including shared equity receivables.
performance and independence of the Groups external auditor, the provision of additional services to the Group by the auditor and Further information on these matters is set out below.
oversees the Groups relationship with them.
3 Review of the Groups Principal Risks and Risk Register Committee meetings generally take place prior to but on the same The Audit Committee has conducted regular reviews of the day as Board meetings and the Committee Chairman provides Groups Principal Risks and Risk Register, to ensure that as the Board with a report on the activity of the Committee and the the political and economic environment changes, they are matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of updated accordingly.
This enables the Audit Committee to their work.
ensure that major risks facing the Group are scrutinised and that the appropriate controls are in place.
In particular, the 2016 Priorities and AuditCommittee reviewed: Main Activities the potential impact of economic uncertainty following the The Audit Committees 2016 priorities and main activities are set UKs referendum vote to leave the EU: out below.
the continued implementation of procedures and increased 1 Transition and Review of External Audit resources designed to improve customer care: T he Audit Committee oversaw the transition of the external audit the recruitment and training of staff, given the Groups from KPMG LLP to Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit Committee continued increase in staffing:and ensured that the audit transition plan accurately reflected their cyber risk.
requirements and that the transition was carried out in a timely manner according to the agreed plan.
The Committee has also The other key actions of the Committee during the year were: assessed the effectiveness of the external audit, both of Ernst & full review of liquidity risk and whether the Group can continue Youngs audit in preparation for the 2016 results and of KPMGs to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts: audit in relation to the prior year.
review of the Groups Viability Statement: 2 As sessment of Significant Financial Issues review of Half Year and Final Results: and T he Audit Committee is required to review and assess the significant financial issues facing the Group and the review of the Groups current tax status.
determination of the key risks of misstatement of the Groups financial statements.
During the year, the Audit Committee Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 58 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued Revenue recognition External audit The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal controls As previously reported, the Board agreed that it would re-tender exercised over the key processes employed by the Group to the Group audit during 2015 and subsequently recommended ensure the accuracy of revenue recognition.
Revenue for the year to shareholders that Ernst & Young LLP be appointed as auditor.
Shareholders approved the appointment of Ernst & Young at the Annual General Meeting and they became the Companys auditor on 14 April 2016.
Upon appointment Ernst & Young produced a Carrying value of land and work detailed transition plan, which has been successfully completed in in progress including the accuracy the year.
of cost recoveries Ernst and Young also prepared a detailed audit plan identifying The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal controls their assessment of the key risks for audit consideration in 2016. exercised over the key processes employed by the Group in the The significant risks identified were revenue recognition, the acquisition of new land and the investment in site development carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress including activities.
The Committee receives regular reporting on the accuracy of cost recoveries and the carrying value of the managements adherence to the Groups policies and procedures Groups shared equity receivables.
in both of these critically important areas of the business.
Other areas of audit focus included testing of key controls, The carrying value of the Groups land totalled 1,946.4m at anassessment of the adequacy of closed site provisions 31 December 2016, and the carrying value of work in progress held, valuation of the Groups defined benefit pension onsite totalled 617.2m.
schemeobligations, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, Similarly, the Committee ensures the approach adopted by accuracy of current tax accrual and deferred tax balances.
management in recovering the cost of both land and work In addition, there was a review to confirm that the Group should in progress remains in line with established Group policies properly be considered as a going concern and a review of and procedures through regular risk monitoring reports.
The Committee has again reviewed managements assessment of The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external the net realisable value of the Groups land and work in progress audit process annually with the auditor and the Companys held at 31 December 2016.
The Committee concluded that management.
The Committee regularly holds private meetings the approach adopted by management supported the asset with the external auditor without management present.
Matters discussed include the auditors assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and Carrying value of shared openness of interactions with management and confirmation equity receivables that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of internal controls exercised over the key processes that are employed by the The Committee ensures that the auditor has exercised due Group in managing the second charge loans remaining due to professional scepticism.
The Committee has reviewed and is the Group under shared equity contracts entered into with some satisfied with the performance of Ernst & Young LLP.
These are held as receivables and reported as to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company will available for sale financial assets on the Groups balance sheet.
be made at the Companys AGM to be held on 27 April 2017.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory At 31 December 2016 the carrying value of these receivables Audit Services Order 2014. was 148.7m.
The Committee has reviewed the assumptions adopted by management in support of the carrying value of these The Audit Committee formulates and oversees the Companys receivables and concluded they are appropriate.
The Committee policy on monitoring external auditor objectivity and independence monitors the ongoing performance of these receivables with in relation to non-audit services.
The auditor is excluded from respect to redemptions and delinquency and are satisfied that undertaking a range of work on behalf of the Group to ensure that management have adopted appropriate assumptions in this the nature of non-audit services performed or fee income earned regardin support ofthe carrying value of these assets.
relative to the audit fees do not compromise and are not seen to compromise the auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The Committee considers that the Group managements The auditor is therefore not allowed to carry out appraisal or application of its accounting policies has resulted in a carrying valuation services, management functions and litigation support, value which appropriately reflects the inherent risks of recoverability actuarial services, legal or remuneration services on behalf of the of these shared equity receivables.
From time to time non-audit services are put out to tender to a number of suitable firms.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 59 Details of the audit fee paid to Ernst & Young LLP are on page 104.
The Group Risk Department has facilitated an update to the Group There were no non-audit fees paid to Ernst & Young in 2016. risk register during the year to reflect changes to the profile of risks facing the Group.
The results of this process have been reported At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a risk focused whether the 2016 Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, programme of work designed to improve business processes and balanced and understandable and whether it provided the increase internal control effectiveness to mitigate risk.
The updated necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Companys Group risk register has been approved by both Risk and Audit position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committees and by the Board.
The principal risks faced by the Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report Group set out on page 29 have been reviewed to ensure that they isfair, balanced and understandable.
reflect the changes in the Groups risk profile.
Overall the risks faced by the Group have remained the same as the prior year, Internal control and risk management with the addition of a specific risk on the uncertainties following the UKs vote to leave the European Union.
Effective risk management is critical to the achievement of our objectives and the long term sustainable growth of our business.
The Risk Committee met six times during 2016, ensuring there has The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of been an ongoing robust process for the identification, evaluation internal control and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role and management of the significant risks that are faced by the of management to implement the Boards policies on risk control Group.
The key features of reviewing the effectiveness of the through the design and operation of appropriate internal control system of internal control include the following: systems.
All employees have some responsibility for internal review of reports produced by the Group Risk Department on controlas part of their responsibility for achieving objectives.
internal control and management of risk: The Risk Committee oversees the Boards processes with reviewing the reports from the Corporate Responsibility regard to risk and ensures the Boards policies on risk control are Committee with particular reference to reputational, implemented through the design and operation of appropriate environmental, sustainability and social risks facing the Group: internal control systems and procedures.
Specifically, this includes determining appropriate control procedures and the review of the review of representations on risk and control from all Managing effectiveness of internal control.
Directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control within their operating businesses: The members of the Risk Committee during 2016 were JeffFairburn Chairman, Rachel Kentleton, Mike Killoran, review of representations on risk and control from both Group NigelGreenaway and Dave Jenkinson.
Nigel Greenaway retired and divisional management: from the Committee following the AGM on 14 April 2016.
The Risk assessment of the security around IT infrastructure and Committee is supported by the Group Risk Manager and Group customer information: and Risk function.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit Committee, which oversees the Risk Committees activities.
monitoring of whistleblowing reports or other significant control issues or incidents reported.
The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process Following review by the Risk Committee, where minor weaknesses and in relation to the process of preparing consolidated accounts.
in internal controls were identified, action has been taken to The Company has complied with the Governance Code provisions improve and strengthen procedures as part of the regular fideon internal control, having continued to operate procedures briefing of senior management by the Group Risk Department on consistent with the Guidance on Risk Management Reporting, conclusion of their work.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting Members of the Risk Committee completed the following tasks, issued by the FRC in September 2014 throughout the year.
which are essential parts of the Groups risk control framework: Senior management from the Finance Department monitor maintaining continuous detailed involvement in monitoring the Groups financial management and reporting systems and and controlling work in progress and controls over land continually assess the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups acquisition assessment: accounting procedures.
Senior management from the Finance and Company Secretarial Departments review financial reports regular site visits and discussions with site based personnel: and trading updates with appropriate consultation with the Groups ongoing review of Group performance in comparison to external advisors, ensuring that such reports and statements operational forecasts and financial budgets: and are accurate, complete and comply with all relevant legislation and regulations.
Each operating business and Group function is involvement in each operating business board discussions, required to report to the Group to ensure that all financial reporting particularly operational board meetings where all aspects of is accurate and that all matters which may be material to the Group operation and performance were analysed.
as a whole have been reported to the Board.
Senior management reports its findings to the Audit Committee and through that Committee to the Board.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 60 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued On completion of these processes the Risk Committee formally The Company issues regular trading statements to the London considered the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups Stock Exchange, as well as the publication of annual and half system of internal control.
This review covers all material controls yearly financial results.
The Company provides Shareholders including financial, operational and compliance controls, as well with access to detailed presentations of results at its analyst as the Groups risk management system.
There were no material presentations.
A live webcast of the event is available to the market, matters identified from the review.
The review for 2016 has been a recording of which can be viewed on the Companys website.
completed and approved by the Risk and Audit Committees and by the Board.
A detailed Group Risk Department programme Significant shareholdings of work for 2017 has also been approved by the Risk and As at 31 December 2016 and as at 24 February 2017, the Audit Committees.
Company had been notified under the Financial Conduct The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5 rather than eliminate risk, in order to achieve business objectives.
ofthefollowing interests in the voting rights of the Company: However, the system can only provide reasonable assurances As at 31 December 2016 As at 24 February 2017 and does not provide absolute assurance against material % of % of misstatement or loss.
total total Number of voting Number of voting Nature of 1 1 Name voting rights rights voting rights rights holding Terms of reference BlackRock Inc 16,718,253 5.43 16,718,253 5.43 Indirect Terms of reference for the Board Committees are available on the Direct Companys website www.
com or and from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
14,923,488 4.97 14,923,488 4.97 indirect 1 Represents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the Shareholder relations respective shareholder in accordance with D. T. R. 5.1.
The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 relations with the Companys Shareholders as they provide good perspectives on corporate governance matters and strategy.
This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64-85, provides a description Jeff Fairburn and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining of how the main principles of the Governance Code have been appropriate communications with institutional investors and applied within the Company during 2016. analysts, advised by the Groups broker Merrill Lynch, together with the financial PR consultants, Citigate Dewe Rogerson.
The Company complied with the Governance Code throughout They hold scheduled meetings with major Shareholders regularly.
2016 and continues to review its governance procedures to Jonathan Davie has responsibility for consulting with Shareholders maintain proper control and accountability.
The Governance and institutions on matters relating toremuneration policy.
Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council, telephone He consulted with major shareholders and proxy voting advisors 0207492 2300 or online atwww.
earlier this year on the proposed new Remuneration Policy.
Directors Report other disclosures The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for consultation with major Shareholders.
During the summer of Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company of 2016 the Chairman met with major shareholders to discuss the the Persimmon Group of companies the Group and is a governance of the Company and in particular the independence public company listed in the UK and traded on the London of Nigel Mills who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on Stock Exchange.
The Groups main trading companies are Persimmon Homes The Company monitors the constituents of its share register to Limited and Charles Church Developments Limited.
The Group ensure that its investor relations communications are appropriately trades under the brand names of Persimmon Homes, Charles coordinated with its shareholder base.
The Board is provided Church, Westbury Partnerships and Space4.
with reports produced by equity analysts and the results of The subsidiary undertakings which principally affect the profits consultations are reported to the Board as a whole.
In addition, and assets of the Group are listed in note 31 to the Financial the Executive Directors report on feedback received following Statements.
A complete list of the Companys subsidiaries their presentations to or meetings with Shareholders and analysts.
and residents management companies under its control are All Directors attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and containedon pages 130-139. are available to answer questions at the meeting or privately.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 61 The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors Strategic Report and their connected persons in the shares of the Company at The management report for the purposes of the Disclosure 31 December 2016 and as at the date of this report are disclosed Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.
R is included in the in the Remuneration Report on page 81.
Details of the interests of Strategic Report on pages 2-49.
A description of the Groups the Executive Directors in share options and awards of shares can future prospects, research and development, the principal risks be found on page 80 within the same report.
and uncertainties facing the business are contained within the Strategic Report.
Details of the financial risk management Appointment and replacement of Directors objectives andpolicies of the Group and associated risk exposure are given in note 21 of the Financial Statements.
The Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the Results and return of cash Board of Directors holds office until the next following AGM and is The Groups revenue for 2016 was 3,136.8m and its consolidated then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Company may profit before taxation was 774.8m.
by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of their term of office.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by Directors subject to In accordance with the Governance Code the Board has statute.
The Directors may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate determined that all Directors will be subject to annual re-election dividend whenever the financial position of the Company, in the by Shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association opinion of the Directors, justifies its payment.
Articles in any event provide that at each AGM at least one third of the Directors shall retire from office and shall be eligible for All dividend and interest shall be paid subject to any lien of the reappointment and therefore each Director shall retire from office Company to those members whose names are on the register and shall be eligible for reappointment at the AGM held in the third of members on the record date, notwithstanding any subsequent year following their last re-appointment.
In accordance with the transfer or transmission of shares.
Articles and the Governance Code, a Non-Executive Director who As set out in the Chairmans Statement an interim dividend of has been in office for more than nine years consecutively shall 25pence per ordinary share will be paid on 31 March 2017 to retire at each AGM and shall be eligible for reappointment.
shareholders on the register at 6.00pm on 10 March 2017 under the Companys Capital Return Plan.
In addition, a further interim Powers of the Directors dividend of 110pence per ordinary share will be paid on 3 July 2017 to shareholders on the register at 6.00 pm on 16 June 2017 The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors 2016: return of cash of 110pence per share.
who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given in general meetings.
In particular, the Directors may exercise all the Going concern powers of the Company to borrow money, issue and buy back After completing a full review, the Directors have satisfied shares with the authority of Shareholders, appoint and remove themselves that the going concern basis for the preparation of the Directors and recommend and declare dividends.
accounts continues to be appropriate and there are no material uncertainties to the Companys ability to do so over a period of Capital structure 12 months.
The following description summarises certain provisions of the Further details are provided in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Articles adopted by special resolution passed on 19 March 2015 and the Companies Act 2006.
This is only a summary and the Directors and Directors interests relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
A copy of the Articles The current Directors of the Company and their biographical details may be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary at the are shown on pages 52 and 53.
Simon Litherland, whose details registered office.
are also set out on those pages, will be appointed on 3 April2017.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are given in Amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made by the Remuneration Report on page 72.
All of the Directors served way of special resolution in accordance with the provisions of the for the whole of the year, with the exception of Nigel Mills who Companies Act 2006. was appointed to the Board on 4 April 2016.
In addition, Nigel Greenaway, Richard Pennycook and Mark Preston were Directors of the Company until Nigel retired and Richard and Mark resigned from the Board, all on 14 April 2016.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 62 Corporate governance statement and Directors Report continued by more than one member and has been given conflicting Share capital instructions, or instructions to vote for or against one member and The Company has one class of share in issue, being ordinary discretion by another, the proxy has one vote for and one vote shares with a nominal value of 10pence each, which carry no against a resolution.
On a vote on a poll, each member present in right to fixed income.
During 2016 1,799,604 ordinary shares person or by proxy or by duly authorised representative has one were issued with a nominal value of 179,960.40 to employees vote for each share held by the member.
exercising share options for cash consideration of 1,281,588.35.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29 of the At 24 February 2017 the issued share capital of the Company Financial Statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon Employment was 308,578,359 ordinary shares with a nominal value of Benefit Trust may vote or abstain on Shareholder resolutions as it 30,857,835.90.
Further details are provided in note 23 to the sees fit.
Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other rights Transfer of shares or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, or voting or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the ordinary resolution determine or failing such determination as the Company.
Any member may transfer their shares in writing in any Directors may decide, subject to the provisions of the Companies usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Act 2006 and other shareholders rights.
There are no securities Directors and permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the UK carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer The Directors may allot, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of shares or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
of shares in the Company to such persons including the Directors themselves at such times and on such terms as the Directors Qualifying third party indemnity may think proper, subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and shareholders rights.
At the AGM on 14 April 2016 provisions and qualifying pension scheme Shareholders gave Directors authority to allot ordinary shares indemnity provisions up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,254,317, representing The Company has not issued any qualifying third party indemnity approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital as provision or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision.
at 7 March 2016 and also in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 20,508,634, representing approximately two Change of control provisions thirds of the issued share capital of the Company as at 7 March One significant agreement contains provisions entitling 2016.
Shareholders also gave Directors authority to disapply counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event pre-emption rights on the issues of shares up to 10% of the issued of a change of control of the Company.
Under the 300m credit share capital, being an aggregate nominal amount of 3,076,295. facility for Persimmon Plc dated 1 April 2011 as amended These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM on disclosed in note 21 of the Financial Statements, allamounts 27 April 2017.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be put become due and payable under the terms of the facility ifany toShareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
person or group of persons acting in concert gains control ofthe Company.
Votes of members Control has the same meaning as section 450 of the Corporation All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and there are no Tax Act 2010 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may be exercised in person, in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Change of control is by proxy, or in relation to corporate members by a corporate deemed to occur if at any time any person, or group of persons representative.
The deadline for delivering either written or acting in concert, acquires control of the Company.
electronic proxy forms is not less than 48 hours before the time for The Company does not have agreements with any employee, holding the meeting.
To attend and vote at a meeting a shareholder including Directors, that would provide compensation for loss must be entered on the register of members at a timethat is not of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, calculated provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options using business days only.
and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest On a vote on a show of hands, each member being an individual ona takeover.
present in person or a duly authorised representative of a corporation has one vote.
Each proxy present in person who has Emissions been appointed by one member entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by more than one The Companys greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the member and has been given the same voting instructions by those Strategic Report on page 46. members, the proxy has one vote.
If the proxy has been appointed Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 63 Employee involvement Annual General Meeting The Group places considerable value on the involvement of The AGM will commence at 12 noon on Thursday 27 April 2017 at its employees and has continued to keep them informed on York Racecourse, Knavesmire Road, York YO23 1EX.
The Notice matters affecting them as employees and on various financial of Meeting and an explanation of the ordinary and special business and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
are given in the AGM circular, which is available on the Companys The Group regularly updates its employment policies and all website and which has been sent to shareholders.
employees have been issued with a staff handbook to keep them up to date with information relating to their employment.
Each of Disclosure of information to auditors the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report and consults employees as appropriate.
Internal Group magazines confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant are published quarterly and distributed to all employees to ensure audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and they are kept well informed of the Groups operations.
In addition, that each Director has taken all steps he ought to have taken information concerning the financial performance of the Group is as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant sent to each operating business for circulation.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is The Company makes various benefit schemes available to aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should employees, including a savings-related share option scheme which be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 encourages the awareness and involvement of employees in the oftheCompanies Act 2006.
All permanent employees are encouraged to participate.
Directors responsibility The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Equal opportunities and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and The Group policy is to have equal opportunities for training, regulations.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and career development and promotion for all employees without Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable discrimination and to apply fair and equitable policies which and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to seek to promote entry into and progression within the Group.
assess the Companys position and performance, business model Appointments are determined solely by application of job and strategy.
The Board reached this conclusion after receiving criteria, personal ability and competency regardless of race, advicefrom the Audit Committee.
Further details are provided colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, gender, sexual onpage 59. orientation, political beliefs, marital or civil partnership status, age, By order of the Board pregnancy or maternity or disability.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, with appropriate regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person concerned.
In the Tracy Davison event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made Company Secretary to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, that 24 February 2017 appropriate training is arranged and any reasonable adjustments Persimmon Plc Company registration number 1818486 are made to their working environment.
It is the Groups policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Group has achieved accreditation for its approach to equality and diversity.
Acquisition of own shares At the AGM held on 14 April 2016 Shareholders granted the Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of 30,762,952 of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased to date under this authority and therefore at 31 December 2016 the authority remained outstanding.
This authority expires on 27 April 2017 and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
At 31 December 2016 the Company held no shares in treasury.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
