52 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Nicholas Wrigley Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran ACA Chairman age 61 Group Chief Executive age 50 Group Finance Director age 55 Date of appointment Appointed to the Board Date of appointment 1 June 2009 Date of appointment 4 January 1999 on 1 February 2006 and as Chairman of the Committee membership Chairman of the Committee membership Member of the Board on 21 April 2011.
Committee membership Chairman of the Experience Jeff Fairburn has been Group Experience Mike Killoran joined the Company Nomination Committee and member of the Chief Executive since April 2013.
A chartered accountant by profession, Remuneration Committee.
the Group in 1989 and became North East Mike worked in manufacturing, distribution and Experience Nicholas Wrigley is an Executive Managing Director in 2000.
He was promoted retail sectors before joining the Group.
He took Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
He has to North Division Chief Executive in 2006 and over his present role in April 1999. over 30 years mergers and acquisitions subsequently to Group Managing Director Skills Mike has extensive financial and experience at Rothschild and is a qualified in 2012. operational skills and over 20 years experience accountant.
He was also Senior Steward of Skills Jeff has 32 years experience in the and knowledge of both the industry and our theJockey Club from 2009 to 2014. construction industry, 28 of which have been business.
These skills enable Mike to make a Skills Nicholas leadership style encourages in the housebuilding sector.
He has an in depth strong contribution to strategy development.
open and honest debate in the spirit of knowledge of Persimmon having started as constructive challenge, which enables effective a quantity surveyor in our Yorkshire business.
decision making by the Board in all areas of This, together with his progressive style strategy, responsibility and governance.
and strong leadership skills, enables him to effectively direct and manage the delivery of our strategy.
Rachel Kentleton Nigel Mills Simon Litherland Non-Executive Director age 48 Non-Executive Director age 61 Non-Executive Director age 52 Date of appointment 24 June 2015 Date of appointment 4 April 2016 Date of appointment Simon will be appointed to the Board on 3 April 2017.
Committee membership Chairman of the Committee membership Member of the Audit Committee and member of the Risk and Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Committee membership Simon will become Nomination Committees.
a member of the Audit, Nomination and Experience Nigel Mills is a Senior Advisor at Remuneration Committees on his appointment.
Experience Rachel Kentleton, a qualified Citigroup Global Markets and was previously accountant, is the Finance Director at PayPoint Chairman of Corporate Broking at Citi between Experience Simon Litherland is the Chief plc.
Prior to joining PayPoint in January 2005-2015 and Chief Executive at Hoare Executive of Britvic plc.
He is a qualified 2017 Rachel was Group Director, Strategy & Govett between 1995-2005.
He has extensive accountant and has over 25 years experience Implementation at EasyJet.
She has previously experience in advising some of the UKs in finance and leadership roles within the drinks held investor relations and finance roles at largest companies.
Prior to Unilever, Natwest, Diageo and SABMiller.
joining Britvic in 2011 Simon worked for global Skills Nigel has sound commercial judgement drinks manufacturer Diageo plc, spending Skills Rachels strategic, investor relations drawing on a 30 year career advising quoted 20 years running several of the companys and financial experience adds to the companies.
He has broad experience of international business units, ultimately balance of skills and experience of our Nonfinancial markets, shareholder attitudes, becoming Managing Director of Diageo Executive Directors and greatly benefits the corporate governance and compliance Great Britain.
implementation of the Companys strategy which enable him to provide sound advice andthe development of the business.
Skills Simon is an accomplished Executive with proven finance, leadership and business skills in a consumer facing industry.
His strong understanding of branding and customer propositions adds to the skillset of the Board and will prove invaluable to the development and implementation of the Companys strategy.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 53 Dave Jenkinson Jonathan Davie Marion Sears Group Managing Director age 49 Senior Independent Director age 70 Non-Executive Director age 54 Date of appointment 13 December 2013 Date of appointment 1 January 2010 Date of appointment 8 January 2013 Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Chairman of the Committee membership Chairman of Risk Committee.
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee theAudit and Nomination Committees.
and a member of the Audit, Nomination Experience Dave Jenkinson joined the Group andRemuneration Committees.
He was appointed Managing Director Experience Jonathan Davie, a chartered of the North East operating business in 2005 accountant, is Non-Executive Chairman of Experience Marion Sears is a Non-Executive and was promoted to Regional Managing First Avenue Partners LLP and of technology Director of Dunelm Group Plc and of investment Director in 2007 and to North Division Chief company Econiq Limited.
He is also a Noncompany WA Capital Limited.
She is also Executive in January 2013.
He was promoted Executive Director of investment trusts Hansa a Non-Executive Director of investment toGroup Managing Director on 7 January 2016.
Trust Plc and Gabelli Value Plus Trust PLC.
trusts Fidelity European Values Plc and Jonathans previous roles include NonAberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust PLC.
Skills Dave has extensive experience of Executive Chairman of IG Group Holdings Plc, Marion previously held executive positions at the housebuilding industry.
He has an Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse, CEO of BZW Glaxo, UBS, Baring Brothers and JP Morgan.
in-depth knowledge of Persimmon, having Global Equities and Non-Executive Director of worked for the Group for almost 20 years.
Skills Marion has extensive retail industry Credit Suisse UK Private Bank.
He has particular strengths in land buying and knowledge and customer understanding development and is a qualified town planner.
Skills Jonathans experience has given together with an all-round view of the him sound judgement and the ability to consumer markets.
Her banking skills, constructively challenge the Executive financial background and current involvement Directors.
He has extensive experience of in the investment industry enable her to thefinancial markets and capital raising.
provide sound advice and judgement on the implementation of the Companys strategy.
TOGETHER THE BALANCE OF SKILLS, EXPERIENCE AND PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS RESULT IN A DIVERSITY OF VIEWS AND OPINIONS.
Nicholas Wrigley Chairman Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
