Hamish Buchan and Gordon Neilly have served for more than nine years.
However, the Board subscribes to Personal Assets is a self-managed investment trust run by the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving its Board, which takes all major decisions collectively.
Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an While Robin Angus has executive duties, all of the Direcindependent majority, and does not consider that a Directors regard themselves and one another as equal in the dutors length of tenure reduces his ability to act independties and responsibilities they owe to shareholders and ently.
accordingly work together as a unitary Board within which the Chairman who is elected by the Directors from among Directors fees are determined within the limits set out in their own number acts as primus inter pares.
the Companys Articles of Association.
The approval of shareholders in a General Meeting is required to change The Directors are elected by the shareholders and regard this limit.
corporate governance and accountability to shareholders as fundamental.
They therefore place considerable emDate of Due date for phasis on running the Company in the way they believe to Director Appointment Re-election be best suited to the successful management of an investHamish Buchan ment trust on behalf of its shareholders.
Chairman 5 July 2001 AGM 2016 Arrangements appropriate to an investment trust in reRobin Angus spect of corporate governance have been made by the Executive Director 18 May 1984 AGM 2016 Board.
The Board has considered the principles and recGordon Neilly 30 April 1997 AGM 2016 ommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate GoverStuart Paul 16 July 2009 AGM 2016 finance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Frank Rushbrook 16 July 2009 AGM 2016 Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies Any new Directors appointed during the year must stand the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the for re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK following their appointment.
All executive and non-execuCorporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Retive Directors retire annually and, where appropriate, stand porting Council the UK Code, as well as setting out for re-election.
Other than for Robin Angus there is no noadditional principles and recommendations which are of tice period and no provision for compensation on early terspecific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can mination of appointment.
be obtained from the AICs website at www.
Only Robin Angus has a contract of service with the ComThe Board considers that reporting against the principles pany.
Details of this service contract, his remuneration, and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference and fees paid to other Directors during the year are shown to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will in the Directors Remuneration Report.
provide better information to shareholders than if it had Individual Directors may, after having obtained the conadopted the UK Code.
sent of any other Director, seek independent professional COMPLIANCE advice at the Companys expense on any matter that concerns the furtherance of their duties.
Details of the DirecThe Company has complied throughout the year, and contors authority in relation to the issue and buying back by tinues to comply, with the recommendations of the AIC the Company of its shares can be found in the Directors Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except Report.
Similarly, details of those persons with significant as disclosed below.
holdings in the Company are set out in the Directors ReThe Board does not consider it appropriate for a Senior port.
Independent Director to be appointed as recommended by provision A.
4.1 of the UK Code, as it operates as a uniCONFLICTS OF INTEREST tary Board.
The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director of the The Board does not consider it appropriate for Directors Company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might to be appointed for a specific term as recommended by have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the inprinciple 4 of the AIC Code and provision B.
2.3 of the UK terests of the Company.
Each Director submits a list of poCode.
However, the Companys practice since 2007 has tential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other Directors been that each Director will retire annually and, if approconsider these and recommend whether or not each popriate, stand for re-election.
tential conflict should be authorised.
No situation arose during the year whereby an interest of a Director conflicted The Board does not consider it appropriate for an external with the interests of the Company.
evaluation of the Board to be carried out as recommended by provision B.
6.2 of the Code as it believes the current MEETINGS evaluation process to be objective and rigorous.
The During the year there were five Board meetings, each of Board, which is a unitary Board and meets formally or inwhich was attended by all of the Directors.
There were formally at least once a month, is also of the view that its three Audit Committee meetings, two Remuneration Comcomposition is suitably diverse and effective.
mittee meetings and a Nomination Committee meeting held during the year.
All of these meetings were attended DIRECTORS by all of the respective committee members except Stuart All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be inPaul, who attended one Remuneration Committee meetdependent in character and judgement and, in the opinion ing and could not attend the Nomination Committee of the Board, there are no relationships or conflicts of inmeeting.
terest which are likely to affect the judgement of any DiPage 26 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Under the terms of the contracts with the AIFM and the shares: e matters relating to shareholder communication: Investment Adviser, the following matters have been exf hedging: g investment in any new asset class: h and pressly reserved to the Board: a the level and form of liqsuch other matters as the Board may reasonably intimate uidity within the portfolio: b asset allocation within the from time to time.
However, the Board is required to engage portfolio: c the Companys gearing levels: d matters rein active dialogue with the Investment Adviser in relation to lating to the buying back and issuance of the Companys the matters referred to at items a, b, e, and f above.
The following diagram highlights various matters considered by the Board during the past year: May June Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Board and Consider Annual Semi-Annual Consider Semi-Annual Internal Committee 1st Interim General Investment 3rd Interim Investment Controls Evaluation Dividend Meeting Report Dividend Report Review Approval Consider Approval Annual Review Review Strategy of the 2nd Interim of the Interim of Risk of Directors Session Annual Report Dividend Report Registers Fees Review Consider Appointment 4th Interim of Investment Dividend Adviser Corporate Governance Review VOTING POLICY New Directors appointed to the Board are given an induction meeting with the Executive Office and are proThe Investment Adviser is to exercise all votes exercisable vided with all relevant information regarding the Company by the Company in relation to the Companys investments and their duties as a Director.
Thereafter, regular briefings in favour of resolutions proposed by the Boards of investee are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that companies, save where the Board instructs otherwise.
could affect the Company and the Directors.
Professional Board decisions regarding voting on corporate resolutions advisers report from time to time and Directors will, if necof companies in which the Company invests are a matter essary, attend seminars covering relevant issues and develfor the whole Board.
All resolutions on which the Comopments.
pany is entitled to vote are monitored and, although normally the Company would vote in favour of all Board PERFORMANCE EVALUATION resolutions, any contentious matters are referred to the DiDuring the year the performance of the Board, the Audit rectors by e-mail for comment.
Any Director disagreeing Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remunerathat the Company should cast an affirmative vote informs tion Committee and individual Directors was evaluated the Company Secretary and requests that his view be conthrough a discussion based assessment process led by the sidered by a sub-committee of the Board consisting of any Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was evalutwo Directors.
The sub-committee then considers the matated by the other Directors.
The Board concluded that the ter and informs the Director of its conclusion.
Should the Chairman and each Director contributed effectively and Director disagree with the sub-committees conclusion, a demonstrated commitment to his role.
The Board also confull Board meeting is called to consider the matter.
cluded that the performance of the Board as a whole and COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS its committees was effective.
The UK Code requires the Company to engage an external facilitator for the Board The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and places evaluation every three years.
However, the Board has considerable importance on communications with them.
elected not to comply with this requirement as disclosed The Investment Adviser reports back to the Board on on page 26. meetings with shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company and preBy Order of the Board sentations held in London provide a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues Steven K Davidson with the Board.
Secretary 10 St Colme Street NOMINATION COMMITTEE Edinburgh EH3 6AA The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and comprising Mr Buchan, Stuart Paul and Frank Rush- 2 June 2016 brook, considers the appointment of new Directors.
Diversity, including gender, is considered when seeking potential candidates.
The Nomination Committee meets at least annually.
