REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROLS The Audit Committee, chaired by Stuart Paul and comprisThe Board is responsible for the Companys system of ining Mr Paul, Gordon Neilly and Frank Rushbrook, meets ternal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The at least twice yearly to coincide with the annual and interim Board has therefore established an ongoing process fidereporting cycle.
The principal rle of the Audit Committee is signed to meet the particular needs of the Company in to review the annual and interim financial statements, the managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with Accounting Policies applied therein and to ensure complithe internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reance with financial and regulatory reporting requirements.
The process relies principally on a riskThe Audit Committee discusses and agrees the scope of the based system of internal control whereby a test matrix is audit plan for the year ahead and the Auditors Report on created that identifies the key functions carried out by the their findings at the conclusion of the audit.
The terms of refCompany and other service providers, the individual acerence of the Audit Committee clearly define the Committivities undertaken within those functions, the risks assotees responsibilities.
These terms are reviewed annually and ciated with each activity and the controls employed to are available for inspection on the Companys website.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Board and includes considerThe Audit Committee also reviews the system of internal ation of internal control reports issued by the Investment controls, the terms of appointment of the Auditors includAdviser and other service providers.
ing their remuneration, the objectivity of the Auditors and the terms under which they are appointed to perform nonSuch review procedures have been in place throughout the audit services.
The Audit Committee also received a report financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual from the Auditors identifying to its satisfaction how their inReport and Accounts, and the Board is satisfied with their dependence and objectivity is maintained when providing effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage, these non-audit services.
Fees for these services amounted to rather than eliminate, risk and, by their nature, can pro- 8,500 for the year ended 30 April 2016 2015: 9,000.
The vide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against maBoard considers that the provision of such services at this terial misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the level is cost effective and does not impair the independence Board reviews the Companys activities since the previous of Ernst & Young LLP EY.
Board Meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved inThe Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the vestment guidelines and, if necessary, the Board approves audit, the quality of the team and advice received from changes to the guidelines.
them through reviewing interaction with the Auditors, reports received from them and discussion with managePersonal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited ment.
The Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with acts as the Companys AIFM for the purposes of the the effectiveness of the work provided by EY and that EY AIFM Directive and provides secretarial and administraremain objective and independent.
tive services to the Company.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considThe Company does not have an internal audit function as ered whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were the Audit Committee believes that the Companys straightfair, balanced and understandable and whether they proforward structure and small number of employees do not vided the necessary information for shareholders to assess warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the Committhe Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS understandable.
The Audit Committee reached this conThe significant issue considered by the Audit Committee clusion based on a detailed review of the financial stateduring the year in relation to the financial statements of ments and subsequent discussion on whether the accounts the Group was the existence and valuation of investments.
are fair, balanced and understandable by all members of The AIFM regularly reconciles the portfolio holdings to the Committee.
confirmations from the Companys custodian and carries out testing of the prices obtained from the independent During the year, a review of EYs 2015 audit of the Compricing source.
Based on confirmation from the AIFM that pany was completed by the Audit Quality Review team of these procedures have operated correctly at 30 April 2016 the FRC.
In relation to the matters that fell within the and based on conversations with and written reporting scope of review, the FRC concluded that the audit work from the Depositary, the Committee is satisfied that there was of a good standard.
is no material misstatement in the context of the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole.
AUDIT TENDER EU regulation requires a change of Auditors by 2020 and Stuart W Paul the Boards intention is to put the audit out for tender at Director the next Audit Partner rotation point, after the 30 April 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are approved.
2 June 2016 EY were appointed at the Companys launch in 1983.
The Audit Engagement Partner rotates every five years in accordance with ethical guidelines and 2015 is the third year for the current partner.
