Executive Management Team The Board is supported by a highly experienced management team.
Operational day-to-day matters are delegated to the Group Chief Executive Officer together with the rest of the Executive Management Team.
Ian Kellett Mark Adams Sally Hopson MBE Peter Pritchard Louise Stonier Group Chief Executive Officer Interim Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer of Retail Group Company Secretary of Services and Legal Director Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home 2006 2016 2008 2011 2004 Biography Biography Biography Biography Biography Ian joined Pets at Home as Chief Financial Officer in Mark joined Pets at Home in March 2016 as Interim Sally joined Pets at Home in 2008 as the Customer, Peter joined Pets at Home in January 2011 as Louise joined Pets at Home in 2004 as Head of April 2006, was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer.
People and Development Director and became Commercial Director and moved to the role of Legal and Company Secretary and was promoted of the Retail Division in June 2015 and moved to Chief Executive Officer of Services in June 2015.
Chief Executive Officer of Retail in March 2016. to Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Mark is a graduate Chartered Accountant with the role of Group Chief Executive Officer in April 2016. in 2008.
Louise is also the Chair and Trustee of the over 20 years' experience operating at a senior level Sally joined Pets at Home in December 2008 from Peter has worked in retail for 25 years in various charity, Support Adoption For Pets.
During his ten years at Pets at Home, Ian was across a number of different sectors with a focus Asda where she held a number of senior roles over senior operational and commercial roles.
Previous involved in the sale of the business to KKR in on consumer facing businesses.
After graduating from the School of companies include Asda, Sainsburys, Iceland, Louise graduated from Nottingham University with 2010, the acquisition of Vets4Pets in 2013 and includes CFO roles at Cognita Schools, easyJet plc, Oriental and African Studies at the University of Marks and Spencer and Wilkinson Hardware an LLB Hons and joined CMS Cameron McKenna the IPO of the Group in 2014.
As well as focusing Alpha Airports Group plc and STA Travel Group.
London with a degree in Middle Eastern History, Stores.
Peter has a Masters Degree in Business as a trainee solicitor.
After qualifying as a Corporate primarily on his role as CFO and more recently as Sally joined the graduate scheme at Habitat and Administration from Stirling University.
solicitor in 1999, Louise moved to DLA Piper Over recent years, Mark has been keen to use Chief Executive Officer of Retail Division, Ian has began a long and enjoyable career in retailing.
LLP and as an associate in the Corporate Team, his skills and experience in the charitable sector.
Peter is a Trustee of Community Integrated Care, previously held responsibility for distribution and acted on a number of corporate finance and Sally is also a Non-Executive Director for the one of the UKs largest health and social care He currently serves as a board member of logistics, and the strategic development of the M&A transactions.
Retail Trust and for Jardiland, a French garden charities.
They work in the community delivering Development Media International, a UK-based business across both Merchandise and Services.
A particular interest in diversity led life enhancing support to people with learning non-profit organisation that specialises in running In addition, Ian has been a member of the Vet to a four year period as a commissioner on The difficulties, mental health concerns, autism, evidence-based media campaigns to change Group Board for the last ten years.
Women in Work Commission and the Learning age related needs and dementia.
behaviours and improve lives in developing countries.
Previous to his time at Pets at Home, Ian was and Skills Council which was recognised in an Finance Director of Staples retail business in MBE awarded in 2006. the UK between 20042006 and Deputy Finance Director of JD Wetherspoon plc between 19992004.
Pets Pets Pets Pets Pets at Home Group Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Ian Kellett Mark Adams Sally Hopson MBE Peter Pritchard Louise Stonier Group Chief Executive Officer Interim Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer of Retail Group Company Secretary of Services and Legal Director Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home 2006 2016 2008 2011 2004 Biography Biography Biography Biography Biography Ian joined Pets at Home as Chief Financial Officer in Mark joined Pets at Home in March 2016 as Interim Sally joined Pets at Home in 2008 as the Customer, Peter joined Pets at Home in January 2011 as Louise joined Pets at Home in 2004 as Head of April 2006, was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer.
Pets Pets Pets Pets Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
