Governance Report Corporate governance Matters reserved for Board approval A formal schedule of matters is reserved to the Board for its Statement of Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code approval, which includes: The following Corporate Governance Report outlines how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance as required by Agreement of the Groups strategy: the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 published in September Changes to the structure and capital of the Group: 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The Board Approval of any decisions to cease to operate all or any material is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
part of the Groups business: Except as noted under the heading Chairman on page 75, the Approval of extension of activities into new businesses or Board has complied with and intends to continue to comply with geographical areas: the requirements of the Code.
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls: Approval of financial statements and results announcements: The Company is reporting to its shareholders on its compliance Approval of shareholder communications, circulars and Notices with the Code in accordance with the Listing Rules of Meetings: made by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority under Approving significant expenditure, material transactions Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and contracts: as amended from time to time LRs.
Reviewing and agreeing Group tax and treasury policy: Delegation of authority to the Group Chief Executive Officer: The role of the Board Board and Senior Management appointments, arrangements Division of responsibilities and succession planning: The Company is led and controlled by the Board which is collectively Setting of Board Committees Terms of Reference: and responsible for the long term and sustainable performance of the Review of the Groups overall corporate governance matters.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are The separation of responsibilities between the Chairman and the separate and clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities Group Chief Executive Officer, coupled with the reserved matters set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The definitions of described above, ensures that no individual has unfettered powers the roles are published on the Groups website http: investors.
Board composition Board balance and independence The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Committees to The Code recommends that at least half the board of directors assist in discharging its duties and the implementation of matters of a UK-listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise approved by the Board as summarised below.
The reports of each non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent of the Committees are set out on pages 82 to 85, 86 to 87 and in character and judgement and free from relationships or 88 to 107. circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and operational day-to-day matters are delegated to the Group The Board currently consists of five Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer together with the rest of the Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Chairman, one non-Independent Management Team.
Non-Executive Director appointed by the Principal Shareholder and one Executive Director.
The Directors biographies are contained on pages 62 to 63.
The Board considers that all of its NonExecutive Directors are independent in character and judgement and that both individually and collectively, the Directors have the range of skills, knowledge, diversity of experience and dedication necessary to lead the Group and also contribute significantly to the work of the Board together with the requisite strategic and commercial experience.
More than half of the Directors excluding the Chairman and the non-Independent Non Executive Director are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code.
Pets at Home Group Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Chairman or more but less than 20% over the voting rights in respect of the Companys shares.
The Principal Shareholder has appointed Brian The Code recommends that, on appointment, the chairman of a Carroll as a Non-Executive Director of the Board.
The Chairman, company with a premium listing on the Official List should meet Tony DeNunzio, is a senior advisor to affiliates of the Principal the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Tony DeNunzio Shareholder and therefore is not deemed to be independent of the joined Pets at Home in 2010 and has been Non-Executive Principal Shareholder.
Although he has not been appointed as a Chairman of the Group since March 2010.
Notwithstanding that Director by the Principal Shareholder, the Principal Shareholder has the Board did not consider at the time of listing, and continue agreed that for so long as it has the right to appoint two Directors to believe that Tony DeNunzio does not meet the independence to the Board and Tony is a Director, the Principal Shareholder will criteria set out in the Code, the Board believes that Tony should not exercise its right to appoint a second Director to the Board.
remain as Non-Executive Chairman of the Group since he brings For further details of the Relationship Agreement and confirmation vast retail experience and knowledge to the Pets at Home team.
of compliance with the provisions set out in the Relationship The Directors consider that he exercises his role as Chairman Agreement, see page 70 of the Directors Report.
independently of management and exercises his judgement in the interests of all shareholders.
Board observers Each of the Chief Executive Officer of the Retail Division and the Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer of the Services Division has been appointed The Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO is responsible for as Board observer with rights to receive notice of including all the day-to-day management of the Company, and, together with the Board papers, attend and speak at, Board meetings.
The Principal Executive Management Team, for executing the strategy, once it has Shareholder also has the right to appoint, and has appointed, one been agreed by the Board.
The Group CEO creates a framework that Board observer for so long as it holds voting rights over more than optimises resource allocation to deliver the Groups agreed strategic 10% of the Companys shares.
Such Board observers have the objectives over varying timeframes and to ensure the successful right to receive notice of, attend and speak at, Board meetings.
delivery against the financial business plan and other key business No Board observer is entitled to vote on any matter requiring a objectives, allocating decision making and responsibilities resolution of the Board.
The Group CEO together with the Executive Management Team identifies and executes new business Appointments opportunities and potential acquisitions or disposals.
The Group 2016 saw changes to the Board in relation to the appointment CEO manages the Group with reference to its risk profile in the of Ian Kellett as Group CEO.
The Nomination & Corporate context of the Boards risk appetite.
Ian Kellett has recently been Governance Committee is utilising independent recruitment appointed to the role of Group CEO as successor to Nick Wood.
consultants to identify a suitable successor to Ian Kellett as Chief Financial Officer.
Senior Independent Director The Code recommends that the board of directors of a company Appointment terms and elections of Directors with a premium listing should appoint one of the Independent All Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment Non-Executive Directors as a Senior Independent Director to and the details of their terms are set out in the Remuneration provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an Report on pages 103 to 104.
As announced at the time of his intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
The role appointment, the terms of Ian Kellett's service agreement was of Senior Independent Director includes being available to amended, upon his appointment as Group CEO, to include a notice shareholders if they have concerns, which contact through the period of six months from the individual and 12 months from the normal channels of the Group CEO has failed to resolve, or for Company.
The service agreements and letters of appointment are which such contact is inappropriate.
Dennis Millard has been available for inspection at the Companys registered office during appointed Deputy Chairman as well as Senior Independent Director normal business hours.
and has considerable experience of acting as an independent non-executive director on plc boards.
At each AGM of the Company all Directors will stand for re-election in accordance with the Code.
Appointment of Directors by the Principal Shareholder Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, the Company has agreed with the Principal Shareholder that it may appoint two Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as the Principal Shareholder and or any of its associates, when taken together holds 20% or more of the voting rights over the Companys Shares and one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as it and or any of its associates, when taken together holds 10% Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Governance Report continued Effectiveness During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide range Directors induction and ongoing training of matters.
These included: It is important to the Board that Non-Executive Directors have the ability to influence and challenge appropriately.
New Directors Strategy: receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, Succession planning: including meeting with the Executive Team and other members of Performance overall of individual businesses and functions the Groups Operating Board and advisors.
The induction includes in the Group: visits to the Groups stores, veterinary surgeries and other Budgets and long term plans for the Group: operational locations together with training on the Groups core Financial statements and announcements: values including environmental, social and governance issues.
Reviewing reports from the Committees, notably on audit strategy, remuneration, succession planning, the Groups Individual training needs are reviewed regularly and training is corporate social responsibility strategy and measures in place provided where a need is identified or requested.
All Directors to ensure that Pets Before Profit is maintained as the Companys receive frequent updates on a variety of issues relevant to the number one value: Groups business, including regulatory and governance issues.
Approving significant items of capital expenditure and contracts, investments, treasury and dividend policy: Considering diversity Approving new acquisitions: The Board understands the importance of having a diverse Shareholder feedback and reports from brokers and analysts: membership and recognises that diversity encompasses not only Risk management and controls in the Group including gender but also background and experience.
Whilst the Board reputational risks: and believes that appointments should be made solely on merit, we Delegated authorities.
seek to ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate balance through a diverse mix of experience, backgrounds, skills, All Directors receive papers in advance of Board meetings via an knowledge and insight, to further strengthen the diversity of gender electronic board paper system which enables the fast dissemination and experience already on the Board.
Notably, two of the five of quality information in a safe and secure manner.
These include Independent Non-Executive Directors, Tessa Green and Amy a monthly Board report with updates from each of the Executive Stirling, are female together with the Group Company Secretary, Team and the Operating Board, which monitors the achievements Louise Stonier and the CEO of the Services division, Sally Hopson.
of the Groups key performance indicators, both financial and strategic.
These appointments were made on merit, and not on the basis of Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly and gender, the appointees being by far the strongest candidates for any substantial variances are explained.
Forecasts for each half the positions with their skill sets and overall experience fitting the year are revised and reviewed monthly.
objective role description approved by the Board at the outset of the recruitment process.
The Groups Operating Board are also invited to present at Board meetings so that Non-Executive Directors keep abreast of This policy applies equally to all appointments in the Company and developments in the Group.
so, the most recent appointment to the board of the Pets at Home Vets Group is female, Fiona Briault.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present and this practice will Board meetings and attendance continue in the future.
The Senior Independent Director also In this financial year, the Board met formally ten times, plus the attended these sessions.
Ad hoc meetings of both the Board and Committees were arranged to deal with matters between It is important to the Group that all Directors understand external scheduled Board meetings as appropriate.
Board meetings were views of the Group.
Throughout the year, regular reporting is preceded by Committee meetings with the meetings lasting the provided to the Board by the Companys Head of Investor majority of the day in most cases.
Relations, covering broker reports and the output of meetings with significant shareholders.
Topics for the Board meetings are determined at the beginning of the year and new items are added to this as and when appropriate.
Pets at Home Group Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Number of meetings attended Attendance for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below.
Nomination & Corporate Corporate Social Pets Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Responsibility Before Profit Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of meetings 10 5 4 4 2 2 2 Director Tony DeNunzio Chairman 10 4 2 2 Dennis Millard Deputy Chairman 10 5 4 4 2 2 Nick Wood 9 Ian Kellett 10 Amy Stirling 10 5 4 4 Tessa Green 10 5 4 2 2 Paul Coby 9 3 4 2 2 Paul Moody 10 5 4 4 3 Brian Carroll 10 3 1 Excludes the strategy day which all Directors attended.
2 Only attendance of formal members of the meetings is included.
Attendance as an observer is not included.
3 Includes attendance either in person or via his alternate, Nicolas Gheysens, appointed under the Relationship Agreement.
Board Committees The Code recommends that an audit committee should comprise The Board has established three Board Committees: an Audit at least three members who are Independent Non-Executive & Risk Committee, a Nomination & Corporate Governance Directors and that at least one member should have recent Committee, and a Remuneration Committee.
In addition, the and relevant financial experience.
The Audit & Risk Committee Board has also established the Pets Before Profit Committee and is chaired by Amy Stirling, and its other members are Dennis the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee which Millard, Paul Coby and Paul Moody, all of whom are Independent comprise both Non-Executive Directors and colleagues and the Non-Executive Directors.
As a former chief financial officer of Investment Committee which comprises Executive Directors and TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc, the Directors consider that Amy colleagues including a Senior Executive.
If the need should arise, Stirling fulfills the requirement under the UK Corporate Governance the Board may set up additional committees as appropriate.
Code that one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and subject to review each year.
These are available The Audit & Risk Committee meets not less than three times on request from the Group Company Secretary and are published a year.
on the Groups website http: investors.
Only Committee members have the right to attend and vote at its Audit & Risk Committee meetings but the Principal Shareholder has a right to appoint an The Audit & Risk Committee gives due consideration to laws and observer to attend meetings of the Audit & Risk Committee for so regulations, the provisions of the Code and the requirements of long as it and or any of its associates, when taken together holds the LRs.
10% or more of the voting rights in respect of the Companys Shares.
The Audit & Risk Committee chair will be available at the 2016 AGM to respond to questions from shareholders on the activities of the Audit & Risk Committee.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Governance Report continued The Audit & Risk Committee has taken appropriate steps to ensure Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee that the Companys Auditors are independent of the Company and The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee assists obtained written confirmation from the Companys Auditors that the Board in considering the structure, size and composition they comply with guidelines on independence issued by the of the Board whilst advising on succession planning.
relevant accountancy and auditing bodies.
The Code recommends that a majority of the members of a The Audit & Risk Committee has access to sufficient resources nomination committee should be Independent Non-Executive to carry out its duties, including the services of the Group Legal Directors.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Director and Group Company Secretary and the Groups internal is chaired by Tony DeNunzio, and its other members are Dennis audit function.
Independent external legal and professional advice Millard, Paul Coby, Tessa Green, Amy Stirling each of whom is can also be taken by the Audit & Risk Committee if it believes it an Independent Non-Executive Director, and Brian Carroll.
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee meets not less than once a year.
The Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 82 to 85 describes the role and activities of the Committee.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has access to sufficient resources to carry out its duties, including the services of the Group Legal Director and Group Company Remuneration Committee Secretary.
Independent external legal and professional advice The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining can also be taken by the Nomination & Corporate Governance its responsibilities in relation to Directors remuneration.
Committee if it believes it necessary to do so.
The Code provides that a remuneration committee should comprise Further details of the role of and the activities of the Committee at least three members who are Independent Non-Executive can be found on pages 86 to 87.
Directors other than the chairman.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Paul Moody, and its other members are Tessa Green, Other Pets at Home Committees Amy Stirling and Dennis Millard, all of whom are Independent Pets Before Profit Committee and Corporate Social Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee meets not Responsibility Committee less than twice a year.
Non-Executive Directors' and the Chairmans The Pets Before Profit Committee and the Corporate Social fees are determined by the full Board.
Responsibility CSR Committee advise the Board on the Groups corporate responsibility objectives and strategy.
Further details of Only Committee members have the right to attend and vote at its the work carried out by these Committees is contained in the CSR meetings, but the Principal Shareholder has a right to appoint an Committee Report on pages 44 to 59.
CSR is embedded in the observer to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee for so Groups strategy with the number one value being Pets Before Profit.
long as it and or any of its associates, when taken together holds 10% or more of the voting rights in respect of the Companys shares.
The Pets Before Profit Committee and the CSR Committee are chaired by Tessa Green, and its other members are Tony The Remuneration Committee has access to sufficient resources DeNunzio, Dennis Millard and Paul Coby.
A number of the Groups to carry out its duties, including the services of the Group Legal colleagues including members of the Executive Management Director and Group Company Secretary.
Independent external legal Team are also regularly invited to attend meetings of the Pets and professional advice can also be taken by the Remuneration Before Profit and CSR Committee.
The Pets Before Profit Committee and the CSR Committee meet Pages 88 to 107 of the Annual Report on Remuneration formally at least twice a year and otherwise as may be required.
summarise the role and activities of the Committee.
Only Committee members have the right to attend and vote at its meetings but the Principal Shareholder has a right to appoint an observer to attend meetings of the Pets Before Profit Committee and CSR Committee for so long as it and or any of its associates, when taken together holds 10% or more of the voting rights in respect of the Companys shares.
Pets at Home Group Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Management Committees Senior Executive and Operating Board Details of our management committees are set out below: In addition to the Board, the Group has both the Executive Management Team as detailed in the Governance Report on pages Investment Committee 64 and 65 and the Operating Board the Operating Board for The Investment Committee assists the Board with the Groups which respective roles are clearly defined.
The Operating Board store and veterinary surgery rollout process to ensure the Groups meets frequently to discuss the following: investment process is managed effectively and rigorously throughout the Group.
The Investment Committee is chaired by Ian Kellett and Current trading: its other members are Sally Hopson and Peter Pritchard.
A number New developments: of the Groups colleagues are entitled to attend meetings of the Operational issues: Investment Committee as observers including the Director of Marketing: Property, the Group Development Director and the Vet Group People: and Partner Recruitment, Property and People Director.
The Investment Committee meets formally at least ten times a Health and safety year and otherwise as may be required.
Duties of the Investment Health and safety is a key priority for the Board and senior Committee include reviewing and considering all proposals management and is an item for review and discussion at each presented for new store and standalone surgery acquisitions by a Board meeting.
The Board has established a health and safety Group company, approving all material variations to proposed new committee that meets at least on a quarterly basis and is chaired stores and standalone surgery acquisitions, periodically reviewing by the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary with the proposed changes to the reporting and presentation of new store agenda led by the Group Head of Health and Safety.
The committee investment criteria: reviewing all proposals presented for lease is attended by key individuals in the business that are responsible renewals and reviewing alternative strategies for new store for certain areas of health and safety including the veterinary investment, formats and geographical markets and reporting on business, retail and grooming and the committee is tasked with such strategies to the Board for final approval on the terms of any reviewing the Groups overall health and safety performance.
such matter, and reviewing all proposals for the dispositions of A health and safety policy is in place for the Group which is all or part of any of the lease on stores including any sub-letting, reviewed on a regular basis.
assignments, surrenders or relocations and approve or reject any such proposals as appropriate.
Each of the matters approved by The Distribution centres have their own dedicated health and the Investment Committee is subject to the further approval of safety manager and a separate health and safety sub-committee the Board where it falls within the level of expenditure requiring which also meets on a regular basis.
The veterinary business also full Board approval.
The Investment Committee formally updates has a designated health and safety manager and two health and the Board at least once a year in addition to regular updates on safety assessors.
matters approved within the monthly Board packs.
Further details of the work of the health and safety committee are contained on page 50 of our CSR Report.
Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity as detailed on pages 38 to 43 of the Strategic Report.
The Board delegates to the Executive Team the responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and include the risk management processes set out on pages 38 to 43 of the Strategic Report and page 84 of the Audit & Risk Committee Report.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Governance Report continued The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period Board discussion of the key risks and uncertainties facing the and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The systems Group and the risk management system together with deep dives of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate on a number of key risk areas.
Further details are contained in the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 84. provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
A number Directors conflicts of interest The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors the of internal controls operate across the business.
The key controls power to consider and, if appropriate, authorise conflict situations the business relied upon during the year are set out below: where a Directors declared interest may conflict or does conflict with the interests of the Company.
The annual Group wide strategic review of the business took place in October and November 2015 culminating in the preparation Procedures are in place at every meeting for individual Directors of a detailed three year strategic plan which was reviewed and to report and record any potential or actual conflicts which arise.
Following this approval, the business The register of reported conflicts is reviewed by the Board at least carried out its annual budget cycle, again culminating in formal annually.
The Board has complied with these procedures during review and approval by the Board.
Management accounts have been reviewed at meetings of the Board.
These reviews covered the comparison of actual Two potential conflicts of interest were reported in the year ended performance against budget in the period end management 31 March 2016 in circumstances where the Non-Executive accounts and consideration of outturn for the year.
The period end concerned was neither directly nor indirectly involved in any accounts are prepared by the management accounts team and potential dealings between the Group and the company concerned.
reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Finance Director.
The conflicts were authorised by the Board with appropriate All capital investments during the year have been approved by safeguards being put in place.
the Chief Financial Officer: an authority framework is in place which details the approvals required for specific levels of capital spend Whistleblowing Policy including those capital projects requiring full Board approval.
In line The Company has a duty to conduct its affairs in an open and with delegation by the Board, the Investment Committee, chaired by responsible way.
We are committed to high standards of corporate the Group CEO, has reviewed and approved investments in respect governance and compliance with legislation and appropriate codes of the acquisition and fit-out of new stores and new standalone of practice.
By knowing about any wrong doing or malpractice at an veterinary practices: see page 23 for further details.
early stage, we stand a good chance of taking the necessary steps The business plans for each new company acquisition namely to stop it.
We have a policy in place that is designed to encourage the acquisition of Northwest Surgeons Limited, Anderson Moores colleagues to identify such situations and report them without fear Veterinary Specialists Limited, Eye Vet Limited and Dick White of repercussions or recriminations provided that they are acting Referrals Limited have been reviewed and approved by the in good faith.
The policy sets out how any concerns may be raised Board prior to acquisition following internal review and approval.
and when a response can be expected from the Company and There is an internal audit department in place that has its scope in what timescales.
A copy of the Groups Code of Ethics and agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee and has reported at Business Conduct is published on the Groups website each Audit & Risk committee throughout the year.
com investors shareholderaudit reports are presented to the Audit & Risk Committee for information governance .
review and consideration of any material findings.
Where audit This policy and the procedures in place to deal with concerns findings have been raised, management have agreed appropriate raised under the policy were reviewed by the Audit & Risk actions and these are prioritised based on risk.
Further details Committee during the year.
of the areas covered in the internal audit reports can be found in the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 84.
Share dealing code A clearly articulated delegated authority framework in respect The Company has adopted a share dealing code in relation to its of all purchasing activity is in place across the Group.
This is shares that is based on, and is at least as rigorous as, the Model complemented by systemic controls including a contract approval Code as published in the LRs.
The share dealing code applies to policy that reflect the agreed authority framework and clear the Companys Directors, its other PDMRs and certain employees segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments.
of Group companies and they are responsible for procuring the A schedule of matters reserved for the Board is in place for approving compliance of their respective connected persons with the significant transactions and strategic and organisational change.
Pets at Home Group Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Board evaluation and effectiveness The Board believes it is important to explain business Process developments and financial results to the Companys shareholders Despite undertaking an external review in 2015, since the Company and to understand any shareholder concerns.
We communicate is still undergoing the transition from a private company to a public with shareholders on a regular basis.
limited company, the Board decided to repeat the external evaluation exercise and engaged Lintstock Limited Lintstock to undertake an The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the independent evaluation of Board and Board committee performance Groups business activities through its Annual Report, yearly and and to identify areas where the performance and procedures half yearly announcements, interim management statements and of the Board might be further improved.
Lintstock is a specialist other regular trading statements.
This information is also made corporate governance consultancy and has no commercial publicly available via the Companys website.
dealings or other connection with the Group.
During the year, the Company met regularly with analysts and The assessment included the completion of a short form online institutional investors and such meetings will continue.
The Group questionnaire that considered topics covered in the 2015 CEO and Chief Financial Officer have lead responsibility for investor evaluation under the headings: relations.
They are supported by a dedicated Head of Investor Relations who, amongst other matters, organises presentations Board Composition Expertise and Dynamics: for analysts and institutional investors and ensures that Time Management and Board Support: procedures are in place to keep the Board regularly informed Board Committees: of such investors' views.
Strategic and Operational Oversight: Risk Management and Internal Control: All the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major Succession Planning and Human Resource Management: and shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from the Priorities for Change.
arrangements as described above and, during the year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director held such meetings All respondents were then interviewed by Lintstock during which and reported back to the Board.
their responses to the questionnaire were reviewed.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to The CSR Committee Report on page 46 also details the materiality promote the open and frank exchange of views.
assessment survey that was carried out during the year with investors and customers in relation to environment, social and Outputs of the evaluation governance issues.
At a dedicated Board session, a report of the findings of the evaluation and its recommendations were discussed and specific actions agreed.
Pets at Homes investor website is also regularly updated with Overall, the areas highlighted from last years evaluation were seen to news and information including this Annual Report and Accounts have improved considerably since the last review and the top priorities which sets out our strategy and performance together with our for the Board over the coming year were identified as: plans for future growth http: investors.
The Non-Executive Directors continuing to engage with the business and develop the Boards understanding of Pets at Home: Annual General Meeting Supporting the new management structure and those in new roles: The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Reducing and focusing the meeting agendas: Wednesday, 14 September 2016 at Macdonald Manchester Hotel Improving the quality of the Board packs: and & Spa, London Road, Piccadilly, Manchester, Greater Manchester, Ensuring that the people strategy is brought to the Board.
Full details of the meeting are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting sent with this Annual Beyond the annual evaluation, the performance of the Group CEO is Report and Accounts.
The AGM provides all shareholders with the continuously monitored throughout the year by the Chairman and the opportunity to attend and vote on the resolutions put to shareholders Senior Independent Director.
and those shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote using the proxy card enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts Relations with shareholders or electronically by following the instructions set out in the Notice The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the of Meeting whether personally or by proxy.
All resolutions proposed Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just of the Group.
those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Information relating to votes cast will, following the AGM, be available on the Companys website http: investors.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81
