Directors Report This section of the Annual Report includes additional information required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and the Listing Rules LRs of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Pets at Home Group Plc Registered Number: 8885072 Registered Office: Epsom Avenue, Stanley Green Trading Estate, Handforth, Cheshire, SK9 3RN Telephone Number: 44 161 486 6688 Date of Incorporation: 10 February 2014 Country of Incorporation: England and Wales Type: Public Limited Company Statutory information The Company has chosen in accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act to provide disclosures and information in relation to a number of additional matters which are covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
These matters and cross-references to the relevant sections of this Annual Report are shown in the following table.
Statutory information Section heading Page Statutory information Section heading Page Independent Auditors Governance Report 78 Amendment of the Articles Directors' Report 70 Internal Controls and Appointment and Removal of Directors Directors' Report 68 Risk Management Governance Report 7980 Directors' Report 68 Political Donations Directors' Report 71 Board of Directors Board of Directors 6263 Profits and Dividend Directors' Report 70 Branches outside of the UK Directors' Report 72 Post Balance Sheet Events Directors' Report 71 Change of Control Directors' Report 70 Powers for the Company to Exceptional Colleague 47 issue or buy back its shares Directors' Report 68 Engagement Corporate Social Responsibility Powers of the Directors Directors' Report 68 Colleague Involvement Directors' Report 67 Principal Activities Directors' Report 67 Colleagues' Diversity and Disabilities Directors' Report 67 Directors' Report Colleague Share Ownership and Plans Remuneration Report 89 Relationship Agreement Governance Report 70 Heart of the Community 67 Directors' Report Community Corporate Social Responsibility 5153 Strategic Report Product Compensation for loss of office Directors' Report 70 Research and Development & Innovation 3 Compliance with the terms of the Restrictions on transfer of securities Directors' Report 69 Relationship Agreement including 69 Directors' Report the independence provisions Directors' Report 70 Note 21 to the consolidated Directors' Biographies Board of Directors 6263 Share capital financial statements 144145 Directors' Indemnities Directors' Report 69 70 Directors' Report Note 27 to the consolidated Directors' information to Auditors Directors' Report 72 Significant related party transactions financial statements 159 Directors Interests Directors' Report 80 Significant Shareholders Directors' Report 69 Directors' Responsibility Statement Directors' Report 73 Subsidiary and Associated Note 29 to the consolidated 93 Undertakings financial statements 161171 Executive Share Plans Remuneration report 99101 Statement of Corporate Governance Governance Report 74 Note 22 to the consolidated The Audit & Risk Committee Report Governance Report 8285 Financial Instruments financial statements 146155 The Governance Report Governance Report 7481 Future Developments of the Business Strategic Report 2025 The Directors' Remuneration Report Governance Report 88107 Financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position The Nomination and Corporate and borrowing facilities Finance review 3233 Governance Committee Report Governance Report 8687 Corporate Social The Strategic Report Governance Report 159 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Responsibility 59 Treasury and Risk Management Strategic Report 43 Going Concern Directors' Report 71 Viability Statement Directors' Report 71 79 Governance Report Voting Rights Directors' Report 69 Health and Safety Corporate Social Responsibility 50 Human Rights and Modern Slavery Statement Directors' Report 72 Pets at Home Group Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Colleague diversity and disabled persons The information required by LR 9.8.
4R is disclosed on the following The Groups policy for colleagues and all applicants for employment pages of this Annual Report: is to match the capabilities and talents of each individual to the appropriate job.
We are committed to ensuring that equality of opportunity in all colleague relations.
We aim to ensure that no Disclosure Page colleague, potential colleague, customer, visitor or contractor Long term incentive schemes 99101 will receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of: Significant contracts 70 Note 9 to the consolidated Sex Dividend waivers financial statements 134 Pregnancy and maternity Disability Principal activities Religious beliefs The principal activity of the Group is that of a specialist retailer Marital status of pet food, pet related products and pet accessories.
The Group Race is also the operator of a small animal veterinary business and Ethnic origin pet grooming salons and the multi-channel equestrian retailer, Nationality Ride-away.
The Group has also opened a new format, dog focused Age high street store called Barkers, which offers premium products Sexual orientation or following gender reassignment and services targeted at highly engaged dog owners.
The principal Colour activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services Plc Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full situated at The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
The Group Research and development does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the The Strategic Report sets out on pages 3, 10 and 21, training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that the innovation carried out by the Group in relation to training, career development and promotion opportunities are product development.
In addition, the Group also funds a number of research projects The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment and this year we have continued to co-fund a Doctor of Philosophy where current employees become disabled.
Attempts are made in PhD at Exeter University which is looking at how to reduce the every circumstance to provide employment, whether this involves stress suffered by fish when they are transported.
"The PhD is adapting the current job role and remaining in the same job, or moving being co-funded with an executive agency called CEFAS ""Centre to a more appropriate job role."
"for Environment Fisheries and Aquaculture Science"" which is sponsored by DEFRA ""Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs"" and advises DEFRA, as well as other public and private sector customers, on issues connected to the aquatic environment."
Colleague involvement The Group places significant emphasis on colleague engagement at all levels.
Colleagues are kept informed of issues affecting the Group through formal and informal meetings and through the Groups internal written communications.
Further information on colleague engagement is included in the CSR Report on page 47.
Details of the Groups employee share plans are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Directors Report continued Directors Powers of the Directors The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given year, were Directors of the Company are: by the Company by special resolution and any relevant statues and regulations, the business of the Company will be managed by the Name Date of appointment Date of resignation Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Tony DeNunzio 18 February 2014 n a Nick Wood 11 February 2014 4 April 2016 Specific powers relating to the allotment and issuance of ordinary Ian Kellett 11 February 2014 n a shares and the ability of the Company to purchase its own securities Dennis Millard 18 February 2014 n a are also included within the Articles and such authorities are Brian Carroll 18 February 2014 n a submitted for approval by the shareholders at the AGM each year.
Tessa Green 18 February 2014 n a The authorities conferred on the Directors at the 2015 AGM, held on 9 September 2015, will expire on the date of the 2016 AGM.
Paul Coby 18 February 2014 n a Amy Stirling 18 February 2014 n a Since the date of the 2015 AGM, the Directors have not exercised Paul Moody 25 March 2014 n a any of their powers to issue, or purchase, ordinary shares in the Nick Wood resigned from his position as Chief Executive Officer of share capital of the Company.
the Group on 4 April 2016 although he will remain as an employee of the Company until 1 July 2016.
Nick Wood was succeeded by Directors interests Ian Kellett on 4 April 2016.
The Directors interests in and options over, ordinary shares in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report Appointment and removal of a Director on page 93.
A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in a general meeting following recommendation Since the end of the financial year and the date of this report, by the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee in there have been no changes to such interests.
accordance with its terms of reference as approved by the Board or by a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting, In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, each Director or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she has, re-election at a general meeting.
or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or conflict.
These were considered and approved by the Board in as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the accordance with the Articles and each Director informed of the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain authorisation and any terms on which it was given.
The Board has circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
The or by a special resolution of the Company.
Board reviews and, where appropriate, approves certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a Specific details relating to the Principal Shareholder, KKR My Best register of those situational conflicts is maintained and is reviewed Friend Limited, an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P. by the Board on an ongoing basis.
and their right to appoint Directors are set out in the Governance Report on page 75.
All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
Pets at Home Group Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Directors indemnities Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Each Director of the Company has the benefit of a qualifying Companys shares that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
indemnity, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act, and as permitted by the Articles, as well as prospectus liability Restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of in the performance of their duties or powers in connection with the ordinary shares in the Company other than the usual restrictions issue of the Companys prospectus dated 28 February 2014 in applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
All issued relation to the Listing.
In addition, all directors and officers of Group share capital of the Company at the date of this Annual Report companies are covered by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements No amount was paid under any of these indemnities or insurances relating to close periods and requirements of the LRs whereby during the year other than the applicable insurance premiums.
Directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2016 For a period of one year following the date of the Companys and 25 May 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to Listing, each of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the the date of this Annual Report, comprises 500,000,000 ordinary Senior Executives excluding the Group Company Secretary each, shares of 1 pence each.
Further information regarding the a Restricted Shareholder agreed, on the terms and subject to Companys issued share capital can be found in note 21 of the conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, not to dispose of the Groups financial statements.
any of the ordinary shares they hold in the Company the Initial Lock-Up Period.
Although the Initial Lock-Up Period expired There have been no movements in the Companys issued share on 16March 2015, each Restricted Shareholder also entered capital in the 2016 reporting period.
into a lock-up deed dated 12 March 2014 with the Company.
On the terms of each lock-up deed, each Restricted Shareholder undertook, for an additional period of 365 days commencing on Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 23 to the termination of the Initial Lock-Up Period, not to dispose of the Groups financial statements.
more than a specified number of ordinary shares in the Company in each case, approximately 50% of the relevant Restricted Shareholders voting rights Shareholders holding of ordinary shares.
The additional lock-up All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and periods expired on 16 March 2016. vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every All of the above arrangements are subject to certain member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every customary exceptions.
No shareholder holds ordinary shares carrying special rights relating to the control of the Company and the Significant shareholdings As at 31 March 2016 and 25 May 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Annual Report, the Company has been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of Number of ordinary shares as % of issued ordinary shares % of issued Nature of holding Name of shareholder at 31.03.16 share capital as at 25.05.16 share capital direct indirect KKR My Best 1 Friend Limited 99,372,190 19.9% 99,372,190 19.9% Direct 1 MBF Co-Invest L. P. 23,640,896 4.7% 23,640,896 4.7% Direct Schroders Investment Management 35,584,330 7.12% 35,584,330 7.12 % Direct Old Mutual Plc 65,381,183 13.08% 70,836,503 14.17% Direct Kames Capital Plc 15,012,970 3.00% 14,888,768 3.00% Direct GIC Private Ltd 24,966,634 4.9933% 24,966,634 4.99% Direct 1 an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P. Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Directors Report continued Transactions with related parties Amendment of the Articles The only subsisting material transactions which the Company has The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the entered into with related parties are: Companys shareholders in a general meeting, in accordance with the Companies Act.
Relationship Agreement: The Relationship Agreement was entered into on 28 February 2014 and regulates the relationship Profits and dividend before exceptional items The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was between KKR My Best Friend Limited the Principal 77,079,000 FY15: 67,876,000.
The results are discussed Shareholder and the Company following Listing.
Subject to in greater detail in the finance review on pages 30 to 33. a certain minimum shareholding, the Relationship Agreement details the rights the Principal Shareholder has to representation A final dividend of 5.5 pence per share FY15: 3.6 pence per on the Board and Nomination & Corporate Governance share will be recommended to the Companys shareholders Committee: appoint observers to the Remuneration, Audit & Risk in respect of the 2016 financial year.
The final dividend will be and the Pets Before Profit CSR Committees and certain antiproposed by the Directors at the AGM on 14 September 2016 in dilution rights.
The Company has also undertaken to cooperate respect of the year ended 31 March 2016 to add to an interim with the Principal Shareholder in the event of a sale of the dividend of 2.0 pence per share paid on 8 January 2016 ordinary shares by the Principal Shareholder at any time.
The Relationship Agreement complies with the requirements of The Directors proposed final dividend of 5.5 pence per share the LRs, including LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a, which came into effect on takes the total dividend payable in respect of the 2016 financial 16 May 2014, and LR 6.1.
The ex-dividend date will be 18 August 2016 and, subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM, the In accordance with the requirements of LR 9.8.
4 14, the Board final dividend of 5.5 pence per share will be paid to shareholders confirms that the Company has complied with its obligations on the register at the close of business on 19 August 2016. under the Relationship Agreement, including in respect of the independence provisions set out therein, at all times since it Compensation for loss of office and change of control was entered into, including throughout the period under review, There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors and, so far as the Company is aware, KKR My Best Friend or colleagues providing for additional compensation for loss of Limited and its associates have complied with the provisions office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy of the Relationship Agreement including the independence or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
provisions set out therein, at all times since it was entered into, including throughout the period under review.
The only significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Senior Facilities Agreement: KKR Capital Markets Limited Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, are KCM, an affiliate of the Principal Shareholder, was entitled asfollows: to receive a syndication agent fee equal to 0.50% of the total commitments under the terms of a senior facilities agreement The Relationship Agreement with the Principal Shareholder dated 18 February 2014 Senior Facilities Agreement entered contains a provision allowing the Principal Shareholder to into in connection with the Listing.
terminate the agreement with immediate effect if any person acquires control of the Company namely holding and or Amendment to the Senior Facilities Agreement: On 14 April ownership of the beneficial interest in and or the ability to 2015, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into exercise the voting rights applicable to ordinary shares or other an amendment agreement the Amendment Agreement to the securities in the Company which confer, in aggregate on the Senior Facilities Agreement.
KCM received fees of 500,000 holders, whether directly or indirectly, more than fifty per cent.
period to 26 March 2015: nil, relating to professional services of the voting rights exercisable at general meetings of the associated with debt financing following the refinancing of the Company or the Company ceases to be Listed.
Pets at Home Group in April 2015.
Further details of the Groups banking facilities are shown in note 18 on page 142 of the financial statements.
Certain of the payments made under the Amendment to the Senior Facilities Agreement have been made this financial year.
Pets at Home Group Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report The Senior Facilities Agreement and the Amendment Agreement Going concern contain customary prepayment, cancellation and default provisions On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, including, if required by a lender, mandatory prepayment of all the Directors are satisfied that the Group is well placed to manage utilisations provided by that lender upon the sale of all or substantially its business risks successfully and therefore have a reasonable all of the business and assets of the Group or a change of control.
expectation that the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of 12 months from the date Political donations of approval of the financial statements.
Accordingly, the financial The Group made no political donations and incurred no political statements continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
expenditure during the year FY15: nil.
It remains the Companys policy not to make political donations or to incur political Viability statement expenditure, however the application of the relevant provisions The Group has developed a detailed strategic and business planning SBP process, which comprises a strategic plan of the Companies Act is potentially very broad in nature and, Plan containing financial projections for a number of future as last year, the Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure years and a business plan which forms a detailed near term one that the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as year plan for the current financial year.
The SBP process produces a result of the breadth of its business activities, although the standard outputs in respect of the key financial performance Board has no intention of using this authority.
metrics of the Group which deliver consolidated financial plans at both Group level and at a number of levels within the Group.
Suppliers The Plan is reviewed each year by the Board as part of the strategy The Group understands the importance of maintaining good review process.
Once approved by the Board, the Plan is cascaded relationships with suppliers and it is Group policy to agree across the Group and provides the basis for setting all detailed appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with financial budgets and strategic actions that are subsequently suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually used by the Board to monitor performance.
negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in accordance with these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its The SBP process covers a three year period.
The three year plan obligations.
Average trade creditors of the Groups UK operations provides a robust planning tool against which strategic decisions for FY16 were 46 days FY15: 42 days.
In making their viability assessment, the Board has taken into consideration that financing facilities are maintained Post balance sheet events for the duration of the Plan.
The Directors have considered a The Group acquired two veterinary specialist referral centres post combination of risks and uncertainties and the mitigating controls year end.
These are: operated by the Group as detailed on pages 38 to 43 that may impact on the Groups reputation and its ability to trade.
These Dick White Referrals, based in Cambridgeshire, and which is risks include issues on pet welfare, competitor activity and broader one of the UKs largest small animal specialist veterinary referral macro-economic risks and their impact on the Strategic Plan on centres, treating over 5,000 cases each year and employing an individual and combined level.
31 veterinary specialists across a wide range of areas.
It will operate as a shared venture On this basis and in conjunction with other matters considered and model through which the founder, Professor Dick White, and the reviewed by the Board during the year, the Board has reasonable key clinicians, will retain 24% equity ownership.
expectations that the Group will be able to continue in operation Eye Vet Referrals, a dedicated Opthalmology centre with six and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three financial veterinary specialists, which is based in Cheshire and already years used for their assessment.
In making this assessment, provides services to one of our referral centres, NorthWest the Board have assumed that there is no material change in the Surgeons as well as to other primary opinion veterinary practices.
legislative environment in relation to the sale of small animals Eye Vet Referrals will also operate as a shared venture, with the and the practice of veterinary medicine.
It is recognised that founders retaining 10% equity ownership.
such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Directors Report continued Human rights and modern slavery statement Auditor Pets at Home is the UKs leading specialist retailer of pets, pet So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit related products and services.
We run the UKs largest small information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware.
Each animal veterinary and grooming businesses through our vets and Director has taken all the steps which they ought to have taken services brands.
as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information being information that is needed by the Companys Our mission is to be the best pet shop in the world.
We therefore Auditor in connection with preparing its report and to establish take great care in operating our business and in selecting our that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The products we sell are sourced from a broad range of suppliers, both national and international.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance We are the only UK pet retailer to have a dedicated sourcing office with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Companies Act.
From our regional base in Hong Kong, which opened in 2012, we have a team of product technologists who At the AGM on 9 September 2015, KPMG LLP was appointed as support our buyers, oversee our suppliers and monitor production.
During the 2015 financial year, a competitive tender process of audit services was completed in accordance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Our suppliers are required to comply with our Ethical Trading Policy Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive and we undertake ethical audits which cover: hours of work, labour Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order practices, working conditions, onsite accommodation, health & 2014, made by the Competition & Markets Authority.
safety, environment, supply chain management and wages.
We also require compliance with the Pets at Home Groups Code of A resolution is to be proposed at the 2016 AGM for the Business Ethics and Conduct.
reappointment of KPMG LLP as the Auditor of the Group.
We have undertaken a Group wide risk assessment to highlight Approval of Annual Report any areas where we may be vulnerable to the risk of modern The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and the slavery and, where necessary, will strengthen our processes in Corporate Governance Report were approved by the Board on the areas highlighted.
We are also reviewing our supplier due 25 May 2016. diligence and audit processes to ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Act.
In addition, we are updating Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by our supplier trading terms and Ethical Trading Policy in relation to the Act.
Should any instances of non-compliance with the Act arise in relation to any of our suppliers then this will be reviewed and appropriate action taken.
Louise Stonier Group Company Secretary The Pets at Home Group Plc Board of Directors approved this 25 May 2016 statement at a meeting of the Board on 20 April 2016.
Branches outside the UK The Company has no branches outside the UK.
Pets at Home Group Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
