Audit & Risk Committee Report Amy Stirling Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Introduction Who is on the Audit & Risk Committee?
I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committees Report for the year.
Our primary function is to assist the Board in fulfilling Member No.
of meetings its responsibilities to protect the interests of the shareholders Amy Stirling Chairman 4 4 with regard to the integrity of the financial reporting, the adequacy Dennis Millard 4 4 and effectiveness of the risk management systems and internal Paul Coby 3 4 controls, the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the Paul Moody 4 4 relationship with the external auditors.
During the year the Committee met four times with our agenda covering financial reporting considerations, progress against What we did in 2016 the internal audit plan and the external audit process.
We have Reviewed updates to the financial accounting framework considered risk regularly throughout the year, reviewing updates in which the Group operates and how this may affect the to the Group risk register and conducting deep dives with financial statements.
management into specific key risks.
Received a whistleblowing and code of ethics update.
"In addition to our regular agenda, this year we have considered In addition to our work ensuring that the going concern basis financial reporting control processes, reviewed and challenged the is appropriate, we have this year reviewed and challenged the LTVS before its assessment by the Board, and discussed external Longer Term Viability Statement ""LTVS"" in advance of its audit effectiveness following the tender process conducted last approval by the Board."
As part of this work, the carrying value year.
With management, we have conducted deep dives into key of the goodwill balance has been reviewed.
business risks, such as the implementation of a new payroll and HR All businesses continue to be exposed to cyber and information system to improve support provided to our colleagues in Health and security risks and this has been a key focus of the Committee Safety, in understanding and improving the working environment, this year.
and in Information Security, given the increased awareness of the challenges all businesses face in keeping data safe.
We have performed deep dives on a number of key risks together with management to ensure that all possible mitigating Committee members actions are identified and implemented.
The Audit & Risk Committee the Committee members have Reviewed the Terms of Reference for the Committee.
been selected to provide a wide range of financial and commercial experience necessary to fulfil the duties and responsibilities of the Committee.
The Board considers the Committee members What we will do in 2017 financial experience to be recent and relevant for the purpose of the Code.
Further details of the members can be found in Continue to carry out our responsibilities as set out in the Terms the Board of Directors on pages 62 to 63. of Reference, including monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements, challenging the judgemental areas The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the contained within the financial statements and advising the Board Head of Internal Audit and an observer appointed by the Principal on whether external reporting is fair, balanced and reasonable.
Shareholder also attend Committee meetings by invitation, As the Group moves forward with further investment in systems, together with representatives from KPMG.
In addition, this year, we will continue to monitor the controls around the investment in as the Chief Financial Officers responsibilities expanded to include and delivery of key IT initiatives, as well as continuing to review the Chief Executive Officer of Retail role, the Director of Finance controls around cyber security in this increasingly complex area.
and the Chief Financial Officer of the Vets Group have also attended the Committee meetings.
The Group Company Secretary We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups acts as secretary to the Audit & Risk Committee.
We will agree an Internal Audit strategy for FY17 and beyond, defining ways of working as well as specific projects.
We expect to review each of the top risks in a deep dive during the year.
We will document in further detail the controls and processes within the Vets Group, focusing in particular on the integration of the recent acquisitions.
Pets at Home Group Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report We have devoted significant time during the year to reviewing the Groups risk management systems.
The Chairman of the Committee also meets throughout the year To further monitor the integrity of the financial statements and with the Chief Financial Officer, Director of Finance, Chief Financial results we have also: Officer of the Vets Group and the Head of Internal Audit to discuss ongoing matters.
Received an update from management as to the process for recognising income from suppliers.
As reported last year, this is The Committee meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit recognised in a prudent manner reflecting the activity performed and the Groups external auditors without management present by suppliers and the level of confidence in any performance during the year.
As a result, we consider supplier income to be recognised appropriately in the financial statements: Financial Reporting Reviewed the Groups policies on tax and treasury.
The treasury As part of our ongoing work to ensure the integrity of financial policy, which has not changed significantly in the year, covers our transactions with banks and other financial institutions and reporting, during the year, we have focused on the following: includes the level of hedging that the Group has in place, particularly on interest rates and foreign currencies.
The tax Reviewed the appropriateness of the Annual Report for the policy, which outlines the Groups attitude to tax and risk, our year ended 31 March 2016 which is a 53 week period, and relationship with HMRC and relationships with external tax the interim financial statements for the 28 week period ended advisors, have not changed significantly in the year, however, 8 October 2015 with a focus on, amongst other matters, the we receive frequent updates on each of corporate tax, quality and acceptability of accounting policies and procedures, VAT and employment taxes across the Group: material areas where judgement has been applied and clarity Reviewed and discussed with management changes in the of disclosures in accordance with financial reporting standards.
financial reporting landscape currently being considered, in Following these reviews we believe that the Annual Report is particular, leasing, revenue recognition and financial instruments.
The proposed standard IFRS 16 Leases will have the greatest Revisited and refreshed work undertaken in 2014 to ensure impact on the presented financial position of the Group and an that our financial procedures and controls are adequate for the initial impact assessment has been carried out.
size and complexity of the business.
Although there are no significant changes in the financial control framework since the Going concern and longer term viability work was originally completed, the Vets Group business has Our work expanded this year in line with the requirements become a larger part of the Group and is therefore subject to of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code to incorporate a incremental controls.
comprehensive review of the process to underpin the longer term viability statement in addition to our regular review on going Financial statement reporting issues concern.
In considering viability overall, the Committee reviewed The Committee has carefully considered the key judgements the Groups three year Strategic Plan with particular focus on the applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial key assumptions in relation to revenue and our store and service statements.
The Committee considers the key risks within expansion plans.
Sensitivities to these key assumptions were the financial statements to be the carrying value of goodwill also reviewed based on the impact of the Groups key risks, and the carrying value of inventory.
KPMG have also identified individually and conflated, as set out on pages 38 to 43. these areas as key audit risks when planning their audit.
Following an iterative process of review of the detailed During the year the Committee has: considerations set out above by the Committee and the Executive Management team, the Committee is satisfied that Reviewed managements work on testing the goodwill balance it is appropriate for the Group to continue to adopt the going for impairment and reviewed and challenged the forecasts, concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts assumptions, sensitivities and stress tests used in this work: of the Group and, further, that the longer term viability statement Gained confidence regarding the valuation of inventory through on page 71 of the Directors Report is appropriate.
our work on financial control processes and the implementation of the new JDA warehouse management system together with the review each period of the management information regarding inventory balances.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Audit & Risk Committee Report continued Risk management and internal controls Specific work performed during the year in our key risk areas Risk management and the system of internal control are the included an audit of pet welfare processes as part of Brand and responsibility of the Board.
It ensures that there is a process in Reputation, under Business Systems and Information Security, place to identify, assess and manage significant risks that may internal audit carried out work on the implementation of a new affect achievement of the Groups objectives and that the level Group HR & payroll system, a review of VIP management and profile of such risks is acceptable.
The Committee provides information and a post implementation review of the new JDA oversight and challenge to the assessment of principal risks as warehouse management system.
Under our Regulatory and set out on pages 38 to 39.
The Groups key risks and uncertainties Compliance risk, work was conducted through a review of are set out on pages 40 to 43.
Customs Duty and VAT disclosures.
Following the review of risk management processes last year, the All reports, related findings and recommended actions have been Committee now performs regular deep dives into the Groups key discussed by the Committee and are tracked to completion.
Members of the Executive Management Team attend the Committee and set out the background and nature of the specific External audit risk area along with the mitigations that are in place, any planned KPMG presents their Audit Plan, Risk Assessment and audit findings future actions and an assessment of the remaining level of risk.
to the Committee, identifying their consideration of the key audit During the year, reviews were conducted on Information Security, risks for the year and the scope of their work.
These reports are Health and Safety and the implementation process of a new Group discussed throughout the audit cycle.
As in the prior year, these risks HR and Payroll system.
were considered to be the carrying value of goodwill and the carrying value of inventory.
In their reports presented to the Committee at Internal audit both the half year and full year, the auditors considered these risks The internal audit function has a direct line of report into the to be appropriately addressed and raised no significant areas of Committee and is an important part of the assurance process concern in these or any other areas of their review.
The Committee reviews and approves the internal audit plan for the year which is developed to address key KPMG also attend the Committee meetings and meet separately, risks across the business as well as reviewing core governance, without management present, to discuss any issues in detail.
Audit tendering The Head of Internal Audit and Risk has attended each Committee The Statutory Audit Service Order 2014 The Order requires that meeting, updating on progress against the audit plan throughout audit firms are rotated every ten years unless there is a tender, in the year, and reporting on findings from the reviews carried out and which case, the audit firm can remain in position for 20 years.
We progress against any mitigating actions.
are in compliance with The Order and performed a tender process which concluded in January 2015.
Following this tender process KPMG, who have audited the Group since 2000, were reappointed as auditors at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Pets at Home Group Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report External auditors effectiveness Following the audit tender process in the previous financial year, During the year, the Committee considered the effectiveness, we appointed Ernst & Young LLP as tax advisors to the Group, independence and objectivity of the external auditors through the while KPMG continue to provide tax support services to the Joint review of all reports provided, regular contact and dialogue both Venture partners.
during Committee meetings and separately without management.
In addition, this year, we conducted an audit effectiveness review Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG as auditors and to authorise the through a questionnaire to Committee members, the results of Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the which were discussed with KPMG.
Annual General Meeting that will take place on 14 September 2016.
Maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is essential.
Additional non-audit services provided by the auditors may impair their independence or give rise to a perception that their independence may be impaired.
Accordingly, a formal policy, based on the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard No.
5 Non-audit services provided to audited entities, has been adopted to provide Amy Stirling clarity over the type of work that is acceptable for the external Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee auditors to carry out and the process required for approval.
25 May 2016 Audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG in the year total 231,000 and an analysis is presented in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 130.
Audit fees across the Group were 173,000, with KPMG also receiving 35,000 for the review of the interim financial statements and an additional 23,000 for tax compliance and advisory services.
In addition to the above KPMG provide audit and non-audit services to the joint venture practices and received 365,000 in respect of audit fees and 154,000 in respect of tax compliance fees.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85
