Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Audit Committee report Monitoring the external auditors Composition Responsibilities independence and objectivity, including the effectiveness of the audit services: The Audit Committee comprises four The Audit Committees primary function independent Non-executive Directors is to assist the Board in fulfilling its financial Monitoring and approving the scope and costs of audit: and and is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who oversight responsibilities.
The Board is a qualified Chartered Accountant and is required by the Code to establish Ensuring audit independence and preapproving any significant non-audit member of the Institute of Taxation.
formal and transparent arrangements for Therefore Andrew has recent relevant considering how it should apply required services to be provided by the auditor.
financial experience, in compliance with the financial reporting standards and internal Code provision C3.1, and was appointed control principles and also for maintaining Audit Committees to chair the Committee on his appointment appropriate relationships with the activities to the Board in June 2012.
The other Companys external auditors, BDO.
members of the Audit Committee are Paul The Committees terms of reference In 2016, the Audit Committee met formally Hewitt, John Jackson and Claire Milne, all can be viewed on the Companys website four times.
is authorised to obtain independent advice Matters that were considered by the if considered necessary.
In particular, the Code calls for the Committee during the year included: description of the work of the Audit The Chief Financial Officer attended Committee to include the significant Valuation of available-for-sale all meetings of the Audit Committee issues considered in relation to the investments held by the Group: by invitation, and the Vice President of financial statements and how they were Management of the Groups cash Finance was invited to attend the meetings addressed, how the Committee assessed balances in particular the effectiveness of the Committee that considered the the effectiveness of the external audit of the Groups treasury management and audited accounts and the interim financial process, the approach of the Committee to hedging practices and stability of the statements, as was the external auditor, appointing the auditors and how objectivity Groups banking relationships: BDO LLP BDO.
The members of the and independence are safeguarded Adoption of an updated risk register Committee were also able to meet the relative to non-audit services.
for the Group: auditors without any Executive Directors Effectiveness of the Groups system of being present in order to receive feedback The primary responsibilities delegated internal controls and risk management: from them on matters such as the quality to, and discharged by, the Committee Entry into related party transactions and of interaction with management.
The included: structured agreements: Chairman of the Committee also met with Updates on people risk, and BDO separately on several occasions to Monitoring and challenging the cybersecurity risks: discuss matters involving the audit process.
effectiveness of internal control and Review of internal audit plan: associated functions: Results of internal audit reviews, During the year, the Chairman of the Approving and amending Group management action plans to resolve any Audit Committee met, individually and in accounting policies: issues arising and the tracking of their private, with members of the management Reviewing and ensuring the integrity of resolution: and team in order to understand more fully interim and annual financial statements, Review of Committee terms of reference.
the context and challenges of Playtechs in particular the actions and judgements business operations and thereby ensure of management in relation thereto before Its work also included reviewing the final the Committees time was used most submission to the Board: and interim financial statements and matters effectively.
The activities of the Committee Monitoring the implementation of the raised by management and BDO.
After members during the last year have enabled Companys Code of Business Ethics discussions with both management and the it to gain a good understanding of the Code of Ethics and compliance with external auditor, including the consideration culture of the organisation, the risks and their provisions: of acquisition accounting relating to challenges faced and the adequacy and Reviewing the Companys arrangements Markets Limited, the Committee determined timeliness of the action being taken to for its employees to raise concerns, that the key risks of misstatement of the address them.
anonymously or in confidence and Groups financial statements, related to the without fear of retaliation, about possible following areas which are described in the wrongdoing in financial reporting or other relevant accounting policies and detailed matters arising under the Code of Ethics: in the Notes to the financial statements on Reviewing promptly all reports on the pages 109 to 153.
Company from the internal auditors and reviewing and assessing the annual internal audit plan: 68 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Audit Committee report continued the Head of Regulatory and Compliance.
Revenue recognition Goodwill and Following this review, the Committee intangible assets were satisfied that adequate provisions The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect of revenue and disclosures were being made for During the year, the Audit Committee any potential contingent liabilities.
recognition, in particular to assess the also considered the judgements made recognition of revenue from arrangements in relation to the valuation methodology The Audit Committee reviewed and with customers and partners where adopted by management to support the Group is to be remunerated other approved the overall tax management the carrying value of goodwill and other and strategy of the Group during the year than by way of a simple revenue share intangible assets to determine whether arrangement, and undertook a review of in light of external and internal advice there was a risk of material misstatement sought by management and reviewed key contracts.
Following this review, the in the carrying value of these assets Committee concluded that the timing of how the Group considers tax as part of its and whether an impairment should be overall business planning.
Consideration revenue recognition continues to be in line recognised.
The Committee considered the with IFRS requirements.
BDO performed was given to transfer pricing studies assumptions, estimates and judgements carried out on behalf of the Group in the detailed audit procedures on revenue made by management to support the recognition and reported their findings period, and assessed, in respect of earlier models that underpin the valuation of studies, whether there had been any to the Committee, which was satisfied intangible assets in the balance sheet.
as a result of the review process that change in the basis of operations in the Business plans and cash-flow forecasts relevant territories.
Furthermore, given the approach taken by the Group in the prepared by management supporting financial statements was appropriate.
that the tax rules and practices governing the future performance expectations the e-commerce environment in which used in the calculation were reviewed.
the Group operates continue to evolve, Business combinations The Committee received a report on based on the aforementioned external the outcome of the impairment review The Audit Committee reviewed the and internal advice received, the Audit performed by management.
The Committee considered developments judgements made in connection with impairment review was also an area of the accounting treatment for business and pending changes in domestic and focus for the external auditor, who reported international tax laws and was satisfied combinations during the year, together their findings to the Committee.
The with the assessment of related liabilities in that adequate tax provisions and Committee satisfied itself that no material disclosures were being made for connection with deferred and contingent impairments were required to the carrying consideration.
The Committee reviewed any potential liabilities.
value of goodwill or other intangible assets.
the purchase price allocations prepared by professional advisers, together with the Related party Legal, regulatory underlying judgements and forecasts used transactions to determine the fair value of intangible and taxation assets, put and call options, and contingent The Audit Committee examined the consideration, and satisfied itself that the Given the developing nature of the practices and procedures adopted by gambling sector in many countries across approach to the accounting treatment the Group to ensure that related party taken by the Group was appropriate and the world, there is a risk that potential transactions are conducted on arms material legal or regulatory matters are not in accordance with IFRS requirements length terms.
The Committee considered and accounting practice.
In particular, the disclosed or provided for in the financial the processes followed in relation to such statements and therefore the Committee Committee reviewed and considered transactions that were entered into during Board papers prepared to support the considered with the Groups compliance 2016 and concluded that the process had and legal departments whether there were assessment of the fair value of contingent worked effectively and that the related consideration at 31 December 2016 in any known instances of material breaches party transactions with entities that are in regulatory and licence compliance that respect of the 2015 acquisition of Markets related by virtue of a common significant Limited, based on the most up to date needed to be disclosed or other claims shareholder had been properly conducted that required provisions to be made in information available and computation on an arms length basis and appropriately of the potential liability under the terms the financial statements.
In particular, disclosed in the financial statements.
the Committee considered forthcoming of the share price agreement.
BDO undertook a review of this area changes in the regulatory environment as part of its audit work.
in a number of jurisdictions in which the Groups licensees operate.
The Committee considered the control systems adopted to identify potential regulatory issues and the compliance control systems operating in the Group.
Discussions were held with Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 An Internal Audit Plan for 2017 was BDOs audit in respect of the year ended Financial statements developed by the Internal Audit Team 31December 2015 was subject to review by and agreed with the Audit Committee the FRCs Audit Quality Review team during The Groups financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee in at the November 2016 Audit Committee the year as part of its routine program of meeting.
Internal Audit will carry out audits audit firm quality inspection program.
In line advance of their consideration by the Board.
The Committee confirms that it in accordance with this plan using a risk with its policy, the Committee was provided based approach and continue to maintain with a copy of the review findings.
The is satisfied that the auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and effective lines of communication with the Committee discussed the findings of the Audit Committee and key management.
review with the audit engagement partner professionalism.
The Internal Audit Team will also be utilised and consider that the points raised have to provide assurance over corporate been addressed as part of the audit of Having undertaken the processes described above, the Committee is satisfied governance matters and for ad hoc 31December 2016 year end.
that the financial statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key During the year the auditors undertook The Board confirms that any necessary certain specific pieces of non-audit estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
action will be taken to remedy any work including work in relation to tax significant failings or weaknesses identified matters and the evaluation of potential On the basis of the above, the Committee from any Internal Audit reviews.
BDO were selected of internal controls and audit is designed to undertake these tasks due to their consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, to ensure local legal and regulatory familiarity with the gambling industry.
In compliance and manage, rather than order to maintain BDOs independence balanced, understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve and objectivity, BDOundertook its standard business objectives.
It can therefore only independence procedures in relation to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
provide reasonable and not absolute those engagements.
Further details of assurance against material misstatement the non-audit fees are included in Note or loss.
6 to the financial statements on page 122.
Internal control At the beginning of 2016, we appointed The Audit Committee will continue Auditors independence to assess the effectiveness and two experienced Internal Auditors to report directly to the Head of Internal Audit.
This The Audit Committee, on behalf of the independence of the external auditors.
In doing so, the Audit Committee will was in recognition of the increasing levels Board, undertakes a formal assessment of complexity in relation to internal controls of the auditors independence each year, consider a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the and a desired commitment to have a which includes: dedicated in-house function.
The Audit Committee will continue to comply with the Competition Commission Internal Audit relationship between A review of non-audit related services  LLP PwC and provided by BDO and related fees: Order relating to the statutory audit market for FTSE 350 companies, which Playtech is therefore now a co-sourced A discussion with the auditor of a written arrangement, with PwC continuing to report detailing all relationships with the came into effect from 1 October 2014.
The Audit Committee expects a formal tender provide support to the Internal Audit Team Group and any other parties which could given their experience of the Group and affect independence or the perception of process to be held no later than 2018. the specialist services they offer.
independence: A review of the auditors own procedures Andrew Thomas Chairman of Audit Committee During the year, the Internal Audit Team for ensuring independence of the audit performed a number of reviews over both firm and partners and staff involved in the 22 February 2017 individual entities and central functions audit, including the periodic rotation of such as Finance, IT and HR.
The results the audit partner: of these audits were reported to the Obtaining written confirmation from the Audit Committee on a regular basis, with auditors that they are independent: and recommendations made by Internal Audit A review of fees paid to the auditors in and corresponding management actions respect of audit and non-audit services.
being reviewed and challenged, where appropriate.
In addition to regular feedback of audit results, the Internal Audit Team monitor completion of management actions and provide updates of these to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
70 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report annual statement During 2016, the Committee reviewed the Dear Shareholder Philosophy Policy, taking close account of the business strategy, current and emerging market On behalf of the Board, I welcome Our Remuneration Policy, which is set out the opportunity to present the practice and the best practice expectations in more detail in this report, is designed of institutional investors, to ensure it Remuneration Committees report to reward the contributions of senior on Directors remuneration for the year remained fit for purpose.
In particular, the management as well as incentivise them to Committee wishes to ensure that the Policy to 31 December 2016.
This report, as maintain and enhance Playtechs position required by the Code, describes how will ensure that executive remuneration: as the software and services provider of the Board has applied the principles choice to the gambling sector and deliver of the Code to Directors remuneration.
Is aligned to the delivery of the Groups in line with Playtechs M&A strategy.
business strategy: Although Playtech is an Isle of Man Is appropriate in terms of quantum Remuneration is delivered via fixed taking into account the experience incorporated entity and, as such, is remuneration and simple and transparent not required to comply with the UK of the executives and market data for incentive-based plans enabling the organisations of a similar size regulations on Directors remuneration, we Executive Directors to be rewarded for recognise the importance of shareholder and complexity: delivering strong financial performance and Is sufficiently flexible to cope with transparency.
Accordingly, we can sustainable returns to shareholders.
In fast confirm that the Company adheres to the changes to the Group over the life moving sectors such as ours we need to of the policy: and UK regulations and the report below is apply the policy flexibly in order to deliver divided into: i this Annual Statement: ii Will strengthen the alignment between the right level of overall pay to Directors.
executives and shareholders: the Remuneration Policy Report containing the Groups Remuneration Policy, as Performance outcome and therefore will be in the best interests approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM the Policy and iii the Annual Report on of shareholders to ensure future growth for 2016 of the Group.
Remuneration or ARR that reports on the 2016 was an extremely busy year for implementation of the Companys stated Playtech with outstanding operational At the time of publishing this report, the Remuneration Policy for the year to and financial performance.
Committee was in consultation with major been driven through strong organic shareholders on the proposed changes growth and successful acquisitions to the Policy and therefore the new policy and strategic agreements.
which will be put to a vote in May 2017 will be published separately.
In line with the UK This excellent performance resulted in regulations, the existing Policy will be put to achieving impressive results across our key a binding vote at the forthcoming AGM and financial performance measures including the revised policy will be put to a binding growth in revenue of 12%, Adjusted EBITDA vote at the General Meeting to be held 20%, Adjusted Net Profit remained flat and immediately following the AGM.
Adjusted diluted EPS decreased by 3% due to the placing in June 2015.
The 2016 The ARR and this Statement will be results significantly exceeded both internal the subject of an advisory shareholder forecasts and external market expectations resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
against a backdrop of an ever evolving regulatory and tax landscape.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Given the strong financial and operational Implementation of results, the Remuneration Committee considered that the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy had exceeded both the challenging for 2017 financial targets and the other strategic objectives given to them at the start of The Company will be proposing changes 2016, including successful negotiations to the Remuneration Policy at a General with new and existing customers, Meeting immediately following the expanding the business in regulated forthcoming AGM in May 2017 from that and soon-to-be regulated markets, presented and approved at the AGM held strengthening the Groups regulatory in May 2014.
Full details of the proposed functions in light of increased regulation in changes will be set out in the notice to the UK and elsewhere and the continuing that General Meeting.
TheRemuneration integration of Markets Limited and our new Committee believes the proposed changes acquisitions during the year including BGT, will reinforce the Companys strategy to Quickspin, ECM and CFH.
Accordingly, create a business with significant scale in recognition of this strong performance, and a full product and service capability, the Committee has, consistent with our underpinned by a pre-eminent technology Remuneration Policy, awarded a bonus of platform.
We believe that an appropriate 200% of actual salary earned during the Remuneration Policy and incentive year to the CEO and 150% of actual salary framework can support the Companys earned during the year to the former CFO.
strategy in the current economic Ron Hoffman served as CFO throughout environment and help to retain and 2016 until he stepped down in January motivate our management team in 2017.
The Committee is very comfortable order to assist in driving strong returns that this level of bonus reflects the delivery for our shareholders.
of superior financial performance together with the strong personal performance of The Remuneration Committee encourages the Executive Directors during 2016. dialogue with the Companys shareholders Further details of the bonuses are set and will discuss any proposed changes to out in the ARR.
our policy with major institutional investors ahead of the 2017 AGM.
The Committee As outlined in our Annual Report for 2015, and I hope we can count on your continued the Remuneration Committee considered support at the 2017 AGM and at the the position of grants to Executive Directors General Meeting to be held immediately pursuant to the Groups Long Term after this.
Incentive Plan 2012 and made grants to them in December 2016.
Further details John Jackson of the grants are set out in the ARR.
No On behalf of the Remuneration Committee LTIP awards vested by reference to performance in 2016 as the first awards 22 February 2017 under the LTIP were only granted in 2015.
The Committee is satisfied that the total remuneration of the Executive Directors is reasonable in the context of performance delivered and is below the total remuneration delivered in comparable businesses in the Gaming sector.
Ron Hoffman stepped down as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017 and was replaced in both roles by Andrew Smith with effect from the same date.
