Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Directors governance report Claire Milne was appointed as a The Companys auditor, BDO LLP, is Introduction Non-executive Director on 8 July 2016. required to review whether the above Claire is a recognised expert in eGaming statement reflects the Companys Responsibility for corporate governance lies with the Board, which is committed and technology law and regulation, with compliance with the Code by the Listing 20 years experience advising gaming and Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable financial services clients as an in-house report if it does not reflect such compliance.
and private practice lawyer and was, at the No such negative report has been made.
The report which follows explains our most important governance time of her appointment, and continues to be, a Partner and Team Leader within The Board is accountable to the Companys processes and how they support the Groups business.
In particular, we the Intellectual Property and Science and shareholders for good governance and the Technology teams for Appleby Isle of Man statement set out below describes how the have applied the principles of good governance advocated by the UK LLC the Firm.
The Firm has provided, Group applies the principles identified in and continues to provide, regulatory the Code.
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code applied to Playtech throughout and legal advice to the Company from time to time, however, given the overall the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
A copy of the Code is available at size of the Firm and the relatively small scale of fees received, this relationship www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance UK-Corporatewas not considered to impact on her independence.
In addition, in order to Governance-Code.
reinforce her independence, it was agreed that following her appointment, Claire would Compliance statement not be involved in the provision of advice by the Firm to the Group, her remuneration We continued to make improvements during the year both to our Board structure from the Firm would not be linked, directly or indirectly, to the receipt of fees from and our governance procedures and I am delighted to be able to report that it is the the Group, and that any potential residual conflicts will be managed carefully.
view of the Board that the Company has been fully compliant with the principles of the Code during 2016 save in relation to C. 3.1 of the Code.
As regards C. 3.1 of the Code and, as noted in last years report, the Board reviewed the position during the course of the year and following the appointment of John Jackson as a Non-executive Director in January 2016, the Chairman stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee in February 2016.
The Committee now consists of four independent Non-executive Directors.
60 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors governance report continued The Non-executive Directors are all Board operation The Board considered by the Board to be independent The roles of the Chairman Alan Jackson of management and free of any relationship and the Chief Executive Officer Mor Composition which could materially interfere with the Weizer are separated, clearly defined As at 31 December 2016, the Board exercise of their independent judgement, and their respective responsibilities are comprised the Non-executive Chairman, as explained above.
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and four independent The Company Secretary acts as secretary Chairman Non-executive Directors.
The list of to the Board and its Committees and his Overall effectiveness of the running Directors holding office during the year to appointment and removal is a matter for the of the Board: 31 December 2016 and their responsibilities Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary Ensuring the Board as a whole plays are set out on pages 56 to 57. is a member of the Groups management a full part in the development and team and all the Directors have access to determination of the Groups strategic With the exception of Claire Milne who was his advice and services.
objectives: appointed as a Non-executive Director in Keeping the other Directors informed July 2016, the Directors served throughout of shareholders attitudes towards the financial year.
the Company: Safeguarding the good reputation John Jackson was appointed as a of the Company and representing Non-executive Director on 1 January 2016. it both externally and internally: Acting as the guardian of the Boards Ron Hoffman stepped down as an decision-making processes: and Executive Director and Chief Financial Promoting the highest standards Officer on 10 January 2017. of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company Andrew Smith was appointed as an and particularly at Board level.
Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017.
Chief Executive Officer Executive leadership of the Companys Directors name Title business on a day-to-day basis: Developing the overall commercial Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman objectives of the Group and proposing and developing the strategy of the Group Mor Weizer Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer in conjunction with the Board as a whole: Andrew Smith Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer Responsibility, together with his senior appointed on 10 January 2017 management team, for the execution of the Groups strategy and implementation Andrew Thomas Non-executive Senior Independent Director of Board decisions: Recommendations on senior Paul Hewitt Non-executive Director appointments and development John Jackson Non-executive Director appointed on 1 January 2016 of the management team: and Ensuring that the affairs of the Claire Milne Non-executive Director appointed on 8 July 2016 Group are conducted with the highest standards of integrity, probity and Ron Hoffman Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer corporate governance.
stepped down on 10 January 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Matters considered by the Board in 2016 Month Material matters considered January Review of operations Appointment of John Jackson as a Non-executive Director Budget approval February Review of the 2015 financial results and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015 Consideration of a final dividend Review of merger & acquisition opportunities March Review of operations Markets Ltd. Review of merger & acquisition opportunities Consideration of forthcoming regulatory changes in key markets April Review of Asian markets Review of operations Regulatory Affairs and Compliance May Three-year Strategic Plan Prepare for AGM Consideration of proposed acquisition of BGT Review of Legal Report Approval of Quickspin acquisition June Review of Operations Markets Ltd. Acquisition of BGT Review of Investor Relations report Review of new Market Abuse Regulations August Ratification of Clare Milnes appointment as a Non-executive Director Review of interim results Consideration of interim dividend Review of Legal & Compliance October Appointment of General Counsel Consideration of proposal to acquire CFH Review of operations November Approval of CFH acquisition Review of HR Board evaluation December Share buyback Board evaluation 62 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors governance report continued In addition to receiving reports from the How the Board Responsibility Boards Committees, reviewing the financial functions and operational performance of the Group and delegation and receiving regular reports on M&A, In accordance with the Code, the Board The Chairman is primarily responsible legal, regulatory and investor relations is collectively responsible for the longfor the efficient functioning of the Board.
matters at the Board meetings, the other term success of the Company.
The Board He ensures that all Directors receive key matters considered by the Board provides entrepreneurial leadership for the sufficient relevant information on financial, during 2016 are set out in the table Company within a framework of prudent business and corporate issues prior to on page 61. and effective controls that enable risk to be meetings.
The Chief Executive Officers assessed and managed.
The Board sets responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the Board meetings are generally held the Companys strategic aims, and ensures Groups business and implementing Group at the registered office of the Company that the necessary resources are in place strategy.
Regular interaction between the on the Isle of Man, although during the for the Company to meet its objectives and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer year a meeting was held in each of reviews management performance.
between meetings ensures the Board Jersey and Cyprus.
remains fully informed of developments The Board meets regularly and frequently, in the business at all times.
Directors are provided with comprehensive with nine meetings scheduled and held in background information for each meeting 2016.
During the year, it was also necessary There remains in place a formal schedule and all Directors were available to for the Board to hold one unscheduled of matters specifically reserved for Board participate fully and on an informed basis Board meeting by telephone in accordance consideration and approval, which includes in Board decisions.
In addition, certain with the articles of association, in the matters set out below: members of the senior management team connection with the share buyback including the Chief Operating Officer, the programme announced in December 2016.
Approval of the Groups long-term General Counsel, the Head of Regulatory objectives and commercial strategy: and Compliance and the Head of Investor During the year, the Chairman met Approval of the annual operating and Relations are invited to attend the whole or the other Non-executive Directors capital expenditure budgets and any parts of the meetings to deliver their reports in the absence of the Executive Directors changes to them: on the business.
Any specific actions to re-confirm and take account of their Major investments or capital projects: arising during meetings are agreed by views.
All Non-executive Directors have The extension of the Groups the Board and a comprehensive follow-up sufficient time to fulfil their commitments activities into any new business or procedure ensures their completion.
geographic areas, or to cease any material operations: Details of the attendance of the Directors Changes in the Companys capital at meetings of the Board and its structure or management and Committees are set out in the table below.
control structure: Number of meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk Alan Jackson 10 of 10 1 of 4 8 of 8 2 of 2 4 of 4 Mor Weizer 10 of 10 Ron Hoffman 9 of 10 Claire Milne 4 of 10 2 of 4 4 of 8 0 of 2 2 of 4 John Jackson 10 of 10 4 of 4 8 of 8 2 of 2 4 of 4 Andrew Thomas 10 of 10 4 of 4 8 of 8 2 of 2 4 of 4 Paul Hewitt 10 of 10 4 of 4 8 of 8 2 of 2 4 of 4 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Approval of the Annual Report and The Audit Committees report is set out In addition, PwC LLP, in their capacity as Accounts, preliminary and half-yearly on pages 67 to 69 and details the Audit providers of co-sourced internal audit financial statements: interim management Committees membership, activities services, and members of the Groups statements and announcements during the year, significant issues that senior management including the Chief regarding dividends: it considered in relation to the financial Security Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, Approval of treasury policies, including statements and how those issues were Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating foreign currency exposures and use addressed.
The report also contains Officer may be invited to attend meetings of financial derivatives: an explanation of how the Committee to present matters or for the Committee Ensuring the maintenance of a sound assessed the effectiveness of the to have the benefit of their experience.
system of internal control and external audit process and the approach risk management: taken in relation to the appointment or The primary responsibilities delegated to, Entering into agreements that are reappointment of the auditors.
and discharged by, the Committee include: not in the ordinary course of business or material strategically or by reason Review managements identification and Remuneration of their size: mitigation of key risks to the achievement Committee Changes to the size, composition of the Companys objectives: or structure of the Board and its Monitor incidents and remedial activity: The Remuneration Committee is Committees: and Agree and monitor the risk assessment responsible for making recommendations Corporate governance matters.
programme including, in particular, to the Board on remuneration policy for the changes to the regulation of online Chairman, Executive Directors and senior In addition, the Board has adopted a formal gambling and the assessment of management.
delegation of authorities memorandum licensees suitability: which sets out levels of authority for Agree on behalf of the Board and The Directors Remuneration Report is employees in the business.
continually review a risk management set out on pages 70 to 85 and contains strategy and relevant policies for the details the Remuneration Committees The Board has delegated certain of its Group, including the employee code of membership, activities during the year and responsibilities to a number of Committees conduct, anti-bribery policy, anti-money the policy on remuneration.
The Chairman of the Board to assist in the discharge of its laundering policy and wider social of the Remuneration Committee attends the duties.
The principal Committees currently responsibility issues: Annual General Meeting to respond to any are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Satisfy itself and report to the Board questions that shareholders might raise on Committee, the Risk & Compliance that the structures, processes and the Remuneration Committees activities.
Committee and the Nominations responsibilities for identifying and Committee.
The minutes of each of these managing risks are adequate: and Committees are circulated to and reviewed Risk & Compliance Monitor and procure ongoing by their members.
The Company Secretary compliance with the conditions of the Committee is secretary to each of these Committees.
regulatory licences held by the Group.
The terms of reference for each of the Under the Code, the Board is responsible Committees are available to view on the for determining the nature and extent of Companys website www.
the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board should maintain a sound system Audit Committee of risk management and internal control systems Main Principle C. 2.
The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective governance over The Risk & Compliance Committee is the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of related chaired by Paul Hewitt.
The other members of the Committee are Alan Jackson Nondisclosures, the performance of both the internal and external audit function, and the executive Chairman, Andrew Thomas Non-executive Director, John Jackson management of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and Non-executive Director and Claire Milne Non-executive Director.
Ian Ince Head of related compliance activities.
Regulatory and Compliance and Robert Penfold Head of Internal Audit attend the Committee.
The Company Secretary, Brian Moore, is secretary to the Committee.
64 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors governance report continued The Risk & Compliance Committee met A table setting out the principal significant The Nominations Committee has not formally four times during the year and in risks identified by the Group including set itself any formal targets for diversity, addition held a number of conference calls with the oversight and input of the Risk & including gender, and believes that throughout the year, and a summary of the Compliance Committee and the mitigating appointments should be based on merit, key matters considered by the Committee actions that have been undertaken by the compared against objective criteria, with during 2016 are set out below: Group in relation to these is set out on the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board pages 44 to 47 of this report.
has the right skills, knowledge and Monitor the regulatory position in a experience that enable it to discharge number of jurisdictions including those its responsibilities properly.
Nominations Committee which are of relative importance to the Group financially and those where The Nominations Committee meets on an The Board is required by the Code to changes may represent a risk or establish a Nominations Committee as-needed basis.
Two formal meetings opportunity for the Group: were held in 2016.
The meetings focused which should lead the process for Board Consider the costs and regulatory appointments and make recommendations on the consideration of candidates for the requirements for the Group to seek appointment of additional Non-executive for appointments to the Board.
A majority relevant licences in newly regulating of members of the Nominations Committee Directors that led, after a process involving markets: the review of a number of potential should be independent Non-executive Applications by or on behalf of the Directors.
The Nominations Committees candidates, to the appointment of Claire Group for licences in existing or newly Milne in July 2016.
No external search key objective is to ensure that the Board regulated markets: comprises individuals with the necessary consultancy was used in the appointment Monitor developments in relation to of Claire Milne: however a list of candidates skills, knowledge and experience to changes in the regulatory regime in the ensure that it is effective in discharging from a range of backgrounds was prepared United Kingdom and receiving reports in and the Nominations Committee agreed a its responsibilities.
relation to the likely impact on the Group shortlist to be considered.
The Nominations and the need for entities within the Committee went on to recommend The Nominations Committee comprises Group to apply for licences: Alan Jackson Chairman, Andrew Thomas, Claire Milnes appointment as a NonConsider the overall effectiveness executive Director of the Company having Paul Hewitt, John Jackson and Claire Milne.
of the compliance strategy and the considered in detail her skills, knowledge regulatory risks to the Groups operations and experience particularly with regard The Nominations Committee reviews the and revenues: structure, size and composition of the to eGaming and technology law and Receive and consider reports on regulation.
Claire Milne will formally stand Board and its Committees and makes discussions with, and the results of audits recommendations with regard to any for election at the next Annual General by regulators: Meeting to be held on 17 May 2017. changes considered necessary in the Monitoring compliance with regulatory identification and nomination of new licences held in all jurisdictions and Directors, the reappointment of existing Disclosure Committee adapting procedures, products and Directors and appointment of members to technology as appropriate: the Boards Committees.
It also assesses The Disclosure Committee ensures Review reports by PwC as external the roles of the existing Directors in accuracy and timeliness of public advisers on risk management: office to ensure that there continues to announcements of the Company and consideration of the risks identified be a balanced Board in terms of skills, monitors the Companys obligations from the Groups risk register and of the knowledge, experience and diversity.
under the Listing Rules and Disclosure effectiveness of actions taken to mitigate The Nominations Committee reviews the and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing such risks: and senior leadership needs of the Group Authority.
Meetings are held as required.
Consideration of the key risks associated to enable it to compete effectively in At the date of this report the Disclosure with the Financials division.
The Nominations Committee comprises Andrew Thomas Committee also advises the Board on Chairman of the Audit Committee, Andrew The Committee has been kept informed succession planning for Executive Director Smith Chief Financial Officer, Alex Latner of any changes to the regulatory position appointments although the Board itself is General Counsel and Brian Moore in any significant jurisdiction where the responsible for succession generally.
Group, through its licensees, and Financials division, may be exposed and updated on progress in relation to agreed action items on a regular basis.
The Committee can also convene meetings on a more frequent basis or as when matters arise, if it is determined that enhanced monitoring of a specific risk is warranted.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Notwithstanding the provisions of the Management Evaluation articles of association, the Board has Committee decided to comply with the Code The Board is committed to an ongoing requirements that Directors of companies evaluation process of itself and its The senior management committee is the in the FTSE 250 Index submit themselves Committees to assess their performance and key management committee for the Group.
Therefore, all identify areas in which their effectiveness, The standing members of the Committee Directors are seeking their reappointment policies and processes might be enhanced.
are Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer, at this years AGM.
Alan Jackson, in discussion with the Senior Andrew Smith Chief Financial Officer, Non-executive Director, undertook a review Shimon Akad Chief Operating Officer, The Board has collectively agreed that of the performance of individual Directors.
Uri Levy VP Business Development, Ian the Directors proposed for re-election Andrew Thomas as Senior Non-executive Ince Head of Regulatory and Compliance, at this years AGM have made significant Director considered the performance of Mr Brian Moore Company Secretary and Alex contributions to the business since their Jackson taking into account the views of the Latner General Counsel.
Other members last re-election and each has a key role Executive Directors.
There were no material of senior management are invited to the to play in the formulation of the Groups areas of concern highlighted and the main Committee as and when required.
outcome of the evaluation this year was to Committee considers and discusses plans shape and define the Boards objectives for and recommendations coming from the In certain circumstances, Directors are the coming year, continuing the focus on operational side of the business and from entitled to seek independent professional Group strategy and ensuring the structures, the various product verticals, in the light the advice under an agreed Board procedure, capabilities and reporting are in place to Groups strategy and capital expenditure which would then be organised by the achieve the Boards goals.
and investment budgets, including the Company Secretary, and in this regard the implications of those plans in areas such as Company would meet their reasonable A review of the Boards effectiveness resources, budget, legal and compliance.
This review The Committee either approves the plans was carried out by Independent Audit or as necessary refers the proposal for Limited, using their Thinking Board online formal Board review and approval in Balance of the Board assessment service.
Independent Audit accordance with the Companys formal The Board comprises individuals with Limited have no other connection to the matters reserved for the Board.
wide business experience gained in Company and are considered by the Board various industry sectors related to the to be independent.
The Board is in the Board tenure Groups current business and it is the process of considering the findings from intention of the Board to ensure that this review and will continue to adopt and In accordance with the Companys the balance of the Directors reflects implement plans to further develop the articles of association, every new Director the changing needs of the business.
effectiveness of the Board during 2017. appointed in the year is required to stand for re-election by shareholders at the The Board considers that it is of a size Newly appointed Directors can expect Annual General Meeting AGM next and has the balance of skills, knowledge, a detailed and systematic induction on following their appointment.
Also, under experience and independence that joining the Board.
They meet various the articles of association, at each AGM is appropriate for the Groups current members of senior management and one-third of the Directors excluding any business.
While not having a specific familiarise themselves with all core Director who has been appointed by the policy regarding the constitution and aspects of the Groups operations.
On Board since the previous AGM or, if their balance of the Board, potential new request, meetings can be arranged with number is not an integral multiple of three, Directors are considered on their own major shareholders.
Members of senior the number nearest to one-third but not merits with regard to their skills, knowledge, management are invited to attend Board exceeding one-third shall retire from office experience and credentials.
meetings from time to time to present on but so that if there are fewer than three specific areas of the Groups business.
Directors who are subject to retirement by The Non-executive Directors continue rotation under the articles one shall retire.
to contribute their considerable collective experience and wide-ranging skills to the Board and provide a valuable independent perspective: where necessary constructively challenging proposals, policy and practices of executive management.
In addition, they help formulate the Groups strategy.
66 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors governance report continued On 2 December 2016, the Company Relationship with Investor relations and and Brickington entered into a variation shareholders to the relationship agreement the communications Relationship Agreement, whereby Primary responsibility for effective The Company has well-established Investor the rights afforded to Playtech in the communication with shareholders lies Relations IR processes, which support a Relationship Agreement will remain in with the Chairman, but all the Companys structured programme of communications place for so long as Brickingtons holding Directors are available to meet with with existing and potential investors and together with its associates remains at shareholders throughout the year.
Executive Directors and members at least 15% of the issued share capital.
Jackson, Mor Weizer and Ron Hoffman of the IR team participated in a number As Brickingtons shareholding is now met with a number of shareholders of investor events, attending industry below 30% of the issued share capital, to discuss the Companys business conferences and regularly meet or are it would no longer have the power to strategy throughout the year.
The in contact with existing and potential nominate two Non-executive Directors Executive Directors prepare a general institutional investors from around the of the Company.
presentation for analysts and institutional world, ensuring that Group performance shareholders following the interim and and strategy is effectively communicated, The Board believes that the provisions full-year announcements.
Details of within regulatory constraints.
Other of the Relationship Agreement provides these presentations together with the representatives of the Board and senior reassurance that Brickington will not seek Groups financial statements and other management meet with investors from time to exercise its shareholding capriciously announcements can be found on the to time.
The Head of IR provides regular and re-enforces the independence investor relations section of the Companys reports to the Board on related matters, of the Company.
Further presentations are also issues of concern to investors, and analysts prepared following significant acquisitions views and opinions.
The Board confirms that, during 2016: and whenever the Board considers it beneficial to shareholders to do so.
Regular Whenever required, the Executive The Company has complied with the meetings with shareholders and potential Directors and the Chairman communicate independence provisions included shareholders are also held by the Head of with our joint brokers Canaccord Genuity in the Relationship Agreement: Investor Relations, and in conjunction with and Goodbody to confirm shareholder So far as the Company is aware, the either the Chief Executive Officer or the sentiment and to consult on governance independence provisions included in Chief Financial Officer.
the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by Brickington and its The Company endeavours to answer all During 2016, 36 regulatory announcements associates: and queries raised by shareholders promptly.
were released informing the market of So far as the Company is aware, the acquisitions, corporate actions, important procurement obligations included in The Companys largest shareholder is customer contracts, financial results, the Relationship Agreement, have been Brickington Trading Limited Brickington.
the results of Annual General Meetings complied with by Brickington and its Brickington is a wholly owned subsidiary and Board changes.
of a trust, the ultimate beneficiary of announcements, together with other IR which is Teddy Sagi, one of the Groups information and documents, are available Separately, Mr Sagi entered into an founders.
In connection with the Companys on the Group website www.
agreement with the Company in 2012 premium listing on the main market of the pursuant to which he will, as and when London Stock Exchange, the Company requested to do so by the Board, provide Summary and Brickington entered into a relationship advisory services to the Company for a agreement, pursuant to which Brickington In presenting this report, and having nominal fee of 1 per annum until either has agreed that: i it will vote its shares monitored, reviewed or approved all Mr Sagi ceases to be interested whether in such a manner so as to procure that shareholder communications in 2016 and legally or beneficially in any ordinary each member of the Group is capable of since the end of the financial year, the shares or either party terminates the carrying on its business independently of Board is confident that it has presented a agreement following its fifth anniversary, Brickington and its associates: and ii it balanced and understandable assessment whichever is the earlier.
During the year, will not exercise any of the voting rights of the Companys position and prospects.
the Company has sought advisory services attaching to its shares in such a manner on occasion in relation to certain significant so as to procure any amendment to the Alan Jackson strategic matters.
articles of association which would be Chairman inconsistent with, undermine or breach Shareholders are encouraged to participate any of the provisions of the relationship 22 February 2017 in the Companys AGM, at which the agreement.
Brickington also agreed that all Chairman will present the key highlights of transactions and relationships between it the Groups performance.
The Board will be or any of its associates and the Company available at the AGM to answer questions will be on arms length terms and on a from shareholders.
