Report on Corporate Governance The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the The Board considers for the year under review that the governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing Directors, Board and Company have complied with the Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Code except as noted below: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the as all Directors are non-executive and day-to-day UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the management has been contracted to third parties FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
uk the Company does not have a separate role for a The Association of Investment Companies AIC Chief Executive from that of Chairman of the Board: publishes a Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code as there are no executive Directors or employees it and a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment does not comply with the UK Code in respect of Companies AIC Guide.
In March 2015 the AIC executive directors remuneration: and published a revised AIC Code and AIC Guide to reflect the Company does not have an internal audit function changes made to the UK Code in September 2014.
In line as it relies on the systems of control operated by with the UK Code the revised AIC Code and AIC Guide thirdparty suppliers in particular those of the apply to accounting periods beginning on or after Investment Manager.
The Board monitors these 1 October 2014. systems of internal control to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
The Financial Reporting Council has confirmed that by following the AIC Code and the AIC Guide, boards of For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, as explained in investment companies will meet their obligations in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed UK Listing Rules.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are The AIC Code and AIC Guide address the principles set outsourced to third parties.
out in the UK Code as well as additional principles and recommendations on issues that are specific to The report on corporate governance describes how the investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be viewed at principles of the AIC Code have been applied.
co. uk Application of the AIC Codes Principles Statement of Compliance The Board attaches great importance to the matters The Board has considered the principles and contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the requirements throughout the year under review.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Code, The Board has considered the principles and addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the as well as setting out additional principles and AIC Guide and the Board believes that the Companys recommendations on issues that are of specific current practices are consistent in all material relevance to the Company.
respects with the principles of the AIC Code.
Where The Board considers that reporting against the principles non-compliance occurs, an explanation has been and recommendations of the AIC Code, by reference to provided.
The Board will continue to observe the the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will principles and recommendations set out in the AIC provide better information for shareholders.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 59 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued experience of the Company, industry and the markets is of Directors and Board great benefit to shareholders.
The Board is of the opinion I In nd fide ep pe en nd fide enc nce e a an nd d c co omp mpo os si it ti io on n that long service does not necessarily compromise the The Directors of the Company who were in office during independence or contribution of Directors of investment the year and up to the date of signing of the financial trusts where continuity and experience can significantly statements and given on pages 52 and 53. benefit a board, a view supported by the AIC.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall The Boards policy is to ensure that a balance of skills and management of the Companys affairs and currently experience is maintained and regularly refreshed.
consists of six Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for the All the Directors, with the exception of Mr Ashfordcomposition of the Board and it considers not only the Russell, were considered independent of the Investment existing Board but also if further appointments should be Manager and had no relationship or conflicts which were made.
The Nomination Committee seeks to balance the time likely to affect their independent judgment.
Consequently required, the skills, knowledge and experience of individual the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment Directors to form an effective and efficient Board.
Manager and the Board considers that its overall composition is adequate for the effective governance of When considering new appointments the Nomination the Company.
Committee seeks to have a list of candidates for the whole Board to consider that will enhance the Board or The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the replace and refresh skills lost through a Director leaving Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its the Board.
As such the Board, while it has not set role.
The Chairman works with the Company Secretary specific targets, will have regard to the benefits of for setting the Boards agenda and for balancing the diversity on the Board, including gender, when further issues presented to each meeting.
Open and frank debate appointments are considered.
is encouraged at each Board meeting and the Chairman keeps in touch with the Company Secretary and other The work of the Nomination Committee is described on Directors between Board meetings.
The Chairman was independent on his appointment E El le ec ct ti io on a n an nd r d re et ti ir re em me en nt of D t of Di ir re ec ct to or rs at t s at th he A e AG GM M asChairman and continues to meet the criteria The Articles of Association the Articles govern the forindependence.
appointment, re-election and removal of a Director.
Each Director has different qualities and areas of The Articles permit the Board to appoint further expertise on which they may lead where issues arise.
Directors without shareholder approval but subject to The Directors are listed on pages 52 and 53 along with any such Directors standing for election by shareholders their biographical details which demonstrate the breadth at the first AGM following their appointment.
of investment, commercial and professional experience All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
years and are subject to re-election by shareholders at a general meeting in accordance with the Articles.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of The Articles and the Companies Act provide for the the corporate company secretary through its appointed removal of a Director.
representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that The Articles also state that any Director who applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The has served for over nine years should stand for Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, annual re-election.
Any Director who has served over nine years and stands S Suc ucc ce es ssio sion n p pl lann anni in ng g an and d d di iv ver ersi sit ty y for re-election due to length of service is carefully and While the Board recognises the value of progressive rigorously assessed by the Nomination Committee to refreshing of and succession planning for company ensure that the Director continues to make a valuable boards, it is conscious of the need to maintain continuity contribution to the Board and remains independent in and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient character and judgement.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 60 Notwithstanding the provisos of the Articles, the UK Code Each Director has provided the Company with a statement requires all directors of FTSE350 companies to retire of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of annually.
Therefore all the Directors who were elected at interest.
These have been approved by the Board and last years AGM will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, recorded in a register.
The Board may impose conditions being eligible, offer themselves for re-election with the on authorising any conflict or potential conflict situations.
exception of Rupert Montagu who is retiring.
Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their obligations to notify any changes to their circumstances The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination which would impact on the notified conflicts or potential Committee, supports each of the Directors standing conflicts and obtain approval before entering into any forre-election.
situation which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict with the interests of the Company.
D Di ir re ec cto tor rs s i int nte er re es st ts s Mr Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP and a No Director has declared receipt of any benefits other Non-executive Director and shareholder in Polar Capital than his emoluments in his capacity as a Director of Holdings plc, the ultimate holding company of Polar Capital the Company.
LLP and as such he has an interest in the investment Only Directors not involved in the conflict or potential management contract.
He is therefore not considered to be conflict participate in the authorisation process.
However, the Board values the in deciding whether to authorise a situation take into fact that Mr Ashford-Russell, although no longer actively account their duty to promote the Companys success.
involved in the day to day management of the portfolio, serves as a Director of the Company and gives the The Board reviews annually the register of conflicts, Directors and shareholders the benefit of his experience anyconditions imposed on such conflicts or potential and knowledge.
conflicts and the operation of the notification and authorisation process.
They conducted the annual No Director, except Mr Ashford-Russell, has any links review as part of the processes for preparing the annual with the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There report and concluded that the process has operated were no other contracts during or at the end of the year in effectively since its introduction.
which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to Except as disclosed above in relation to Mr Ashfordthe Companys business.
Russells interest in the contract with Polar Capital LLP there were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the the year in which a Director is or was interested and Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
which is or was significant in relation to the Companys C Co on nf fl li ic ct ts o s of i f in nt te er re es st ts s business or to the Director.
Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they Di Dir re ec ct to or rs s pr pro of fe es ss si io on na al l d fide eve velo lopme pmen nt t have or could have a conflict of interest or possible When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered an conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Companys induction course provided by the Investment Manager.
Articles contain provisions to permit the Board to Directors are welcome to visit the Investment Manager at authorise conflicts or potential conflicts.
any time to receive an update on any aspect of particular The Board has always had in place policies to govern interest or a general refresher on the operations of the situations where a potential conflict of interests may Investment Manager.
Directors are also provided on a arise, in particular where a Director is also a director of regular basis with key information on the Companys a company in which the Company invests or may invest.
policies, regulatory and statutory obligations and internal Where such a situation arises, these Directors are controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are excluded from any discussions or decisions relating to advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly investments in their respective companies.
participate in professional and industry seminars and may use the online training modules of the Investment Manager to ensure they maintain their knowledge.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 61 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued A strategy board meeting is held each year where The Boards Role and Responsibilities investment ideas are discussed.
The Board meets regularly and six scheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the stewardship of the Through this process the Board supervises the Company and other matters.
There is a formal schedule of management of the investment portfolio, the work of the matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board.
Investment Manager, the risks to which the Company is exposed and their mitigation, and the quality of services During the course of the year the Board has considered received by the Company.
the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and guidelines, portfolio performance, the preparation and If additional meetings of the Board are required these are review of financial statements, approval of borrowing arranged as required.
limits within which the Investment Manager has discretion to act, and shareholder issues including The Board has delegated to a number of standing communications and investor relations.
The level of share committees specific remits for consideration and price discount or premium to Net Asset Value together recommendation but the final responsibility in these with policies for re-purchase or issuance of new shares areas remains with the Board.
including the use of treasury shares are kept under Should it be necessary, a procedure has been adopted review along with matters affecting the industry and the for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take evaluation of third party service providers.
independent professional advice at the expense of the The Board has also spent considerable time over the year Company.
No such advice has been sought during the considering and reviewing regulatory changes that have past year.
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the financial year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below.
1 M 1 Ma ay 2 y 20 01 15 t 5 to 3 o 30 A 0 Ap pr ri il 2 l 20 01 16 6 Board & Management Strategy Audit Engagement Nomination AGM 1 Number of Meetings 6 2 1 1 1 2 Michael Moule 5 6 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Brian Ashford-Russell 6 6 1 1 Sarah Bates 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Charlotta Ginman 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 David Gamble 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Peter Hames 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Rupert Montagu 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Notes 1 There are usually three meetings of the Audit Committee and one of the Nomination Committee in a financial year, however due to the time of the meetings of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee in 2016, one Audit Committee and one Nomination Committee meeting fall outside the reporting year.
2 Michael Moule missed one Board Meeting and one Audit Committee meeting due to being summoned for jury service.
Michael Moule attends the AuditCommittee by invitation.
3 David Gamble was a director and Chair of the Audit Committee up to the conclusion of Annual General Meeting of the Company on 9 September 2015 when he retired.
A number of ad hoc special purpose Board and Committee meetings were held during the year for the approval of documents and approval of regulatory announcements all of which had been previously considered by the full Board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 62 become the SID and assume the chair of the Committee.
Senior Independent Director SID Mrs Ginman will join the Committee on 9 September 2016.
Mr Montagu was the Senior Independent Director during the year and he will be succeeded by Mr Hames at the The Committee meets at least annually and is conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 9 September responsiblefor recommending the framework for the 2016 when Mr Montagu retires.
The SID can be contacted remuneration of Directors.
The Committee reviews the via the Registered Office of the Company.
ongoing appropriateness of the remuneration policy andthe individual remuneration of Directors based on Board Committees their contributions.
The Board has created four standing committees whose terms are described below.
The Board also creates ad M Ma an nag age eme men nt t Eng Engag age eme men nt t C Co om mm mit itt te ee e hoc committees from time to time to enact or approve Mr Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the policies or actions agreed in principle by the whole Management Engagement Committee.
The terms of reference for each of the standing Non-executive Directors are members of the committees are available on the Companys website.
The work of the Committees is set out on pages The Committee considers any matter to do with the 67 to 71 for the Audit Committee, pages 72 to 75 for relationship with the Investment Manager, including the the Remuneration Committee and page 64 for the terms of the investment management agreement and its Nomination and Management Engagement Committees.
The Committee also has responsibility to conduct the annual review of the services A Aud udit it C Co om mm mit itt te ee e provided by the Investment Manager prior to making its Mrs Ginman succeeded Mr Gamble as Chairman of the recommendation to the Board, on the retention of the Audit Committee on 9 September 2015.
The Committee Investment Manager being in the interests of comprises all the independent Non-executive Directors shareholders.
This Committee meets at least annually except the Chairman of the Board who attends as and at such other times as may be necessary.
N No omi min na at tio ion n C Co om mmi mit tt te ee e The Committee has written terms of reference which Mr Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
All the independent NonGinman will be present at the AGM to deal with questions executive Directors are members of the Nomination relating to the financial statements.
The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible to the Board for the size and structure of the None of the members of the Audit Committee has any Board as well as for succession planning and the tenure involvement in the preparation of the financial statements policy for Directors.
of the Company, as this has been contracted to the Investment Manager.
Succession and new appointments Succession planning will be conducted using the The Board is satisfied that at least one of the Committees Boardsviews on diversity and to achieve a balance of members has recent and relevant financial experience skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The and the Committee as a whole has competence relevant Committee will make recommendations to the Board to the sector in which the Company operates.
when the further recruitment of Non-executive Directors The Audit Committee has direct access to the auditors is required.
and to the key senior staff of the Investment Manager and The Chairman does not participate in any discussion or it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board decision on his role or replacement.
which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
Once a decision has been made that additional Directors are to be recruited then candidates will be drawn from R Remu emun ner era at tio ion n C Co om mmi mit tt te ee e suggestions put forward by the use of external agencies.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by the SID, The final selection will be made by the full Board Mr Montagu, and comprises Mrs Bates and Mr Hames.
following recommendations by the Committee.
Following the retirement of Mr Montagu, Mr Hames will Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 63 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued Evaluation and performance The evaluation process was also used by the Committee to The Committee also reviews the performance of the Board carefully review and rigorously assess the contribution of as a whole and each individual Director.
Re-election as a each Director and their independence.
The performance of Director is not automatic and will followa process of the Chairman was also carried out by the committee led by evaluation of each Directors performance.
The Committee has determined that each Director acknowledges the rationale of the UKCorporate standing for re-election continued to offer relevant Governance Code for the rigorous review of Directors experience, effectively contributed to the operation of the serving over six years and annual re-appointment after Board and had demonstrated independent views on a nine years.
Nevertheless the Board shares the view of the range of subjects.
AIC that length of service will not necessarily compromise The Committee has also monitored progress against the the independence or contribution of directors of investment recommendations made from the last external review trusts where continuity and experience can significantly carried out in 2013 and the internal reviews carried out strengthen aboard.
since to ensure that progress is made against each of the recommendations for improvement or change.
The The Committee follows the recommended practice of Committee noted that satisfactory progress has been having an externally facilitated review every three years.
In achieved against all the major recommendations.
the in-between years the evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors is carried out by the It is expected that the next external review will take Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman placein 2019. uses a system that seeks the views of each Director by a questionnaire and interviews.
The Chairmans review is The Committee will lead the search for a new Nonconducted by the Senior Independent Director.
These executive Director following Mr Montagus decision to reviews are reported to the Nomination Committee.
A candidate specification will be drawn evaluating each Director, they are assessed on their up and it is expected that a specialist recruitment relevant experience, their strengths and weaknesses in consultant will be engaged to conduct the search and relation to the overall requirements of the Board and their provide the Committee with a long list of Candidates.
The commitment to the Company in terms of time by regular list will be considered by the Committee and selected attendance of Board meetings.
The process is constructed candidates will move forward to a short list which will to assess the contribution of individual Directors to the be presented to the entire Board for consideration overall operation of the Board and its Committees as well andinterview.
as to identify areas of improvement in the operation of the Board and its Committees.
Work of the Management Engagement Committee In the year to 30 April 2016 it has met once to consider the Work of the Nomination Committee services provided by the Investment Manager and terms of The Nomination Committee led by the Chairman carried the investment management agreement with a view to the out a formal review of each Directors performance, the continued appointment of the investment manager.
performance of each Board Committee and of the effectiveness of the whole Board.
The 2016 process The recommendation of the Board to continue with Polar involved selecting an external board evaluator based on Capital LLP on the terms agreed is set out on page 51. experience of providing such services to investment trusts Performance Evaluation Process and costs.
This process was led by the chairman following B Bo oa ar rd, d, Di Dir re ec ct to or rs s a and nd C Co om mm mit itt te ee es s presentations by a number of established providers and agreed by the full committee.
The Board through the Nomination Committee considers its own performance and that of the Directors.
The work Lintstock was appointed and has led the evaluation process of the Nomination Committee is reported separately.
through a range of questionnaires and separate interviews of the Directors culminating in a written report to the I Inv nve es st tm me en nt t Ma Man na ag ge er r Committee.
The Committee considered the findings of the The Management Engagement Committee is responsible report and in particular has noted that a generally for the terms of appointment of the Investment Manager favourable report was received but there were a number and it regularly reviews the terms of the contract.
The of minor improvements in some administrative aspects work of the Management Engagement Committee is that could be improved.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 64 The Board has contractually delegated the management Internal Controls of the portfolio to the Investment Manager.
It is the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys Investment Managers sole responsibility to take decisions system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness as to the purchase and sale of individual investments other and ensuring that risk management and control process than unquoted investments where the Board is consulted.
are embedded in the day to day operations which are TheInvestment Manager has responsibility for tactical operated or overseen by the Investment Manager.
gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within The Board through the Audit Committee has established theguidelines established and regularly reviewed by a process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and theBoard.
reviewing, and managing any principle risks faced by the The Investment Manager is responsible for providing or Company.
This is documented through the use of a Risk procuring accountancy services, company secretarial and Map which is subject to regular review by the Audit administrative services.
The Investment Manager also Committee and accords with the Guidance on Risk ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner all Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and relevant management, regulatory and financial Business Reporting issued in September 2014 by the information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager Financial Reporting Council.
As the Company has no attend Board meetings enabling the Directors to probe employees and its operational functions are carried out further on matters of concern or seek clarification on by third parties and the Audit Committee does not consider certain issues.
it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
The whole Board reviews the performance of the Contracts with suppliers are entered into after full Investment Manager at each Board meeting and the andproper consideration by the Board of the quality Companys performance against the market and a peer andcost of the services offered, including the control group of funds with similar investment objectives.
The systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs investment team provided by the Investment Manager, led of the Company.
by Ben Rogoff, has long experience of investment in technology.
In addition, the Investment Manager has other The Investment Manager has an internal control investment resources which support the investment team framework to provide reasonable but not absolute and experience in managing and administering other assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls investment trust companies.
operated on behalf of its clients.
The Investment Manager is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct O Ot th he er k r ke ey s y su up pp pl li ie er rs t s to t o th he C e Co om mp pa an ny y Authority and its compliance department monitors The Board also monitors directly or through the Investment compliance with the FCA rules.
Manager the performance of its other key service providers.
The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on The Board directly appointed HSBC Bank Plc as the operation of the controls which are embedded within Depositary.
The Depositary reports quarterly and the business of the Investment Manager and other third makes an annual presentation to the Board.
Controls and risk management covering The share registrars are directly appointed by the the risks identified, including financial, operational, Board and their performance is monitored by the compliance, safeguarding of assets, maintenance of proper Investment Manager.
Regular reports are received accounting records and the publication of reliable financial on their work.
information are monitored by a series of regular reports from the Investment Manager including risks not directly Other suppliers such as corporate brokers, printers, the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
website services and PR agents are monitored by the Investment Manager which reports to the Board on O Op pe er rat ati io on n specific tasks or generally when required.
The process was active throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
However, such a Accountability and Audit system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives the financial statements is set out on pages 76 and 77 and and can only provide reasonable and not absolute the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 78 to 82. assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 65 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued The Board in assessing the effectiveness of the shareholders who wish to raise matters either in person Companys internal controls has through the Audit or in writing.
The Chairman and Directors may be Committee received formal reports on the policies and contacted through the registered office of the Company.
procedures in operation and tests for the year ended Shareholders are kept informed by the publication of 31March 2016 from the Investment Manager with details annual and interim reports which include financial of any known internal control failures.
These reports are supplemented by the Manager has subsequently provided that there has been dailyrelease of the net asset value per share to the no material change to the control environment to the London Stock Exchange and the publication by the signing of these financial statements.
Investment Manager of a monthly factsheet.
All this The Board also considers reports operated by other third information together with the Investment Managers party suppliers and ad hoc reports from the Investment presentations are available from the Companys website Manager are supplied to the Board as required.
co. uk As reported in the Report of the Audit Committee, The Board is also keen that the AGM be a participative event members of the Audit Committee undertook a site visit for all shareholders who attend.
The Investment Managers to receive presentations on the work of the custodian, make a presentation and shareholders are encouraged to Depository, accounting and pricing of investments.
The Chairmen of the Board and of the Committees Audit Committee also examined the risks and controls attend the AGM and are available to respond to queries and operated by the Investment Manager when placing concerns from shareholders.
The Directors make investment trades with third parties.
themselves available after the AGM to meet shareholders.
The Investment Manager has delegated the provision of Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the proxy accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing to votes received are relayed to the meeting and HSBC Securities Services but remains responsible to the subsequently published on the Companys website.
Proxy Company for these functions and provides the Board with forms have a vote withheld option.
The Notice of Meeting information on these services.
sets out the business of the AGM together with the full text of any special resolutions.
The Board will engage with Based on the work of the Audit Committee and the shareholders on any matters where significant dissent is reviews of the reports received by the Audit Committee on shown at the AGM and following the AGM acknowledge behalf of the Board, the Board has concluded that there such dissent in its announcement of the results of the were no material control failures during the year and up AGM and disclose in the next annual report steps it has to the date of this report.
taken or will take to resolve the issue.
Relations with Shareholders The Company has made arrangements for investors The Board and the Investment Manager consider through the Alliance Savings Scheme to receive all maintaining good communications with shareholders and Company communications and have the ability to direct engaging with larger shareholders through meetings and the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made presentations a key priority.
arrangements with its registrar for shareholders, who own their shares direct rather than through a nominee or The Board regularly considers the share register of the share scheme, to view their account over the Internet at Company and receives regular reports from the www.
Other services are also available Investment Manager and its corporate broker on via this service.
meetings attended with shareholders and any concerns that are raised in such meetings.
The Board also reviews By order of the Board correspondence from shareholders and maintains regular contact with major shareholders.
Neil Taylor The Chairman writes each year to the largest Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited shareholders to enable them to raise any concerns direct Company Secretary with the Chairman and the Board without using the Investment Manager or Company Secretary as a conduit.
13 July 2016 The Chairman or other Directors are available to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 66
