Audit Committee Report The constitution and composition of the Audit Committee the consideration of reports from the Investment is given on page 63.
Mrs Ginman, was appointed to the Manager and auditors on the effectiveness of the system Audit Committee in 2015 and became its chairman on of internal financial controls including the Risk Map: and the retirement of Mr Gamble following the AGM on the going concern statement, longer-term viability 9September 2015. statement and the requirement that the annual report and financial statements when taken as a whole is fair, During the year under review the Committee was balanced and understandable.
comprised of all the independent Non-executive Directors with the exception of the Chairman of the Efficacy of Audit Process Board who attends by invitation.
The Audit Committee monitored and evaluated the The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the effectiveness of the auditors and any changes in the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience terms of their appointment based on an assessment of and the Audit Committee as a whole has competence their performance, qualification, knowledge, expertise relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
The auditors independence was also The experience of the members of the Committee can be considered along with other factors such as audit assessed from the Directors biographies set out on planning and interpretations of accounting standards.
This evaluation has been carried out throughout the year by meetings held with the auditors, by review of the audit  LLP PwC has been the process and by comments from the Investment Manager appointed auditors since 1996. and others involved in the audit process.
Meetings and work undertaken The auditors provided with an opportunity to address the Committee without the Investment Manager present to During the financial year ended 30 April 2016 the raise any concerns or discuss any matters relating to Committee met twice and once in May 2016 relating to the audit work and the cooperation of the Investment 2016 Audit matters, with all members attending each Manager and others in providing any information and the meeting, and considered the following matters: quality of that information including the timeliness in the scope of the annual audit and agreement with the responding to audit requests.
external auditors of the key areas of focus: As part of the year end audit the Committee considered the reports from the external auditors concerning their the level of fees paid to the auditors bearing in mind audit of the annual financial statements of the Company: the nature of the audit and the quality of services the performance of the external auditors and the level previously received.
of fees charged for their services: The Committee has been informed by the Financial the appropriateness and any changes to the accounting Reporting Council FRC that the FRCs Audit Quality policies of the Company including any judgements Review team had completed a review of the 2015 audit required by such policies and the reasonableness of such: carried out by  LLP.
The results the financial disclosures contained in the annual report of this review were discussed between the Audit and semi-annual report to shareholders: Committee Chairman and the audit partner at PwC and the policy for non-audit services which may be reported to the Committee to assist in the Committees provided by the auditors in line with the FRC guidance: assessment of the audit process.
There were no matters the extent of the non-audit services, the quality of such of any concern brought to the Committees attention.
work and the fees: Consideration of the Annual Report the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: and Financial Statements the appointment of the auditors and the need to put the The Committee performed this role through monitoring audit out for tender: the integrity of the financial statements of the Company the Risk Map covering the identification of new risks, and the system of accounting to ensure compliance with adjustments to existing risks and the mitigation and relevant and appropriate accounting standards.
controls in place to manage the principle risks: Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 67 3 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued The scope of the audit was agreed in advance with a focus on areas of audit risk and the appropriate level of audit materiality.
The auditors reported on the results of the audit work to the Committee and highlighted any issue which the audit work had discovered or the Committee had previously identified as significant or material in the context of the financial statements.
Significant Matters in Relation to the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 In addition to the matters considered by the Committee in forming its opinions on Going Concern and longer-term viability described below and in concluding that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee also considered the following matters in relation to the financial statements: Significant matter How the issue was addressed Valuation, existence and ownership The valuation is carried out in accordance with the accounting policy described of investments in Note 2.
The Depository has reported on its work and safe keeping of the companys investments.
Compliance with S1158 of the Consideration of compliance with the requirements of investment trust status Corporation Tax Act 2010 is carried out at each board meeting throughout the year.
There were no adverse matters brought to the Audit Committees attention in respect of the 2016 audit, which were material or significant or which should be brought to shareholders attention.
Conclusions in Respect of the Annual Consideration of the Semi-Annual Report Report and Financial Statements and Financial Statements The production and the audit of the Companys Annual The Committee considered and reviewed the semi-annual Report and Financial Statements is a comprehensive report and financial statements which are not audited or process requiring input from a number of different reviewed by the external auditors to ensure that they contributors.
In order to reach a conclusion that the reflected the accounting policies used in the annual Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, financial statements.
the Board has requested that the Committee advise on whether it considers these criteria satisfied.
In so doing Non-Audit Work the Committee has given consideration to the following: The Audit Committee has discussed the specific non-audit activities provided by the auditors to ensure that none of the comprehensive control framework over the these services would put the auditors in the position of production of the Annual Report, including the auditing their own work or threaten their independence.
verification processes in place to deal with the The Committee has also carried out a review of the factualcontent: non-audit services to satisfy itself that these are provided extensive levels of review are undertaken in the within the policy and have been delivered in an efficient and production process, by the Investment Manager cost effective way.
The Audit Committee believes the and the Committee: and objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained, the internal control environment as operated by the notwithstanding that non-audit work may be undertaken.
Investment Manager and other suppliers including any The Audit Committees policy on the provision of nonchecks and balances within those systems.
audit services by the auditors is to ensure that there is a As a result of the work performed, the Committee has clear separation of audit work and non-audit work and concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended that the cost of any non-audit work is justified and is not 30April 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and disproportionate to the audit fees to the extent that the understandable and provides the information necessary independence of the auditors would be compromised.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, This policy was further revised to take into account business model and strategy, and it has reported on these regulation developments and guidance.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 68 The Committee reviewed the non-audit work and Overview of Risk considered that PwC was an appropriate provider as The Board has ultimate responsibility for the this work related to the on-going VAT reclaim, which management of risk throughout the Company and has was launched as a class action by PwC, recovery of asked the Audit Committee to assist in maintaining an withholding taxes on certain overseas investments effective Internal Control environment.
and the provision of IXBRL tagging.
The Company has a long established Risk Map which These non-audit services are provided by the London and seeks to identify, monitor and control principle risks as Newcastle offices of PwC while the audit work is carried far as possible.
Over the year the Audit Committee has out by the Edinburgh office of PwC.
The fees paid for the undertaken a review of the Risk Map used by the Company taxation and Section 1158 advice services amounted to to identify the principle risks facing the business and 5,000 2015: 4,000. reviewed each risk as to it likelihood and impact.
The Committee also robustly considered the mitigating The fees paid to PwC in respect of the audit of the annual factors and controls to reduce the impact of such risks financial statements amounted to 31,250 2015: 30,000. as described on pages 46 to 49.
This process was active The Committee does not consider the provision of this throughout the year and permits the Risk Map to be non-audit work to the Company affects the independence monitored and kept relevant to reflect changes.
As part of the year end processes the Audit Committee also undertook a review of the effectiveness of the system Appointment of Auditors and Tenure of internal controls taking into account any issues that The Committee also considers by way of meetings and had arisen during the course of the year.
Representatives reports, the appointment, remuneration and work of of the Investment Manager reported to the Committee on theauditors.
the Internal controls operated by the Investment Manager and it also received internal control reports from other PwC have provided audit services to the Group from its key suppliers on the quality and effectiveness of the incorporation in 1996 to date.
The Audit Committee services provided to the Company.
decided last year and announced through their report that, PwC would not continue in their role as auditors Members of the Committee visited the Depository HSBC after 2017 when the current audit partner rotates.
The to better understand how the Depository performed its Committee has considered the tendering process and will oversight duties and also received presentations on the request expressions of interests from a number of audit services provided by HSBC to the Investment Manager firms.
The Committee will make a recommendation to the that were relevant to the Company.
The Committee full Board for the appointment of an audit firm later in also considered the oversight carried out by the 2016 with a view to the new auditors taking office Investment Manager.
following the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
The annual review of the Risk Map and the effectiveness There are no contractual obligations restricting the of the system of internal controls, taking into account choice of external auditors.
anyissues was conducted by the Audit Committee assisted by the Investment Manager as part of the year The Committee having considered the above factors end process for the preparation of the annual report.
consider it appropriate to recommend to the Board and There were no issues which arose during the course of shareholders that PwC be reappointed as auditors at the the year ended 30 April 2016 and up to the date of this AGM.
PwC have agreed to offer themselves for report which were considered significant.
reappointment as auditors in accordance with section 487 2 of the Companies Act 2006 and a resolution requesting approval of their reappointment and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be presented at the AGM.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 69 3 Directors Report A Au ud dit it C Comm ommit itt te ee e R Re ep por ort t c co on ntin tinu ue ed d The Audit Committee will actively continue to monitor the the performance of the Company, its peers and system of internal controls through the regular review of competitors, and views garnered from shareholders via the Risk Map and controls in order to provide assurance the Investment Manager and corporate stock broker on that they operate as intended.
any dissatisfaction with the Company that might lead to a vote against the continuation resolution: and The Audit Committee has also discussed with the the factors impacting the forthcoming year as set Investment Manager their whistleblowing policy, antiout in the Strategic Review Section, Comprising the bribery policy and the Modern Slavery Act controls and Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers monitoring to implement their policy across the main Report and the Strategic Report.
contractors which supply goods and services to the Investment Manager and the Company.
The financial position of the Company and its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Strategic The Audit Committee has also considered the policy Report and the Financial Statements.
Note 28 to the and controls used by the Investment Manager Financial Statements includes the Companys policies surrounding the use of brokerage commissions and process for managing its capital: its financial risk generated from transactions in the Companys portfolio management objectives: details of financial instruments and the obtaining of best execution on all transactions and hedging activities.
Exposure to credit risk and including any foreign exchange transactions.
Going Concern and Longer-Term Viability In light of the information provided to the Committee and The Audit Committee at the request of the Board has the assessment of the financial position of the Company the considered the ability of the Company to adopt the going Committee has recommended that a going concern basis concern basis for the preparation of the financial should be adopted by the Board for the preparation of the statements.
The Committee has considered the financial financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2016. position of the Company, its cash flows and it liquidity position.
The Committee has also considered in making Longer-Term Viability its assessment any material uncertainties and events The Board has also asked the Audit Committee to address that might cast significant doubt upon the Companys the requirement that a longer-term viability statement be ability to continue as a going concern.
This statement should take account of the Companys current position and the The Audit Committee has considered: principle risks as set out on pages 46 to 49 so that the Board may state that they have a reasonable expectation the ability of the Company to liquidate its portfolio: that the Company will be able to continue in operation the level of budgeted expenses and the exposure to andmeet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of currency and credit risk: their assessment.
the fact that the Company faces a continuation vote at the AGM in September 2020 but notes that under the To provide this assessment The Audit Committee has AIC SORP guidance that where shareholders have the considered the Companys financial position as described opportunity to vote in favour or against a company above to liquidate its portfolio and meet its expenses as continuing in existence it will normally be the case that they fall due: shareholders will have to vote in favour of a liquidation before it can occur.
It follows that, even if an the portfolio comprises of investments traded on major Investment Company is approaching a wind-up or international stock exchanges, there is a spread of continuation vote, and where shareholders have yet to investments by size of company.
The current portfolio vote on the issue, it will usually be more appropriate could be liquidated to the extent of 98% within 7 trading for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going days and there is no expectation that the nature of the concern basis whilst making the material uncertainties investments held within the portfolio will be materially disclosures set out in paragraph 3.9 of FRS 102: and different in future: that adoption of a non-going concern basis is expected to be a rare event: Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 70 the expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets and there are nocapital commitments foreseen which would alter that position: the Company has no employees except for the Non-executive Directors and consequently does not have redundancy or other employment related liabilities or responsibilities.
The Audit Committee as well as considering the principlerisks on pages 46 to 49 and the financial position of the Company as set out above, has also considered the following assumptions in considering the longer-term viability: it is reasonable to believe that if good performance is achieved over the period until the next continuation vote in 2020 the Company will pass the continue vote, however it is not possible to predict with any certainty the circumstances which will prevail in 2020 so far inadvance: technology will continue to be an investable sector of the international stock markets and that investors will still wish to have an exposure to such investments: closed ended investment trusts will continue to be wanted by investors: regulation will not increase to a level that makes the running of the Company uneconomical in comparison to other competitive products: the performance of the fund will continue to be satisfactory and should performance be less than the Board deem acceptable it has appropriate powers to replace the Investment Manager.
In light of these considerations the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that a statement on the Companys longer-term prospects to continue its operations and meet its expenses and liabilities as they fall due over the 4 years to the next continuation vote isreasonable.
Charlotta Ginman Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 July 2016 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 71
