Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN During the year the Board has placed DEAR SHAREHOLDER much focus on the strategic development I am pleased to present the Companys of the Group, in light of which Corporate Governance report for the year presentations by the Groups financial ended 31 December 2016, on behalf of advisors and brokers and the annual the Board.
strategy day proved very valuable.
This year has seen a significant change The following pages of this report and to the Board with Martin Payne joining the Directors Remuneration Report set as Chief Financial Officer, replacing Peter out in greater detail how the principles Shepherd who retired following 10 and provisions of the UK Corporate years of service with the Company.
I am Governance Code April 2014 the UK delighted to say that the transition has Code have been applied and how the been a smooth one and that Martin has Board and its committees have fulfilled settled into his role very well.
I remain their responsibilities during the year to confident that we have a strong and ensure that robust governance practices diverse Board in place, with the necessary are embedded across the Group.
The motivation, experience and skills to report also serves to provide insight support the Company with any future into how the Board and management challenges.
team run the business for the benefit In the previous year we reported that of the shareholders.
As always, we an externally facilitated review of our welcome questions or comments from Boards performance would be carried shareholders either via our website out during this year.
com or in person at now taken place and I was pleased with the AGM.
the outcome, which concluded that the Board functions strongly and also Ron Marsh provided some helpful areas of focus for Chairman the future.
The outcome of the review is 30 March 2017 discussed in more detail on pages 44 to 45 of this report.
The terms of reference for each of the Board committees were reviewed and adjusted as necessary to improve their efficiency and reflect changes of legislation and best practice.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT that the Annual Report and Accounts, { Strategy and overall management and COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK taken as a whole, is fair, balanced leadership of the Group: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and understandable and provides the { Financial items including the CODE necessary information for shareholders Groups annual budget, dividend This report, which is also available on the to assess the Companys performance, policy, annual and half yearly Companys website, explains key features business model and strategy.
accounts, accounting policies, and of the Companys governance structure monetary limits: to provide a greater understanding of HOW THE BOARD WORKS how the main principles of the UK Code { Risk management system and internal The Board and its Committees published in September 2014 by the controls: The Board is responsible for the Financial Reporting Council FRC, have leadership and direction of the Group { Contracts with third parties not in the been applied and to areas of focus during and is ultimately responsible to the ordinary course of business: the year.
The UK Code can be found on Companys shareholders for the Groups { Legal, administration and pension the FRCs website at www.
The Board takes the arrangements: lead in areas such as strategy, financial In accordance with the Listing Rules { The Groups corporate governance policy and making sure we maintain of the UK Listing Authority, the Board arrangements: a sound system of internal control.
By confirms that throughout the year ended { The application of the Companys delegating authority to its Committees, 31 December 2016 and as at the date of share options schemes as the Board directs and reviews the Groups this report, the Company has complied recommended by the Remuneration operations within an agreed framework with the main principles of the UK Code.
Committee: of controls, allowing risk to be assessed The FRC published an updated version and managed within agreed parameters.
{ Directors and officers insurance of the UK Corporate Governance Code coverage and the commencement or in September 2016.
Whereas the 2016 The Board has established a formal settlement of any litigation: version of the UK Code is effective for schedule of matters reserved for its accounting periods commencing on or { Communications with shareholders approval and has delegated other after 17 June 2016, the Company has and the issue of shareholder circulars: specific responsibilities to its principal adopted the new requirements early.
committees: the Audit, Nomination { Board and senior management and Remuneration Committees.
These appointments and arrangements: and The report also includes items required are clearly defined within the terms of by the Disclosure Guidance and { Authorising conflicts of interest where reference of the respective committees.
The Board has permitted by the Companys Articles The schedule of matters reserved for the ultimate responsibility for the approval of of Association.
Board includes the consideration and the Annual Report and Accounts.
It has approval of: considered the content and confirmed POLYPIPES GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE See page 48 See page 46 See page 52 41 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board has also delegated to the It is the Chairmans duty to provide of any regular or special meeting of the Chief Executive Officer the responsibility overall leadership and governance Board of Directors.
The role of the SID for implementing the Groups business of the Board.
In performing this role, is considered to be an important check model and for the day-to-day operational the Chairman sets the Board agenda, and balance in the Groups governance management of the Group.
The Chief ensures that adequate time is available structure.
During the year the SID met Executive Officer is supported in for discussion of all agenda items and with institutional investors to discuss carrying out his responsibilities by the promotes a culture of openness and Corporate Governance matters.
Chief Financial Officer, and the senior debate at Board meetings.
The Chairman Appointment and Tenure management team.
is also responsible for ensuring that the The Non-Executive Directors serve on Directors have an understanding of the The Board has direct access to the the basis of letters of appointment views of major shareholders.
Company Secretary, who is responsible which are available for inspection at the to the Board for ensuring that Board The Chief Executive is responsible for Companys registered office.
The letters procedures are complied with.
The Board executive management of the Groups of appointment set out the expected may take independent professional business, consistent with the strategy time commitment of the Non-Executive advice in the furtherance of its duties if and commercial objectives agreed by the Directors who, on appointment, necessary, at the Companys expense.
He leads the senior management undertake that they have sufficient time team in effecting decisions of the Board to meet what is expected of them.
There Board Composition, Qualification and its Committees and is responsible is no fixed expiry date and no notice and Experience for the maintenance and protection period in their letters of appointment.
At the year end, the Board was made of the reputation of the Group.
The The Executive Directors service contracts up of the independent Non-Executive Chief Executive is also responsible for are also available for inspection at the Chairman, two Executive Directors promoting the conduct of the affairs of Companys registered office.
The notice and three Non-Executive Directors.
the Group with the highest standards period for the Executive Directors is Biographical details of the individual of integrity, probity and corporate twelve months.
Directors can be found on pages 38 to governance.
The Non-Executive Directors were Directors Induction and Training Interaction between the Chairman appointed for the diversity of their Professional Development backgrounds as well as their personal and the Chief Executive The Chairman, with the support of the attributes and experience.
The current As noted above, the role of Ron Marsh Company Secretary, is responsible for the Board members bring a wide range of as the Chairman and David Hall as the induction of new Directors and ongoing skills and experience to the Board and all Chief Executive Officer are separate with development of all Directors.
Martin actively contribute in discussion.
The Payne joined as a Director during the year partnership between both is based on In accordance with UK Code Provision and received a comprehensive induction, mutual trust and facilitated by regular B.
1.1 the Nomination Committee and the which included a thorough briefing on contact between them.
The separation Board have considered the independence the Groups various policies including of authority enhances independent of each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Health and Safety, visiting all major oversight of the executive management The Board considered that the Chairman Group locations, a series of meetings by the Board and helps to ensure that and all the Non-Executive Directors were with Polypipe senior management and no one individual on the Board has deemed to be independent throughout employees, and meetings with the unfettered authority.
Martin joined Role of the Senior Independent the Company as Chief Financial Officer In accordance with UK Code Provision Director Designate prior to Peter Shepherds B.
7.1, at the 2016 AGM, the Board is Paul Dean is the Senior Independent departure, which ensured a seamless proposing that all of the Directors will be Director SID of the Company and is transfer of responsibilities from Peter to subject to annual re-election.
available to shareholders if they have Martin.
Role of the Chairman and concerns that cannot be addressed As the internal and external business through normal channels.
The role of Chief Executive environment changes, it is important the SID is to act as a sounding board for The roles and responsibilities of the to ensure the Directors skills and the Chairman and an intermediary for Chairman and the Chief Executive are knowledge are refreshed and updated the other Directors when necessary.
The separate and clearly defined.
For this purpose the Board SID is also available to chair the Board were provided with several presentations in the absence of the Chairman and has during the year, including presentations authority to add items to the agenda 42 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT by the financial advisers, brokers and the The effectiveness of these systems is also The Group has a thorough assurance Remuneration consultants of the Group reviewed through the work of the Audit process in place in respect of the and several presentations by senior Committee described on pages 49 to 51. preparation, verification and approval of management, in addition to the annual periodic financial reports which is set out The key risks which the Board has strategy day.
During Board meetings held in the Report of the Audit Committee on focussed on this year together with their during the year the Company Secretary pages 49 to 51. potential impact and mitigating actions updated the Board members on new are set out in the Risk Management This process includes: legislation and regulations, including the Report on pages 30 to 33.
{ the involvement of qualified, The Company has a Risk Management professional employees with an Directors Conflicts of Interest Framework which adopts a top down appropriate level of experience both Each Director has a duty under the and a bottom up view of the key risks in Group Finance and throughout the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation which involves both the downward Polypipe Group businesses : where he or she may have a direct or cascade and upward escalation of risks { formal sign-offs from appropriate indirect interest that conflicts with the between Group and the business units.
business segment senior executives: interests of the Company.
The Company It comprises a risk register template, a { comprehensive review and, where has robust procedures in place to identify, risk profile template and assessment appropriate, challenge from authorise and manage such conflicts guidelines to be used by both the Group appropriate Group senior executives of interest, and these procedures have and business units when considering and Executive Directors: operated effectively during the year.
It also includes a detailed approach { a transparent process to ensure full All potential conflicts approved by to formally recording and independently disclosure of information to the the Board are recorded in an Interests assessing Group level risks.
external auditors: Register which is maintained by the The Board has conducted a review of the Company Secretary and reviewed by the { oversight by the Groups Audit effectiveness of the system of internal Board on a regular basis.
Directors have a Committee, involving amongst other controls and risk management and is continuing duty to update the Board with duties : satisfied that it complies with Principle any changes to their conflicts of interest.
{ a detailed review of key financial C. 2.3 of the UK Code.
reporting judgements which have Directors Indemnity and Insurance FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS been discussed by management: Details of the Directors indemnity REPORTING PROCESS arrangements can be found on page 63 { review and, where appropriate, The Board recognises its duty to ensure of the Directors Report.
challenge on matters including: that the Annual Report and Accounts, the consistency of, and Internal Controls and Risk taken as a whole, is fair, balanced any changes to, significant Management and understandable and provides the accounting policies and The Board is responsible for determining information necessary for shareholders practices during the year: the nature and extent of the significant to assess the performance, strategy significant adjustments risks it is willing to take in achieving its and business model of the Company.
resulting from an external strategic objectives.
It is also responsible In addition to the Annual Report and audit: for maintaining sound risk and internal Accounts the Company also ensures that control systems in accordance with the viability statement other price-sensitive reports and other section C. 2.3 of the UK Code and assumptions: and information are published externally.
confirms that: the going concern assumption.
{ there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating, and managing The above process provides comfort the principal risks faced by the Group: to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, { the systems have been in place for balanced and understandable.
the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: { they are regularly reviewed by the Board: and { the systems accord with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
43 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT BOARD MEETINGS The Board met regularly during the year, holding nine Board meetings and a number of other meetings and teleconferences to discuss and review progress on issues affecting the Group throughout the year.
A number of Board Committee meetings were also held during the year.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings are shown in the table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Current Directors Ron Marsh 9 of 9 2 of 2 5 of 5 David Hall 9 of 9 2 of 2 Martin Payne 6 of 6 Moni Mannings 9 of 9 3 of 3 2 of 2 5 of 5 Paul Dean 9 of 9 3 of 3 2 of 2 5 of 5 Mark Hammond 9 of 9 3 of 3 2 of 2 5 of 5 Past Director Peter Shepherd 3 of 3 - Martin Payne served as Chief Financial Officer from 25 May 2016 to the end of the period.
Peter Shepherd served as Chief Financial Officer from the beginning of the period until 25 May 2016.
As the above table demonstrates every In November 2016, the Board held its responsibilities of each Board Committee effort is made to ensure that all Directors, strategy day, where it spent a full day are set out in formal Terms of Reference.
where possible, attend scheduled Board with senior management to discuss These Terms of Reference have been meetings.
However, in the event that a current performance of the Group and reviewed during the year and adjusted Director is unable to attend a meeting, the Strategic Plan.
Members of senior as necessary to improve the Committees they are nevertheless provided with the management presented to the Board the efficiency and to reflect changes of meeting papers and information relating operational and financial performance legislation and best practice.
The updated to the meeting and are able to discuss of each business in detail and explained Terms of Reference are available on the the issues arising with the Chairman and the growth prospects of each market Companys website at www.
segment in the UK and abroad.
The Board Committees make Senior management from across the Several Board dinners have been held recommendations to the Board as they Group, and advisers, attend some of the ahead of scheduled Board meetings to see fit.
meetings for discussion of specific items provide a more relaxed forum than the BOARD EVALUATION AND in greater depth.
formal meetings in which the Board EFFECTIVENESS members were able to have additional In order to provide the Board with greater In accordance with UK Code Provision discussions which improves the focus of visibility of the Groups operations and B.
6.3. the Board and its the formal Board meetings.
to provide further opportunities to meet Committees underwent their external senior management, the Board intends to During the year the Chairman held one evaluation conducted by Auxesis visit at least one of the Groups business meeting with the Non-Executive Directors Consulting Limited Auxesis.
Auxesis unit locations each year.
Such visits allow without the Executive Directors present, has no connection with the Company.
the Board to gain a deeper understanding and the Non-Executive Directors met The evaluation consisted of a tailored, of local market dynamics and to assess on one occasion without the Chairman high level questionnaire for the Directors management performance and potential.
being present to appraise the Chairmans completion and one to one discussions During the year, the Board visited the performance as discussed below.
with each of the Board members.
The Groups operations in Genoa Italy, questionnaire was structured to provide BOARD COMMITTEES Doncaster, Aylesford and Caerphilly.
Directors with an opportunity to express The Company currently operates three During these visits the Board members their views about: Board committees: the Audit Committee, attended management presentations the Nomination Committee and the and or tours of the factories and Remuneration Committee.
The role and distribution centres.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT 1.
Board structure and functionality: the senior management team to improve ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the performance of the Group and 2.
Board meetings and contents: The Companys AGM is to be held on promote the interests of the shareholders 24 May 2017 at the Holiday Inn, 3.
Board administration and and stakeholders had been achieved High Road, Doncaster, DN4 9UX.
All governance: and would continue to constructively shareholders have the opportunity to 4.
Interactions with management: challenge the senior management team.
attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at Consequently, the Chairman can confirm 5.
Committee structure, functionality the AGM.
A copy of the notice of AGM that each Director is suitable for reand meetings: and can be found on the Companys website election at the forthcoming AGM.
Personal effectiveness and overall Board effectiveness.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The AGM is the Companys principal A report on the findings of the Responsibility for shareholder relations forum for communication with private performance evaluation was prepared by rests with the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman of the Auxesis and presented by them to the Chief Financial Officer in conjunction Board and the Chairman of each of the Board in November 2016.
The results of with the Corporate Broker ensures Committees will be available to answer the evaluation indicated that the Board that there is effective communication shareholders questions at the AGM.
is rated effective to highly effective with shareholders on matters such as The notice of AGM will be sent out by its members and that the Directors governance and strategy and maintains to shareholders at least 20 working view the Board as a whole as focussed an active dialogue with investors through days before the meeting.
Results will with positive working relationships.
a planned programme of investor be announced to the London Stock Notwithstanding the above, the Directors relations activities.
As part of the investor Exchange via an RNS announcement and recognised the need to continuously relations programme, formal meetings published on the Companys website.
improve and develop their contributions.
with investors are scheduled to discuss Going forward the following actions the Groups interim and final results.
In RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS the intervening periods, the Company were agreed as a result of the exercise At the AGM, all Directors will retire and continues its dialogue with the investor and these will be progressed over the submit themselves for re-election.
As a community by meeting key investor coming year.
These included: result of the Board evaluation exercise, representatives and holding investor as Chairman I am satisfied that each { That the Board be provided with roadshows.
Director continues to show the necessary additional opportunities to focus on level of commitment to the Group and During the reporting period, the the Groups strategy: has sufficient time available to fulfil his or top 20 shareholders of the Group { That the Non-Executive Directors her duties, to justify their re-election.
were invited to meet with the Senior would explore opportunities to Independent Director and the Chair Approved by the Board and signed on its further grow their understanding of of the Remuneration Committee to behalf.
the business and to increase contact ensure that the Board was aware of with senior management: shareholder issues and concerns and to Ron Marsh { That succession planning of the ensure that a satisfactory dialogue took Chairman Non-Executive Directors should be on place.
Meetings were held with those 30 March 2017 the agenda for the coming years: and shareholders who accepted the invitation { That the Board should consider and no concerns were raised.
improving efficiency by adopting The Chairman, the Senior Independent electronic Board papers.
This has Director and the other Directors are been implemented with effect from available to engage in dialogue with December 2016. major shareholders as appropriate.
Board In addition, the Chairman discussed members develop an understanding of with each Director their performance the views of major shareholders through and their training needs and the Senior analysts and brokers briefings and any Independent Director led the assessment direct contact initiated by shareholders.
The Board believes that there were appropriate mechanisms in place during As a result of these individual reviews, the year for the Board to understand it is considered that the performance the views of shareholders and to of each of the Directors continues to communicate with them on matters be effective and that each Director including governance, strategy and demonstrates sufficient commitment to performance.
It was acknowledged that the objective of the Board in supporting 45 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5
