Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIR OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Nomination Committees main I am delighted to present the report of responsibilities are to evaluate the the Nomination Committee for 2016. structure, size and composition including Since the appointment of Martin Payne the skills, knowledge, experience and as CFO at the 2016 AGM, there have diversity required of the Board and the been no further changes within the Committees: to give full consideration Board during the course of the year to succession planning of Directors which has enabled the Committee to and other senior executives and to focus on its ongoing responsibilities.
A assist with the selection process of new more comprehensive description of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors activities of the Committee during the including the Chairman.
The Committees year is provided in the following report.
Terms of Reference were reviewed and I will be available at the AGM to answer updated during the year and explain the any questions about the work of the Committees role and responsibilities.
Terms of Reference can be found on the Ron Marsh Companys website at http: investors.
Chair of the Nomination Committee polypipe.
The Company GOVERNANCE Secretary acts as Secretary to the The effectiveness of the Committee was Committee.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP considered as part of the Board and AND MEETINGS In accordance with its terms of reference, Committee evaluation detailed on pages the Nomination Committee is required to: Throughout the year the Committee has 44 to 45.
At its meeting in December comprised Ron Marsh the Chairman, 2016, the Committee considered the { Review the structure, size and all of the Non-Executive Directors, being contents of the review and concluded composition of the Board and make Moni Mannings, Paul Dean and Mark that the evaluation had found the recommendations to the Board, as Hammond and David Hall the Chief Committee to operate effectively and appropriate: Executive Officer.
Accordingly, there provide robust challenge to the business.
{ Consider succession planning for were five members.
The Committee is Directors and other senior executives, MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING chaired by the Board Chairman except taking into account the challenges THE YEAR when considering his own re-election.
and opportunities facing the Group During the year under review the In accordance with UK Code Provision and the future skills and expertise appointment of Martin Payne as Chief B2.1.
the majority of the members needed on the Board: Financial Officer was finalised.
There have been { Review the leadership needs of details of the recruitment process were no changes in the membership of the the organisation, both Executive included on page 49 of the 2015 Annual Committee during the year or since the and Non-Executive, with a view to Report and Accounts.
ensuring the continued ability of the Committee also carried out its duties organisation to compete effectively in as listed above and has given particular The members of the Committee the marketplace: focus to succession planning for both and details of their attendance at the Board members as well as senior Committee meetings are set out on { Identify the balance of skills, executives as discussed below.
Biographies of each member knowledge, diversity and experience in the Corporate Governance Report, are shown on pages 38 to 39.
Under on the Board and nominate all of the Companys Directors will the Committees Terms of Reference candidates to fill Board vacancies: retire and each will offer themselves for the Committee will normally meet not { Identify and nominate for the re-election at the forthcoming AGM less than twice a year and at such other approval of the Board, candidates to in accordance with UK Code Provision times as the Chairman shall require.
The fill Board vacancies as and when they B.
In proposing their re-election, the Committee held two scheduled formal arise: Chairman confirms that the Nominations meetings during the year under review.
{ Review the time commitment Committee has considered the formal After each Committee meeting, the required from Non-Executive performance evaluation in respect of Chairman reports to the Board on the Directors: and those Directors seeking re-election and main items discussed.
the contribution and commitment of { Review the results of the Board the Directors that are required to offer performance evaluation process that themselves for re-election.
The Chairman relates to the composition of the has confirmed to the Board that their Board.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE performance and commitment is such appropriate to introduce a quota system that the Company should support their to enhance diversity in all of its forms to re-election.
The Companys recruitment and appointment strategy is based on the No Director was able to vote in respect of merits of the candidates.
Currently one of their own re-election when consideration the six Directors is female.
was given to Director re-election at the AGM.
Details of diversity within our workforce, including at Board and Executive Information on the Directors service management level can be found in our agreements, shareholdings and share Corporate Responsibility Statement on options of the Company is set out in the page 34.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 61.
TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SUCCESSION PLANNING Appointments to the Board are typically A key activity of the Committee is to keep made for an initial term of three years under review the Companys succession and are ordinarily limited to three plans for members of the Board consecutive terms in office subject to and senior managers over the short, annual re-election by the shareholders at medium and long-term to ensure the the AGM.
Board and senior management remains appropriately balanced between new NOMINATION COMMITTEE and innovative thinking and longer term PRIORITIES FOR 2017 stability.
Management training is provided During the forthcoming year the to senior and middle management where Committee will be focusing on the appropriate in order to develop internal succession planning of the senior talent for the future.
executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the In addition, the Committee has Group and the future skills and expertise considered emergency succession needed by the business.
The Committee planning and is comfortable that will also consider the succession planning a framework is in place should key of Non-Executive Directors so that management roles need to be covered on replacements, which will be required in an interim basis.
the longer term, can be phased over a Board appointment criteria are suitable period.
The Committee plans to considered automatically as part of the make diversity an area of focus in 2017, Committees approval on succession bearing in mind the recommendations planning.
The Committee believes that from the Hampton-Alexander Review limited tenure of the Chairman and Nonon FTSE Women Leaders and the Parker Executive Directors and their subsequent review on Diversity of Boards, and will enforced retirement as Directors is not report on this in due course.
always appropriate, and matters of By order of the Board.
Director tenure are viewed on a case by case basis.
However, currently all the Non-Executive Directors and the Ron Marsh Chairman have been appointed for less Chair of the Nomination Committee than six years as identified in Provision 30 March 2017 B.
The Committee supports diversity, acknowledging the advantages that come from having diverse viewpoints and the influence in decision making.
It is the aim of the Committee to always consider the benefits that arise from a diverse Board when making Board appointments.
The Committee does not judge it 47 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5
