26 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Governance rePort on corPorate GoVernance The Board is committed to meeting the standards of good of a group of Controlling Shareholders see the Report Corporate Governance as established by the Financial of the Directors on page 5, the election or re-election of Reporting Council.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2016, independent Directors is subject to a dual Shareholder vote the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code applied at the Annual General Meeting, pursuant to which re-election tothe Company.
The Code is publicly available on the Financial or election must be approved by a majority vote of the Reporting Councils website www.
Shareholders of the Company and, separately, by a majority vote of the Shareholders of the Company excluding the This report, together with the Report on Directors Controlling Shareholders.
Remuneration in respect of remuneration matters, describes how the Board applied the Code during the year under review.
The Executive Directors service contracts and the letters setting out the terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Board evaluation registered office during normal business hours and at the composition and independence Annual General Meeting.
The size of the Board allows individuals to communicate openly and to make a personal contribution through the exercise of diversity their individual skills and experience.
As at the date of this The Company supports the Code provision that boards should report, the Board of Directors has nine members comprising consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, making appointments and is committed to ensuring diversity twoother Executive Directors and five other Non-executive not just at board level but also across the Companys senior Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their management team, not least because it believes that business biographical details are set out on pages 2 to 3. benefits from the widest range of perspectives and backgrounds.
The Companys aim as regards the composition The Non-executive Directors have been appointed for their of the Board is that it should have a balance of experience, specific experience and expertise and are all considered to be skills and knowledge to enable each Director, and the Board independent of management and free from any business or as a whole, to discharge their duties effectively.
Whilst the other relationship which could materially interfere with the Company agrees that it is entirely appropriate that it should exercise of their independent judgment.
Mr Harvey is a seek to have diversity on its Board, it does not consider that Non-executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc, which this can be best achieved by establishing specific quotas and acts as insurance broker to the Company, but the level of fees targets and appointments will continue to be made based payable to Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc is not material and wholly on merit.
MrHarvey does not participate in any way in the provision of services, on which basis the Board is wholly satisfied that it is Further details on diversity within the business are set out in appropriate to designate Mr Harvey as independent.
In the Report of the Directors on page 6. addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, if at any time the Board or a Committee of the Board is Performance evaluation considering any matter concerning Jardine Lloyd Thompson Effectiveness reviews of the Board and its committees are Plc, it has been agreed that Mr Harvey will withdraw from carried out annually.
The 2016 review has been facilitated by that meeting until such matters have been dealt with.
the Company Secretary who, in conjunction with the Chairman of the Board, prepared a detailed questionnaire relating to the The Board has designated Professor Arnold as noncomposition, governance and performance of the Board for independent with effect from 1 January 2016 on the basis completion by the Directors.
The results of that exercise have that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
been reviewed by the Chairman of the Board and Chair of each Board committee, discussed in a formal meeting and the Mrs Silver is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director recommendations recorded and acted upon.
a position which she assumed in January 2016 and in this capacity she is available to Shareholders if they have concerns The review process which was undertaken during the year which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, concluded that all Directors continue to contribute effectively ChiefExecutive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry toresolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The performance of the Non-executive Directors is evaluated separately by the Executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors may serve on the boards of other The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Directors companies provided that this does not involve a conflict of performance with guidance from the Chief Executive Officer interest and that the appointment does not restrict their other than in respect of his own position.
ability to discharge their duties to the Company in any way.
Externally facilitated effectiveness reviews of the Board and its As set out in the Report of the Directors, the Board has committees are conducted every three years.
The last such resolved to comply with the provisions of the Code and each review was conducted in 2014 and, accordingly, an externally Director seeks re-election annually.
In view of the existence facilitated review is scheduled for 2017.
6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 26 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 27 operation of the Board committees of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic The Board has established a number of standing committees development, monitoring its business objectives and towhich various matters are delegated according to defined maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on the Companys website www.
com Six formal meetings of the Board were scheduled during the and will also be available at the Annual General Meeting.
year and the Directors met on a number of further occasions Details of the principal standing committees of the Board asnecessary to consider specific matters arising and to review areset out as follows: and develop the Companys corporate strategy.
nomination committee The differing roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly are acknowledged and set out in terms of reference which reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board havebeen adopted by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily andidentifying and recommending appropriate candidates responsible for the running of the Board and ensuring formembership of the Board when vacancies arise.
During that it is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information theyear ended 31 May 2016, the Committee members to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Chief Executive Officer wereMrHarvey Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, is responsible for coordinating the running of the business MsEdozien, Mr Kanellis, Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver and andimplementing Group strategy.
with effect from his appointment to the Board on 1 May 2016 Mr Nicolson.
The Company Secretary Mr Plant All Directors communicate with each other on a regular basis issecretary to the Committee.
and have regular and ready access to members of the Groups management team.
Senior executives are invited to attend The Committees principal activities during the year included: Board meetings to make presentations on specific matters or Following an indication from Mr Harvey that he intended to projects.
Board papers are prepared and issued to all Directors retire from the Board in December 2016, the identification in good time prior to each Board meeting to enable Directors of his successor as Chair of the Board of Directors, to give due consideration to all matters in advance of the culminating in a decision by the Board to appoint Mrs Silver meeting.
During the year, the Board has maintained an as Chair with effect from 1 January 2017.
In considering this understanding of the views of major Shareholders through appointment, the Nomination Committee evaluated the periodic face to face meetings and briefings from the skills, knowledge, experience and personal characteristics Companys advisors.
demanded by the role and agreed a detailed role description.
External search agencies were engaged to The Board has adopted formal procedures for Directors to take identify potential candidates and Mrs Silver was interviewed independent professional advice where necessary at the by each member of the Board, following which the Board Companys expense and each Director has full access to the approved her appointment and this was announced to services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for Shareholders in June 2016. ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules and The identification of a new independent Non-executive regulations are followed.
Director, culminating in the appointment to the Board of Mr Nicolson in May 2016.
In considering this appointment, The Board has an approved and documented schedule of the Nomination Committee evaluated the balance of skills, matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the knowledge and experience of the Board and prepared a Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and description of the role and capabilities required.
External major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of search agencies were engaged and a number of short-listed financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, candidates were then invited to interview with members health, safety, environmental matters and risk management ofthe Committee.
Other members of the Board were procedures.
thengiven the opportunity of meeting with short-listed candidates, following which the Board approved the The Board has also adopted a formal induction process for appointment of Mr Nicolson.
Directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with A recommendation that Professor Arnold be re-appointed operating management.
Training sessions have been organised asa Non-executive Director for an additional 12 months during the year for the Board on matters considered relevant following the expiry of his third term in December 2015. to the discharge of the Directors duties and Directors may take At the same time, the Nomination Committee recommended additional training where necessary as part of their continuing that Mrs Silver be appointed Senior Independent Director development at the expense of the Company.
inhis place with effect from 1 January 2016.
Receipt and review of regular reports from the Executive Directors and the Group HR Director on senior executive talent management and succession planning throughout the Group.
indd 27 18 08 2016 16:30 28 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Governance rePort on corPorate GoVernance continued The Committee is responsible for developing and supporting remuneration committee the activities necessary to convert an approved framework of The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and risk limits and risk appetite policies into an effective plan for recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of implementation across the Group.
This is achieved by ongoing the Executive Directors and senior executives, which the Board review to develop and implement plans to eliminate, reduce as a whole is responsible for approving.
The Committee or transfer risk where practicable.
The Committee is also members are Mrs Owers Committee Chair, Professor Arnold, responsible for reviewing the risk management and control Ms Edozien, Mrs Silver and with effect from his appointment process within the Group and encouraging and supporting to the Board on 1 May 2016 Mr Nicolson.
The Company two-way communications in respect of risk issues within Secretary Mr Plant is secretary to the Committee.
the business and with external stakeholders including Shareholders, suppliers and customers.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining specific remuneration packages composition of the audit and risk committee for each Executive Director, the Chairman and the Company The Audit and Risk Committee comprises Mrs Silver Secretary.
With the exception of the Non-executive Chairman, Committee Chair, with effect from 1 January 2016, Professor the fees of the Non-executive Directors are determined Arnold, Ms Edozien, Mrs Owers and with effect from his by the Executive Directors.
appointment to the Board on 1 May 2016 Mr Nicolson.
TheCommittee meets regularly with the external Auditor.
Further details of the Committees responsibilities and MrsSilver, a qualified chartered accountant, brings recent and activities during the year are set out in the Report on relevant financial experience to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Upon the reconstitution of the Committee, the Executive Directors ceased to be members but they attend meetings, audit and risk committee where appropriate, by invitation.
The Company Secretary responsibilities of the audit and risk committee MrPlant issecretary to the Committee.
During the year, the Board resolved to consolidate the Audit and Group Risk Committees and to constitute a new Audit and how the audit and risk committee discharges its Risk Committee.
responsibilities In order to fulfil its responsibilities, the Committee meets The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing, a minimum of 4 times a year and receives and reviews on behalf of the Board, the Groups accounting and financial presentations and reports from the Groups senior policies, its disclosure practices, internal controls, internal management, Group Internal Audit and the external Auditors.
It is responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration Financial reporting and significant financial judgments and performance of the external Auditor and for reviewing The Audit and Risk Committee assesses whether suitable the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgments.
The Audit and Risk Committee also reviews and approves The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns management which provides details on the main financial about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting reporting judgments.
The Committee also reviews reports or other matters.
This is achieved through using a third party bythe external Auditors on the half year and full year results reporting facility which accommodates telephone, web and which highlight any issues arising from the work undertaken in email contacts and allows anonymity on request.
respect of the half year review and year end audit.
The specific areas of audit and accounting judgment reviewed by the The Committee is also responsible for identifying, assessing Committee were: and prioritising the principal risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken 1. the carrying value and recognition of goodwill and to manage and mitigate those risks.
The risk areas which the intangible assets Committee reviews include general business risk, including risk The Groups goodwill and intangible assets relate to our brands arising out of the external financial environment, product and are a material balance sheet item.
Annual impairment safety risk, physical asset risk including factory, health & safety, reviews are performed for goodwill and other intangible assets and environmental risks, and IT and infrastructure risks.
with indefinite lives which use key judgments including Throughout the year, the Board as a whole conducts a robust estimates of future business performance and cash generation, review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group discount rates and long-term growth rates.
The Committee has and the output of this review forms the basis of the work reviewed managements analysis and is comfortable with the undertaken by the Committee during the year.
key assumptions applied and managements conclusion that no impairment is required.
indd 28 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 29 2.
Pensions including obligations and assumptions auditor independence The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are material to Whilst the Audit and Risk Committee has not adopted a formal its financial position.
The amounts shown in the balance sheet policy in respect of the rotation of the external Auditor, one of are highly sensitive to changes in key actuarial assumptions.
its principal duties is to make recommendations to the Board in The Committee has reviewed and agreed the appropriateness relation to the appointment of the external Auditor.
Various and consistency of these assumptions with management.
factors are taken into account by the Committee in this respect.
Full disclosure of the pension scheme is provided in note 23 These include the quality of the reports provided to the to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Audit and Risk Committee and the Board and the level of understanding of the Groups business demonstrated.
This 3. direct tax provisions year, the Committee considered, as usual, whether to retain The global and transformational nature of the Group means  LLP as Auditor and concluded that, that it is periodically involved in restructuring activities inview of the quality of the service provided, the cost e. g. acquisitions, disposals and reorganisations.
These effectiveness of the work carried out and the firms capacity activities have complex tax related consequences in a number toprovide service across all of the Groups global operations, it of jurisdictions around the world where the approach of the was appropriate to retain them.
The Committee last tendered taxauthorities is particularly difficult to predict.
Where the audit in 2008 and will next conduct a competitive tender appropriate, provisions are made using managements tax process during the year ending 31 May 2017. judgment.
The Committee has reviewed the key judgments with management and considers the tax provisioning levels The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit tobe appropriate.
The Auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services which are not, and are not perceived to 4.
Promotional trade spend and related accruals be, in conflict with Auditor independence, providing it has the Trade spend is a significant expense for the Group, with skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work and is themain judgment related to trade promotional accruals, considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work specifically the timing and extent to which temporary in the best interests of the Group.
Assignments with a value promotional activity has occurred.
The Committee has of 50,000 or more must be submitted to the Committee for reviewed with management its assessment of the control approval and activities which may be perceived to be in conflict environment and the findings of Internal Audit relating to trade with the role of the external Auditor must be submitted to the spend.
It is the Committees view that management operates Committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of an appropriate control environment which minimises the risks the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the in this area.
Details of the amounts paid to the external Auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out 5. exceptional items in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Committee has considered the presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and, in particular, the In future years the Committee will also review the proposed presentation of exceptional items and the items included provision of non-audit services against the backdrop of UK and within such measures.
The Committee has discussed this with EU prohibitions regarding the provision of non-audit services, management and agreed that the presentation provides more which will apply to the Group for the financial year beginning meaningful information to Shareholders about the underlying on 1 June 2017, to ensure the Group complies with all performance of the Group and that theitems presented as restrictions and requirements applicable to it.
exceptional items have been treated in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
indd 29 18 08 2016 16:30 30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Governance rePort on corPorate GoVernance continued attendance at meetings The number of scheduled meetings of the Board excluding such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address specific matters arising and of each of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year ended 31May 2016, together with a record of the attendance of the current Directors who are their respective members, is detailed in the table below: Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number Number Number Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number eligible to of meetings eligible to of meetings eligible to of meetings eligible to of meetings attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended MrG A Kanellis 6 6 n a n a n a n a 3 3 MrC G Davis 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a MrB H Leigh 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a MrR J Harvey 6 6 n a n a n a n a 3 3 Prof J A Arnold 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 MsN Edozien 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 Mrs H Owers 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 MrJ Nicolson 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Mrs C Silver 6 5 4 3 4 2 3 3 Note: n a indicates that the Director is not a member of the committee.
No Director participates in meetings when matters relating to him her are being discussed.
Good4Business G4B committee Going concern The Good4Business Committee formerly known as the CSR The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Committee is responsible for reviewing and developing the to affect its future development, performance and position are Companys corporate strategy to ensure that CSR is an integral set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the part of the strategy and that the Groups social, environmental Group and liquidity position are described within the Financial and economic activities are aligned.
The Good4Business Review which forms part of the Strategic Report.
In addition, Committee is also responsible for the development of policies note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes on all key areas of CSR including the environment, health & policies in relation to the Groups financial instruments and safety, consumer safety, business conduct and ethics, riskmanagement and policies for managing credit risk, liquidity employees and local community and charity.
Further details risk, market risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk, cash flow of the Committees terms of reference and activities during andinterest rate riskand capital risk.
the year are set out in the Good4Business section of the Strategic Report.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate The Good4Business Committee comprises Ms Edozien resources to continue in operational existence for a period Committee Chair, Professor Arnold, Mr Davis, Mr Harvey, ofatleast 12 months from the date of approving the financial MrKanellis, Mr Leigh, Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver and with effect statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going from his appointment to the Board on 1 May 2016 concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial MrNicolson.
The Company Secretary Mr Plant is secretary to Statements.
A viability statement has been prepared and the Good4Business Committee.
The Committee reports approved by the Board and this is set out on page 35 of the formally to the Board after each meeting.
It has authority to Strategic Report.
obtain external advice as considered appropriate and the Board has resolved that it should be provided with sufficient resources toundertake fully its responsibilities.
remuneration Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Report onDirectors Remuneration.
indd 30 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 31 internal control relations with shareholders The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal In its financial reporting to Shareholders the Board aims to control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is present a balanced and understandable assessment of the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Groups financial position and prospects.
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement The Company maintains a corporate website, or loss.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors and a The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for subscription email service is available which enables access identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant toCompany notifications and news releases.
risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 May 2016 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and The Company has periodic discussions with institutional Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board Shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for Directors performance.
The Board is also kept informed of investors onthe Code.
The process includes: views through regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and investor opinion feedback.
frequent communication between the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee and subsidiary management on All Shareholders, including private investors, have an allcritical business issues: opportunity to present questions to the Board at the Annual regular visits to operating units by the Board, head office General Meeting and the Directors make themselves available management and Internal Audit: to meet informally with Shareholders after the meeting.
a detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting: regular review by the Board and Audit and Risk Committee General meetings of shareholders ofrisk throughout the Group and the risk management The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting processes in place: and of the Company is set out in the separate Notice of Annual taking necessary action to remedy any significant General Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness and Accounts.
Resolutions put before Shareholders at the of the internal control system.
Annual General Meeting will usually include resolutions for the appointment of Directors, approval of the Report on Directors Throughout the year, the Board has carried out assessments Remuneration, declaration of the final dividend and ofinternal control by considering documentation from the authorisation for the Board to allot and repurchase shares.
Executive Directors, Audit and Risk Committee and Internal At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, voting on each resolution Audit function as well as taking into consideration events since will be by way of a poll.
The internal controls extend to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated At each Annual General Meeting there is an update on the accounts.
The basis for the preparation of consolidated progress of the business over the last year and also on current accounts is as set out in note 1 to the Consolidated trading conditions.
The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas for improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a defined fraud reporting and whistleblowing process which are issued to all employees within the Group.
indd 31 18 08 2016 16:30 32 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Governance rePort on corPorate GoVernance continued The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting compliance statement records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Directors consider that the Company complied fully with transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the provisions of the Code through the year ended 31 May 2016 the financial position of the Company and the Group and and up to the date of this report.
enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the statement of directors responsibilities Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also the Report on Directors Remuneration and the Group and responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the applicable law and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors integrity of the Companys website, www.
have elected to prepare the Group Financial Statements in Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and dissemination of financial statements may differ from IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and preparing the Group Financial Statements, the Directors have provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess also elected to comply with IFRSs issued by the International the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state pages 2 to 3, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared loss of the Group and Company for that period.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are profit of the Group: and required to: the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply development and performance of the business and the them consistently: position of the Group, together with a description of the make judgments and accounting estimates which are principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union By order of the Board andIFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent s P Plant Company Financial Statements respectively: and company secretary 26 July 2016 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basisunless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
indd 32 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 33 financial statements contents 34 Independent Auditors Report Group 41 Consolidated Income Statement 42 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 43 Consolidated Balance Sheet 44 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 45 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 46 N otes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 84 Independent Auditors Report Company 86 Company Balance Sheet 87 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 88 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 97 Further Statutory and Other Information 98 Five Year Financial Record Unaudited 99 Shareholder Information and Contacts 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
