Corporate governance statement An introduction fromour Chairman Dear shareholder, We believe that it is imperative that a company operates a sound system of corporate governance and internal control as it seeks to evolve and grow its business.
As QinetiQ develops its vision and strategy for the coming years, good governance is critical for effective stewardship and risk management.
The Board has overseen a year of intense activity as the new Group Chief Executive Officer, Steve Wadey, carried out his familiarisation with and evaluation of QinetiQ, and then developed and rolled out his strategy to take the Group forwards.
Succession planning has remained an area of focus for the Board.
Effective governance Lynn Brubaker was appointed as an additional Non-executive Director in January 2016.
Lynn enjoyed a long career in the US commercial Corporate governance is about what the Board of a company aviation sector and I am delighted that she has joined the Board.
does and how it sets the values of the company.
The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and In the US, Tom Mills and Scott Webster were appointed as Proxy prudent management that can deliver the long-term success of holders of Foster-Miller, Inc. in 2015.
I was saddened by the death of the company.
The Board of Directors therefore should comprise Len Moodispaw in 2015.
Len was an excellent Proxy Board Chairman, experienced individuals with a variety of backgrounds and having been appointed to that role in 2014 following the disposal of experience, who are independent in character and judgement.
the US Services business, and he was instrumental in setting out the processes for the new Proxy Board and its relationship with the UK Board skills Board of Directors.
Dave Carey has replaced Len as Proxy Board Chairman and the Executive Directors have met with and joined the 2016 Number of Directors new Proxy Board at a number of its meetings.
Details of the role of Defence 6 the Proxy Board can be found on page 66.
Engineering 4 Financial 9 Science 5 There have been a number of changes in the companys senior executive management team and its structure, to enhance and complement the existing range of skills.
Details of the new governance structure can be found on page 56.
This year has seen an external evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and details can be found on page 61.
Directors length of tenure As QinetiQ begins the new financial year with a new vision and 2016 % strategy, and a new Executive Committee to lead the way, the Board, Up to 3 years 44.5 through its decisions and leadership, will maintain a guiding hand on 4-6 years 44.5 7-9 years 11.0 the work of the CEO and his team to ensure a balanced and measured way forwards.
Mark Elliott Non-executive Chairman 26 May 2016 Board composition 2016 % Chairman 11.0 Non-executive 67.0 Non-independent 22.0 50 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Compliance statement In this section: QinetiQ is subject to the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as Compliance 51 currently in effect.
The Code and associated guidance Overview of the application of the main principles of the Code 52 are publicly available on the Corporate Governance page of the Financial Reporting Councils website, Leadership 54 www.
Composition of the Board 54 Roles and responsibilities 54 The Board considers that QinetiQ has complied with Board objectives 54 all relevant Provisions of the Code throughout the last Board operation 54 financial year.
With regard to the Code requirements Board meetings and attendance 56 on audit tendering, as set out on page 74, the Committees 56 company intends to tender the audit during 2016, with the selected auditor being proposed for Directors biographies 58 appointment at the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
Effectiveness 60 This statement provides details of the way in which the Main Principles of the Code have been applied Director training and development 60 during that year.
Independence of Non-executive Directors 60 Performance of the Board 61 An overview of the Groups corporate governance arrangements can be found on the QinetiQ website at Report of the Nominations Committee 62 www.
Accountability 64 Identification and review of risks 64 Internal control 65 Management and control of US subsidiaries 66 Corporate governance is Board statements relating to risk management 68 about what the Board of Directors statement of fair, balanced and understandable assessment 68 Board assessment of principal risks 68 acompany does and how Board review of effectiveness of risk management and internal controls 68 itsets the values of the Going concern statement 68 Directors confirmation of longer-term viability 69 company.
The purpose Report of the Audit Committee 70 ofcorporate governance Report of the Risk & CSR Committee 75 isto facilitate effective, Report of the Security Committee 77 entrepreneurial and prudent Relations with shareholders 78 management that can deliver the long-term Remuneration 80 success of the company.
Annual statement on remuneration 80 Remuneration Policy Summary 82 Annual Report on Remuneration 86 Directors report 96 Directors responsibility statement 99 Independent auditors report 100 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Corporate governance statement continued Overview of the application of theMain Principles of the Code Code Principle A Code Principle B Leadership Effectiveness pages 54 to 59 pages 60 to 63 A1 B1 The Role of the Board The Composition of the Board The Board met seven times during the year.
There is a schedule At least half the Board excluding the Chairman comprises of matters reserved to the Board and the Board has a set of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers the objectives and responsibilities.
This report contains a statement overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard of how the Board operates, including which types of decisions to the experience and skills the Directors bring to their duties.
are taken by the Board and which are delegated to management.
Details of the Board and Committee membership and Directors B2 attendance at Board and Committee meetings are included in this Appointments to the Board Annual Report on page 56.
The Nominations Committee oversees appointments to the Board, its balance of skills and experience and the succession planning A2 process.
The report of the Nominations Committee can be found Division of Responsibilities on page 62.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are not exercised by the same individual and their separate responsibilities are established, B3 set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Time Commitment The anticipated time commitment required in respect of the A3 non-executive role is communicated in the appointment process.
The Chairman The Board is notified of changes to other significant commitments The Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, sets the and the Chairman consulted where appropriate.
agenda for Board meetings and encourages an open and constructive debate.
B4 Director Training and Development A4 All Directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board.
Non-executive Directors Site visits and training are made available to enable Directors The Non-executive Directors provide constructive challenge to to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
management and help develop proposals on strategy.
The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
B5 Regular meetings are held with the Chairman and Non-executive Information and Support for Directors Directors without the executives present.
The Chairman, working in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
B6 Performance evaluation An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, is carried out annually.
Details can be found on page 61.
B7 Re-election of Directors The company requires each serving member of the Board to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual basis at each Annual General Meeting.
52 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Code Principle C Code Principle D Accountability Remuneration pages 64 to 77 pages 80 to 95 C1 D1 Financial and Business Reporting Level and Components of Remuneration The Board presents its results at the full year and the half year The Board has established a Remuneration Committee with formal and provides quarterly updates to the market.
The Annual Report terms of reference.
It is responsible for ensuring that levels of and Accounts contains a Strategic report which provides an remuneration are of sufficient quality and that any performance explanation of how the company generates or preserves value related elements are relevant, stretching and designed to promote over the longer term the business model and the strategy for the long-term success of the company.
delivering the objectives of the company.
A going concern statement and longer-term viability statement are included on D2 pages 68 and 69 respectively, responsibility statements can be Developing Remuneration Policy and Packages found on page 99, and details of the process for ensuring that the The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable can be found Directors remuneration report on pages 80 to 81.
It provides details on page 68.
There is also a statement in the auditors report on of, or links to, the Groups reward and remuneration policies and page 102 about their reporting responsibilities.
payments, and also the procedure for setting policy on Executive Director remuneration.
C2 The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and Risk Management and Internal Control structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Directors The risk management process and the system of internal control remuneration report is incorporated into this corporate governance necessary to manage risks are assessed and monitored by the statement by reference.
Audit Committee financial risks and the Risk & CSR Committee non-financial risks.
A report on specific risk review activity undertaken during the year by those committees, together with the current risk registers, is presented by the CEO to the Board E Code Principle annually.
The Strategic report contains on pages 42 to 49 details of risk management and the companys principal risks and Relations with Shareholders uncertainties, their impact and how they are managed.
Details of pages 78 to 79 risk management and internal control processes can be found on pages 64 to 67.
E1 An explanation of how the Directors have assessed the prospects Dialogue with Shareholders of the company and a statement in respect of the Boards The Chairman ensures that all Directors are made aware of major assessment of the companys longer-term viability are set out shareholder issues and concerns, by way of reports from the on page 69.
Executive Directors at Board meetings, attendance at key financial calendar events and by making themselves available to meet shareholders as required.
As noted on page 78, meetings with C3 investors during the year were led by the Executive Directors.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Chairman and Senior Independent Director were available The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising at least to attend meetings with investors as appropriate and on request.
three independent Non-executive Directors, with formal terms of reference.
It oversees the financial risk management and internal controls process, the effectiveness of internal audit activities, E2 the external auditors independence and objectivity and makes Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting recommendations to the Board in respect of the reappointment All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting and of the external auditor and their remuneration.
The report of the to ask questions.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Audit Committee can be found on pages 70 to 74.
Risk & CSR and Security Committees attend the meeting and are available to answer any questions on the work of the committees.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Corporate governance statement continued to demonstrate leadership in management systems around health, A safety and environment: and to manage succession planning for the Board and the Groups Leadership executive management.
The Board Matters reserved to the Board The Board represents the interests of both QinetiQ and its The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters which are shareholders.
It comprises a range of experience and expertise specifically reserved to it for consideration, in addition to those required to meet the challenges facing the Group.
The Non-executive specified in the companys Articles of Association.
Directors bring independent judgement on key issues affecting the Group and its business operations, including strategy, performance, These include but are not limited to : resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
reviewing and approving the annual budgets: raising indebtedness: Composition of the Board granting security over Group assets: At the date of this report, the Board has nine members: the approving Group strategy and the corporate plan: Non-executive Chairman: six other Non-executive Directors: and approving the Annual and Interim Report and Accounts: two Executive Directors the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the approving significant investment, bid, acquisition and divestment Chief Financial Officer CFO.
Their names and skills and experience transactions: are set out on pages 58 to 59. approving HR policies including pension arrangements : reviewing material litigation: and The following changes in Board membership took place during the year: monitoring the overall system of internal control, including risk Steve Wadey was appointed as an Executive Director and CEO management.
Lynn Brubaker was appointed as a Non-executive Director Operation on 27 January 2016.
The Board has an annual calendar of meetings and operates through a comprehensive set of processes which define the schedule of Roles and responsibilities matters to be considered by the Board and its Committees during the The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups strategy annual business cycle.
This includes the level of delegated authorities and ensuring the implementation of operational activity which supports both financial and non-financial available to Executive Directors that strategy.
It has mandated the organisations standards of behaviour and other layers of management in the business, QinetiQs business and its risk appetite, along with key policies and processes, and enables ethics, risk management, and health, safety and environmental the business to implement strategy and monitor operational processes.
The Board devotes one entire meeting each year to performance through its direction and advice.
The Directors are consider strategy and planning issues that have an impact on the responsible for overseeing the performance of the Group, and their Group, from which the corporate plan is generated.
It is also regularly powers are subject to the Articles of Association and any applicable kept up to date on strategic issues throughout the year.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day operational the Boards review of strategy during the year can be found on the management of the company to the Executive Directors and members next page.
of the senior management team, but certain matters are reserved to it for its decision, as detailed on this page.
The Board monitors the For each meeting, as standing items, the Board receives a written performance of the senior management team and organises its business report from the CEO and CFO and a report produced by the Company to have regular interaction with key members of senior management.
Secretary on key legal and regulatory issues that affect the Group.
The CEOs and CFOs report addresses the key strategic initiatives Individual Board members bring significant skills and experience to bear which have had an impact on the Group since the previous Board on their contribution to the Board.
They are able to operate at a high meeting, with particular focus on the progress of each of the level independently of each other but also work together as a team.
businesses, and also contains a report on investor relations which is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers.
Other key areas of Board objectives focus include health, safety and environmental matters: employee The overarching remit of the Board is to demonstrate the highest and organisational issues: corporate responsibility: the status of key standards of corporate governance in accordance with the Code account management customer relationship initiatives: the pipeline and to carry out the Directors fiduciary duties: of potential bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments: and the to demonstrate strategic leadership and oversight: post-acquisition performance of recently acquired businesses.
to agree the strategy and to ensure the continuing evolution and implementation of the Groups strategy to deliver value The Board also receives updates from key functional areas on an as to all stakeholders: customers, employees and shareholders: needed basis, on issues such as human resources, treasury, corporate to develop challenging objectives for the business and monitor responsibility, real estate, security, trade controls and pensions.
management performance against those goals: to provide a framework of effective controls to assess and manage Following the changes in the Board membership in 2015, and with the risks, with clear expectations of conduct to the highest standards arrival of the new CEO, it had been agreed as part of the Board of ethics: effectiveness review in 2015 that steps would be taken to integrate to provide support and constructive challenges to the CEO all members of the Board and also to facilitate further attendance to promote the Groups success: at Board meetings by members of the senior management team to enhance the Boardbusiness relationship.
54 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information During the year under review, members of the senior management Board and Committee meetings are generally spread over a two-day team presented to the Board and its Committees on specific areas, period, to allow sufficient time for the Board to deal with the various including reputational risk, corporate responsibility, cyber risk, items of business.
The Chairman meets with the Non-executive pensions and strategy.
Going forwards, arrangements have been Directors, without executives present, after each Board meeting.
made for Non-executive Directors to attend each of the quarterly extended leadership meetings run by the Executive Committee The Board also meets informally, to facilitate Board integration and and which are attended by approximately 100 senior leaders working together as a team, and to allow time for the Directors to within the Group.
consider other matters outside of the formal agenda.
Key issues considered by the Board in the past year include: Development of Group Strategy factors which drove the case for change were considered.
The The Board has had full oversight of the development of the Group second day looked at the proposed vision, success criteria and strategy and transformation programme during the year.
strategy, and the critical enablers of integration, excellence, investment, international growth and innovation were considered.
At its May and July meetings, the Board received updates from the CEO The transformation programme, leadership and organisational in respect of his progress with his Group familiarisation programme and structures and performance trajectory were also considered.
It was how that was beginning to crystallise the focus for the Group strategy.
noted that further research, analysis and iteration were required to Strategy planning was a separate agenda item at both the July and refine the strategy and establish the detail of the new structures, September meetings, when the Group Strategy Director presented on and would take place over the ensuing three to four months.
progress against milestones in respect of the current strategy, together with updates on progress with the development of the new integrated Following the November strategy meeting, the Group strategy strategic business plan which would be presented at the two day Board was further refined and established, and reported on by the Group strategy meeting in early November.
Strategy Director at the January Board meeting.
The new vision and strategy and related transformation programme were rolled out The November Board Strategy meeting was a two-day meeting held to the company in early March, with a further update on progress at an off-site location where the strategy for the Group as a whole from the Group Strategy Director at the Boards March meeting.
was reviewed by the Board, with presentations by key members of the senior management team.
The pre-reading materials had The progress of the integrated strategic business plan and detailed the broad structure of discussions on the strategic transformation programme will continue to be on the Board agenda environment, a vision-led strategy that responded to that for consideration and measurement over the coming year.
Details of environment and a transformation programme that would drive the Group strategy can be found in the Strategic report on pages growth.
A review of each business was presented and the market 10 to 15.
Monitoring developments in the MOD spending review Financial Reporting The UK Governments Strategic Defence and Security Review Financial oversight is a key responsibility of the Directors and the SDSR was published in November 2015, in respect of the UKs Board routinely reviews, with input from the Audit Committee, capability priorities and UK defence budget, and the revised the results at the half year and the full year in November and May baseline profit rates for single source contracts as set by the Single respectively.
Source Regulations Office were announced in 2016.
These were key matters for the company and it was important for the Board to At the May Board meeting, the draft annual report and financial be kept informed of developments and mitigating actions.
The Board received a report from the CFO and considered the recommendation from Consequently, as part of the Executive Report tabled at each the Audit Committee in respect of the work undertaken to satisfy Board meeting, the CEO and CFO kept the Board up to date on the fair, balanced and understandable requirement.
The Board developments with the consultations in respect of both matters, received a summary of the principal controls put in place by the and of the actions being taken within the company to mitigate executive to ensure the integrity of the audit process, including the potential impact of the reviews and to address the related the provision of information to the auditor, the self-certification opportunities and threats.
process and internal management representations, a going concern review and a paper to discuss any dividend Efficiency and innovation were identified early on in the process considerations.
The companys brokers attended relevant parts as key themes.
The company set up a Test and Evaluation working of the meeting.
group and engaged directly with MOD personnel to identify how the company could work with the MOD to strengthen the At the November Board meeting, the half year announcement and companys offering from the Long Term Partnering Agreement draft results presentation were presented by the CEO and CFO to in order to achieve the efficiencies that were needed to meet the the Board for their consideration, together with a paper to discuss governments requirements.
The companys auditor and brokers attended relevant parts of the meeting.
By keeping the Board informed of developments as the reviews progressed, the Board was able to provide the executive with At the intervening Board meetings, financial updates were guidance and oversight throughout the review periods.
presented by the CFO as part of the routine Executive Report.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Corporate governance statement continued Attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees: Since the end of the period under review, the Operating Committee 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 has been replaced by a new Executive Committee and the Groups businesses have been re-aligned to reflect the new vision and Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR strategy, as detailed on pages 10 to 15.
The Executive Committee Members Board Committee Committee Committee Committee comprises the CEO, CFO, the MDs of the new business groups and Mark Elliott 7 7 4 4 5 5 4 4 functional heads.
1 Lynn Brubaker 2 2 1 1 1 1 Admiral Sir James 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 4 4 As part of this change, the work of the Governance Committee has Burnell-Nugent been included in the business of the Executive Committee with Michael Harper 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 4 4 specific agenda items for governance matters.
Going forwards, Ian Mason 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 4 4 a number of sub-committees have been set up to drive integration, 2 David Mellors 7 7 4 4 alignment and monitoring of policies.
Each sub-committee is led by Paul Murray 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 4 4 a member of the Executive Committee and comprises representatives Susan Searle 7 7 5 5 4 4 5 5 4 4 from relevant businesses and functions.
3 Steve Wadey 7 7 4 4 4 4 Communication between the Board and the Executive 1 Lynn Brubaker joined the Board on 27 January 2016.
2 David Mellors was interim CEO during the period from 1 January 2015 to 26 April 2015.
Committee 3 Steve Wadey joined the Board on 27 April 2015.
The Executive Directors and Company Secretary are members of the There was no requirement for the Security Committee to meet during the year.
Executive Committee and are involved in the day-to-day management of the Groups business, operations and underlying committees.
Committees Other Executive Committee members and members of the senior During the year, QinetiQ operated by way of two key executive management team present to the Board and the Board Committees committees, the Operating Committee and the Executive Committee, on key matters.
This interaction enables the Board to receive and five principal Board committees.
Further details are set out information first-hand about the company and its operations and on the next page.
to give guidance on strategy and oversight of the business direct to senior management.
Board and Committee structure Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Security Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Committee 56 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Board Committees Executive Committees The Board has established five principal Committees: the Audit During the year, the company operated via two executive Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration committees, the Operating Committee and the Governance Committee, the Risk & CSR Committee and the Security Committee.
Membership of the two committees comprised the CEO Each operates within written terms of reference approved by the and CFO, business MDs and functional heads.
With effect from 1 April Board.
The full terms of reference can be found in the Governance 2016, following the companys strategic review, the Operating and section of the QinetiQ website at www.
com about-us Governance Committees were replaced by an Executive Committee, corporate-governance.
as detailed on the previous page.
Given the size of the Board, and in the interests of full Board During the year under review, the Operating Committee was participation and transparency, the Board maintains a policy of all responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups activities, of the Directors being members of all of the Committees, other than with the exception of QinetiQ North America which is managed where prohibited by the Code, statutory or Security Committee through the Proxy Board, as described on page 66 in the section requirements.
As a result, both the Executive and Non-executive headed Management and control of US subsidiaries.
It met on a Directors are members of the Risk & CSR Committee, which facilitates monthly basis, and received weekly updates on key operational issues full consideration of the oversight of internal controls and nonby way of pre-scheduled conference calls.
It reported via the Chief financial risk management, with the Non-executive Directors being Executive Officer to the Board.
Its specific focus continued to be on members of the Audit Committee and focusing on financial controls the achievement of the Groups strategic goals in respect of growth and financial risk management.
Where a Committee is not attended by the full Board, details of During the year under review, the Governance Committee was the key issues discussed, and decisions taken, are circulated to all responsible for the oversight of the risk management process and members of the Board after the relevant Committee meeting.
its implementation by the divisions.
It met on a quarterly basis and reported via the Chief Executive Officer to the Risk & CSR Committee.
A report in respect of each of these Committees is set out in this report on the pages noted in the index on page 51.
The details of Matters covered during the year included non-financial corporate attendance at Committee meetings are set out in the table on the objectives, targets and key performance indicators, approval of previous page and also in separate tables contained within each Operating Framework policy documents and the review of business Committee report.
risk registers and the Group Risk Register.
The relevant Code disclosures in respect of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 95 and are incorporated into this Corporate governance statement by reference.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Board of Directors Mark Elliott Steve Wadey David Mellors Michael Harper Lynn Brubaker Admiral Sir James Ian Mason Paul Murray Susan Searle Jon Messent Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive Director Burnell-Nugent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary and Independent Non-executive Non-executive Director Group General Counsel Director Appointment Appointed Non-executive Appointed Chief Executive Appointed Chief Financial Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed as Company to the Board Chairman in March 2010.
Director in January 2016 Director in April 2010.
Secretary and Group General Appointed Non-executive Appointed Interim Chief Appointed Deputy Chairman Counsel in January 2011.
Director between June 2009 Executive Officer from and Senior Independent and February 2010.
1 January 2015 until Non-executive Director 26 April 2015. in February 2012.
Independence Independent on appointment Not applicable Not applicable Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Not applicable Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Risk & CSR Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee memberships Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Security Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Nominations Committee Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Security Committee Security Committee Security Committee Security Committee Security Committee Chairman Skills and Mark has experience of a Steve has in-depth David has extensive Michael has a wealth of Lynn has considerable Sir James has significant Ian has considerable Paul has a broad range of Susan has extensive Jon Joined QinetiQ from experience variety of industry sectors experience of the defence experience of working operational and corporate experience in the experience of the defence experience in strategy, experience in finance and experience of investing Chloride Group plc where from membership of the industry and technology in a listed company experience and international aerospace industry, contracting with business transformation, corporate governance in growing technology he held a similar role.
boards of FTSE listed and extensive operational environment and of the stewardship, including in industry, including government and eCommerce and from a cross-section of businesses, acquisitions, He has a background companies.
and corporate experience defence, technology and the engineering sector.
industries, all of which intellectual property in legal private practice and stewardship.
He is a development, strategy, Non-executive Chairman of leverage technology.
and exploitation of as well as general Mark is a Non-executive He is a Non-executive He was Group Chief a Fellow of the Royal member of the Institute operational and Witt Limited and was High new technologies.
counsel and company Director of G4S plc, Director of the Aerospace Executive of He is a Non-executive Academy of Engineering, of Chartered Accountants manufacturing issues.
Sheriff of Devon during secretarial experience in where he is the Senior Technology Institute.
Electrocomponents plc Director and Chair of the Susan is a Non-executive a Fellow of the Institution of in England and Wales.
Independent Director Michael was Chairman of from 2001 until 31 March Audit & Risk Committee at Director and Chair of the Engineering and Technology record of running career in the Royal Navy, and Chairman of the David was previously Ricardo plc from November 2015, having joined Royal Mail Group plc.
Remuneration Committee and a Fellow of the Royal international operations, which culminated in his Remuneration Committee, Deputy Chief Financial 2009 until November 2014, that company in 1995.
Paul is also a Director of of both Benchmark Holdings Aeronautical Society.
as well as experience appointment as and Chairman of Kodak Officer of Logica plc, having joined that Board in Previously he worked for Independent Oil and Gas plc and Horizon Discovery of businesses in which Commander-in-Chief Fleet, Alaris Holdings Limited.
During the year under Chief Financial Officer 2003, Chairman of BBA The Boston Consulting plc, Ventive Ltd and Naked Group plc.
She is Chair of technology and intellectual he commanded the aircraft review, Steve ceased to be of Logicas international Aviation plc from June 2007 Group and was a Energy Ltd.
Previously, Woodford Patient Capital He was a Non-executive property are important.
carrier HMS Invincible and Co-Chair of the Defence division, covering until May 2014, having Non-executive Director Paul was a Director of Trust plc and Chair of Director of Reed Elsevier three other ships and Growth Partnership DGP operations in North joined that Board in 2005 She is a Non-executive of the Sage Group plc Knowledge Peers plc, Senior Mercia Technologies plc Group plc and also submarines.
Between but retained his America, Australia, and Chairman of Vitec Director of FARO from 2007 to 2013.
Independent Director of and Chair of its Chairman of its operational duties, Sir involvement in the DGP by the Middle East and Asia Group plc from 2004 to Technologies Inc. Hexcel Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee James held several positions taking up the role as Chair and, before that, he was 2012.
He was Senior Corp. and The Nordam a Non-executive Director having been previously and Reed Elsevier NV from at the MOD and gained of the Industry Liaison the Group Financial Independent Director of Group.
Previously, Lynn was of Thomson SA and Tangent Deputy Chair and Chair April 2003 until April 2013. cross-Whitehall experience Board of the UK Trade & Controller.
Earlier Catlin Group Limited from a Non-executive Director Communications plc, of the Audit Committee.
He worked for IBM for over while on secondment Investment Defence & experience included 2005 to 2011.
Michael was of Force Protection, Inc. and has also been Group She is also a member of 30 years where he occupied to HM Treasury.
various roles with previously a Director of Seabury Group, Graham Finance Director of Carlton the international advisory a number of senior Steve was also appointed CMG plc, Rio Tinto plc Williams plc where, at the Partners, Cordiem, Communications plc, board of PTT.
management positions, as a member of the Prime and Price Waterhouse.
time of the demerger in Chairman of the Flight Group Finance Director including General Manager She was a founder of Ministers Business Advisory 2000, he became CEO Safety Foundation, and of LASMO plc and a of IBM Europe, Middle East Imperial Innovations Group Group.
Also during the year of Kidde plc.
a member of the Trustee of Pilotlight.
and Africa and was a plc, leading it as CEO from under review, Steve ceased Management Advisory member of IBMs worldwide 2002 to July 2013, and to be a Non-executive Council of the Federal Management Council.
previously has served on a director of the UK MOD Aviation Administration.
variety of private company Research and Development Lynn retired from boards in engineering, Board.
Previously, Steve Honeywell International in healthcare and materials.
held various roles with 2005, where she was Vice Susan was a Trustee of MBDA from 2001 to 2014, President and General Fight for Sight from 2013 most recently as Managing Manager of Commercial to 2016.
Director, MBDA UK and Aerospace.
Prior to that, Technical Director for the she held a variety of roles in MBDA Group.
Before that, the commercial aerospace he held various roles in sector working for Allied engineering with Matra BAe Signal which acquired Dynamics from 1996 to Honeywell in 1999, 2001, and various roles the McDonnell Douglas with British Aerospace Corporation, Republic held from 1989 to 1996.
He was also Co-Chair of the National Defence Industries Research & Development Group.
58 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Mark Elliott Steve Wadey David Mellors Michael Harper Lynn Brubaker Admiral Sir James Ian Mason Paul Murray Susan Searle Jon Messent Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive Director Burnell-Nugent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary and Independent Non-executive Non-executive Director Group General Counsel Director Appointment Appointed Non-executive Appointed Chief Executive Appointed Chief Financial Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed as Company to the Board Chairman in March 2010.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Corporate governance statement continued Independence of Non-executive Directors B Of the current Directors of the company, the Board considers all the Non-executive Directors to be independent of QinetiQs executive Effectiveness management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent The Board considers that the skills and experience of its individual judgement.
The Board considers that more than half its members members, particularly in the areas of UK defence and security, the were independent Non-executive Directors throughout the last commercialisation of innovative technologies, corporate finance and financial year.
governance, international markets and risk management, have provided both support and challenge to the CEO, CFO and the The Non-executive Directors bring independent judgement on key executive management team during the year, in terms of both the issues affecting the Group and its business operations including formulation of the new strategy and transformation programme strategy, performance, resources including key appointments and and also in respect of business as usual items which require Board standards of conduct.
Their independence of character and integrity, oversight, such as financial and trading matters and significant together with the experience and skills that they bring to their duties, commercial projects.
prevent any individual or small group from dominating the decisionmaking of the Board as a whole.
Director training and development On appointment, Directors receive a tailored induction programme, The Nominations Committees role is to ensure that the composition comprising site visits, meetings with management, and training where of the Board and its Committees provides the optimum balance of required.
Lynn Brubaker, who joined the Board in January 2016, has skills, knowledge and experience, and to oversee succession planning visited facilities at QinetiQs Farnborough site where she met with for the Board and senior management.
The report of the Nominations senior management and has received a technical briefing in respect Committee can be found on page 62. of Directors responsibilities and listed company obligations from the companys legal advisor, Ashurst LLP.
Further site visits are being arranged.
On an ongoing basis, Directors receive appropriate training about the company and their duties.
The Directors are also required to complete the annual business ethics training, as noted on page 65.
The Company Secretariat organises site visits and training to suit individual requirements.
During the year, individual Non-executive Directors visited the Boscombe Down and Fort Halstead sites as a result of specific requests and the Board received collective training in the form of technical briefings from KPMG on accounting changes and from Ashurst on the Model Code and changes being brought in by the Market Abuse Regulation.
Non-executive Directors also personally arrange and attend external updates and training courses.
Succession planning The Nominations Committee oversees succession planning for the Board and senior management to ensure the optimum balance of skills and experience and to ensure that the requirements for updating Board membership are met on a timely basis.
The report of the Nominations Committee can be found on page 62.
60 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Performance of the Board Key findings QinetiQ continues each year to evaluate the performance of the The results of the review were presented by the Chairman at the Board and its Committees.
During the year, an external evaluation of Boards March meeting.
In terms of the fulfilment of its governance the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was carried out.
responsibilities, the overall conclusion of the 2016 review was that The previous external evaluation had taken place in 2012 and the the Board was satisfied that it continued to be effective in executing current evaluation had been deferred from 2015 owing to the change its duties.
The following were noted: of Chief Executive Officer during the year.
In the intervening years, the Boards effectiveness was assessed internally by way of The composition of the Board was rated highly.
It was noted that a questionnaire completed by Board members and individual a greater understanding of wider, international markets would be performance reviews carried out by the Chairman and the Senior required as the companys strategic priorities develop.
understanding of the views of shareholders and customers was considered to be appropriate, and it was considered that the Timing and appointment of external reviewer Committees supported the Board effectively.
During the year, the Board agreed the timings and process for the external evaluation.
A shortlist of potential external reviewers was Relationships between individual Board members and with senior drawn up by the Company Secretary and the Chairman.
Following management, including the US Proxy Board, were highly rated, and a selection process, Lintstock were appointed to carry out the it was noted that it was intended to further develop the relationship effectiveness reviews.
Lintstock had no other connection with the with the Proxy Board, subject to the requirements of the Proxy company.
The review took place in the final quarter of the year so regime.
that it could be fully focused on outside the financial reporting cycle and strategy meetings.
Going forwards, to maintain the Boards understanding and oversight of group strategy and the areas in which the company operates, the Review process Boards agenda would specify items covering strategic topics and The review consisted of a series of questionnaires in respect of each deep dives into key challenges, businesses, issues or geographies.
of the Board and its Committees and the Chairman, which were These items would include presentations by the leadership involved, completed by each director and the Company Secretary, and then the and would serve to facilitate the Boards focus on the development feedback from these questionnaires was used to facilitate one-to-one and composition of the executive management team.
In order to obtain a complete overview of the workings of the Board and its Committees, the Committee questionnaires Priorities for the coming year covered time management and composition, process and support, Priorities for the coming year were identified as: i a review of and the work of the Committee: and the Board questionnaire covered the Boards annual agenda, to focus on issues of strategy while composition, expertise, dynamics, time management, support, Board maintaining the reporting rigour on operational and governance Committees, strategic oversight, risk management and internal activity, and fulfilling the companys governance responsibilities: control, succession planning and HR management, and priorities ii oversight of HR policy and the development of a more in-depth for change.
The questionnaire in respect of the Chairman covered understanding of the management of employee engagement, relationships and communications with members of the Board, performance management, diversity and succession planning: availability, management of Board meetings and areas for iii reviewing Executive Committee succession planning: iv reviewing improvement.
the Boards composition and skills: v reviewing risk management and reporting processes: and vi ensuring further interaction with the leadership community and senior executives during the year.
An Audit Committee effectiveness review, which was undertaken independently of the Board effectiveness review, was also undertaken by Lintstock and followed the same process.
Details can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 73.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Corporate governance statement continued Report of the NominationsCommittee Main responsibilities The role of the Committee is to ensure that the composition of the Board and Committees comprises the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and to oversee succession planning for the Board and senior management.
It considers diversity, including skills mix, international industry experience and gender, when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
The Committees full terms of reference can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at www.
The Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2016, the Committee met on four occasions.
Dear shareholder, During the year under review, the Nominations Committee Overview continued the work which had begun in 2015 in respect of Board Key areas of focus during the year were: refreshment and diversity.
This process began in 2015 with the appointments of Ian Mason as a Non-executive Director and a Succession planning at Non-executive Director level: and Steve Wadey as the new CEO.
It continued during the year with the appointment of Lynn Brubaker as an additional Non-executive b Succession planning at senior management level.
Director and a number of senior appointments within the executive management team.
The work of the Committee during the year built on: i the considerable work that had been carried out in the previous year Going forwards, succession planning and a review of the balance to identify the requirements for updating the Board membership, of skills and experience will be key priorities.
and this was followed through: and ii overseeing the work being undertaken at the executive level to align executive succession Mark Elliott planning with the overall business transformation and strategy, which Nominations Committee Chairman was then presented to the Board as part of the overall strategy plan.
Membership and attendance during the year a Succession planning at Non-executive Director level Member Attendance Since 2014, to ensure the alignment of Board skills with the needs of Mark Elliott Committee Chair 4 4 the Groups strategy, the Committee has been focusing on the search Lynn Brubaker for potential Non-executive Director candidates.
The Zygos Partnership Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 4 4 has undertaken this search on the companys behalf.
The firm is a Ian Mason 4 4 signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which requires them to ensure that at least 30% of the candidates are Michael Harper 4 4 women, and it has no other connections with the company.
Following Paul Murray 4 4 a short-list review, potential candidates meet with the Chairman and Susan Searle 4 4 Directors on an individual basis prior to selection.
This search led to Steve Wadey 4 4 the appointment of Susan Searle in March 2014 and Ian Mason as an Lynn Brubaker joined the Board on 27 January 2016. additional Non-executive Director in June 2014.
In continuation of this process, Lynn Brubaker was appointed as an additional Non-executive Director in January 2016.
Details of all three Directors background Nominations Committee allocation of time and experience can be found on pages 58 to 59.
Lynn brings a US 2016 % perspective to the Board and has in-depth experience of management Governance 10.0 in large corporations, the commercial aviation industry and NED succession, skills and development 50.0 international commerce.
ED succession, skills and development 25.0 Senior Executive succession, skills and development 15.0 As noted on page 61, an action arising from the Boards annual effectiveness review is to review the Boards composition and skills to ensure the right balance of skills and experience as the company evolves in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The Chairman and the CEO will begin this process with the formulation of a skills matrix for consideration by the Board.
62 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information b Succession planning at senior management level Our areas of focus The Committee continues to maintain oversight of the processes for ensuring that succession plans are in place for the top layer of management, with a focus on improving the talent pipeline and diversity.
This process includes ensuring that the Board as a whole meets with senior management, that remuneration policy and 1 long-term incentives for senior management are reviewed by the Succession Planning Remuneration Committee and that the Chairman works with the CEO Board to review succession planning and to ensure the right mix of skills and experience at the executive level.
As part of the review of strategy  Building on prior year activity during the year, the Capability Director and the CEO presented to the  Appointment of new directors Board on succession plans for the top layer of management.
New  Ensuring balance of skills and experience appointments have been made, including a new Human Resources  Review of skills to meet needs of new strategy Director and a new Sales and Business Development Director, and adjustments made to the executive leadership team, to have in place the appropriate level of management to take QinetiQ forwards with its new vision and strategy.
Board Diversity Policy The Board Diversity Policy was approved by the Board in 2013.
The key statement and objectives of that policy the full text of which is available on the QinetiQ website www.
com about-us corporate-governance 2 are as follows: Succession Planning Statement: The QinetiQ Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity Senior Management of skills, background, knowledge, international and industry experience,  Oversight of processes for ensuring and gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken into consideration succession plans in place when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding  Focus on improving talent the foregoing, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
pipeline and diversity  Meetings with senior management Objectives: The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and  New executive appointments experience to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
during year The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are sufficiently experienced and independent in character and judgement.
The Board aimed to increase the proportion of women on the Board to 25% by 2015.
Thereafter, the Board aimed to maintain a minimum Board composition of 25% women, such percentage to be reviewed annually.
Progress against the policy: Having previously met the 2015 target of 25% of 3 the Board comprising women, changes since then led to a reduction in this proportion.
Following the appointment of Lynn Brubaker in January 2016, Diversity the proportion of women members of the Board increased to 22%, which Board Company-wide is working towards our original objective of 25%.
The Committee notes the  Board diversity policy recommendation in the five-year review of the Davies report published in late 2015 to achieve a minimum representation of 33% by 2020.
 Women represent 22% of Board  Diversity includes gender, skills and experience Gender diversity will be taken into consideration in the review of Board composition and skills which is planned for the coming year.
Any future  Company-wide diversity activity appointments will be made on merit, however, and will continue to take into account diversity, not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of skills and experience.
Details of company-wide diversity and inclusion activity can be found in the Corporate responsibility section on page 28.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Corporate governance statement continued Risk reporting is embedded in the management of the business C through the Governance Committee which was merged into the Executive Committee on 1 April 2016 and Quarterly Business Accountability Reviews which changed to monthly Business Performance Reviews on 1 April 2016 and feeds into Group strategy at the executive and Board responsibility for risk management and internal control Board level.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding Risk assurance shareholders interests and the companys assets.
The system is Risk assurance activity conforms to the three lines of defence model designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of and is performed by 1 the businesses, through operations and failure to achieve business objectives, and, like any appropriate or assurance managers, 2 oversight functions, including the Safety and proportionate system of corporate internal control, cannot provide Operational Assurance team, and 3 Internal Audit, reporting to the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Governance Committee whose activities were merged into the Executive Committee from 1 April 2016 and the Boards Audit How we manage risk Committee in respect of financial risks, and the Boards Risk & CSR Committee in respect of non-financial risks.
Further details can be Risk management page 64 managers identify and evaluate found on page 65 in the Internal control section.
risks: design and operation of internal controls to mitigate risks.
Risk assurance page 64 oversight by operations and The reports of the Audit Committee and of the Risk & CSR Committee assurance managers, oversight functions and the Board can be found on pages 70 and 75 respectively.
Details of key risks can be found in the Principal risks and Self-certification process page 64 annual process of uncertainties section of this Annual Report on pages 42 to 49. hierarchical self-certification.
Internal control page 65 delegated authorities: policies, Risk assurance activity was ongoing during the year under review.
procedures and codes of practice.
The following areas were covered bi-monthly by the Governance Committee and then key issues reported four times a year to the Internal audit function page 67 provides assurance Risk & CSR Committee: of the effectiveness of the control environment.
Committee oversight of risk management page 67 Updates in respect of general risk governance from the Group Director: Safety and Governance.
Board oversight of risk management page 67 Reviews of divisional risk registers and moderation to form the Board statements relating to risk management page 68 Group Risk Register.
Risk management Quarterly reports from the Internal Audit function in respect of QinetiQs managers are responsible for the identification and the effective management of Group risks and the risk management evaluation of significant risks, both financial and non-financial, process.
applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and Challenge to risk identification by business divisions and functions.
operation of suitable internal controls to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which are related to the achievement of business Use of the Business Assurance Tool to manage effective internal objectives, are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated control against regulatory and operational risks.
with a variety of internal and external events, including control Regularly requiring risk owners to report their activity to the breakdowns, competition, disruption, regulatory requirements, Risk & CSR Committee further details can be found on page 43. and natural and other catastrophes.
The Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee regularly review significant risks Self-certification process to the business.
An annual process of hierarchical self-certification, which provides a documented and auditable trail of accountability for the operation of QinetiQs risk management processes are defined in the Groups Operating the system of internal control, is in operation.
This self-certification Framework and business management systems and mirror the Institute process is informed by a rigorous and structured self-assessment that of Risk Managements guidance as detailed in the figure on page 42. addresses compliance with Group policy.
It provides for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
64 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Internal control Ethics QinetiQs businesses are responsible for ensuring that a robust risk and The company provides employees with guidance to assist them in making control environment is in place as part of their day-to-day operations.
informed ethical decisions on a day-to-day basis, including the companys Business assurance and operations managers oversee this process and Code of Conduct, mandatory annual ethics training for all employees and a clear set of delegated authorities is in place, covering financial and the companys Directors, and links to the country risk table and review non-financial activities, and is consistent with effective operational panel processes for doing business in high risk countries.
control and risk management and the Boards risk appetite.
During the year under review, the business was guided by two key resources Further details regarding activity in respect of corporate managed by the Safety and Operational Assurance team: responsibility, including in respect of business ethics and anti-bribery risk management, can be found in the Corporate responsibility section on pages 26 to 33.
The Way We Work was applicable to all staff and covered three key pillars of the way the company operates: Organisation, Risk Risk management and internal control: financial reporting Management and Assurance, and Key Business Processes.
It was process underpinned by key business policies, the Operating Framework The following elements provide assurance in respect of the financial referred to below and our culture, values and brand: and reporting process and preparation of consolidated accounts: The Operating Framework Business Management System, which contains the policies, procedures and codes of practice which the financial management and control framework: are expected to be complied with across the business, either as specifically set out in the Operating Framework or by adopting the companys finance function: similar policies and processes to fit with local structures and the internal control and risk management systems: requirements.
the internal audit function: With effect from 1 April 2016, The Way We Work was replaced the external audit function: and by a new framework of Operating Principles and associated Organisational Notes to support the new operating model and oversight by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The new framework applies to every employee within the QinetiQ Group, including all subsidiaries, with the exception The company operates a financial management and control framework, of Foster-Miller, Inc. due to the proxy arrangement as detailed on comprising a system of targets, reporting external and internal and page 66.
Foster-Miller, Inc. is, however, an active and supportive controls, that is embedded throughout the businesses and on which participant in this overall framework and their President is a member progress is reported to the Audit Committee and to the Board.
The of the new Executive Committee.
finance function consists of different financial reporting teams who report to the CFO.
The Group Finance team comprises suitably qualified Confidential reporting process and experienced professionals, including accountants.
It is responsible The company has in place a confidential reporting process which for the preparation of the interim and annual reports and for internal is detailed on the companys intranet.
If an individual does not feel financial reporting to senior management and the Board.
To ensure a that they can resolve any concerns with the company directly, either consistency of approach and accuracy in financial reporting, the team through discussions with their line manager or directly with the provides advice on accounting and financial reporting issues to Company Secretary or Group Internal Audit Manager, they can use QinetiQs businesses and sets the Groups accounting policies which are an externally provided confidential internet and telephone reporting contained in the Finance Accounting Manual.
The team liaises with the system, further details can be found in the Corporate responsibility external auditor.
All concerns are passed by the external third party to the Group Internal Audit Manager who will ensure that they The internal control and risk management systems described on are held in strict confidence and are properly investigated.
Reports pages 64 and 77 apply to the companys process of financial reporting on confidential reporting activity and the outcome of investigations and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
The internal audit and are regularly reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee external audit functions, and the reviews by the Audit Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups confidential reporting the Board, provide a structured approach to the review and challenge process during the year, as detailed on page 72. of financial information and financial reporting.
The report of the Audit Committee can be found on page 70 and the work of the Board Anti-bribery and the prevention of corruption in respect of financial oversight can be found on pages 55 and 67.
QinetiQ has internal procedures in place that are designed to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, and other international regulations and best practice relating to the prevention of corruption, which are applicable to its business.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Corporate governance statement continued Management and control of US subsidiaries In terms of the power to govern, the Proxy agreement vests certain The US Global Products division, trading as QinetiQ North America powers solely with the Proxy holders and certain powers solely with and comprising approximately 92% of the total US revenue excluding QinetiQ.
For example, the Proxy holders cannot carry out any of the Cyveillance, Inc. in 2016, operates under a Proxy arrangement, below without QinetiQs express approval: as detailed below, with the remainder of the US business operating outside the Proxy regime and therefore following the same reporting sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital assets or the business lines and processes as the Groups other, non-regulated businesses.
of FMI: pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of FMI for purposes other US Global Products division and the Proxy arrangement than obtaining working capital or funds for capital improvements: The US Global Products division, trading as QinetiQ North America, is managed via Foster-Miller, Inc. FMI, a wholly-owned subsidiary merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve FMI: and of QinetiQ in the US.
It has been placed under a Proxy arrangement file or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy laws as it is required by the US National Industrial Security Program to or similar law or statute of any state or any foreign country.
maintain facility security clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence.
Under the new Proxy arrangement Unlike minority interest holders with protective veto rights, QinetiQ put in place in 2014, following the sale of the US Services business, can unilaterally require the above to be carried out and these are, FMI and the US Department of Defense DoD are parties to a Proxy therefore, considered to be significant participative features.
In agreement that regulates the management and operation of FMI.
addition, QinetiQ can require the payment of dividends, and the Pursuant to this Proxy agreement, QinetiQ has appointed pay-down of parent company loans, from FMI.
four US citizens who hold the requisite US security clearances as Proxy holders to exercise the voting rights in FMI.
The company maintains its involvement in FMIs activities through normal business activity and liaison with the Chair of the Proxy Board.
During the year there was a change in Proxy holders following the QinetiQs CEO and CFO attended two meetings of the Proxy Board death of Len Moodispaw.
Len made a significant contribution to the during the year under review.
The President of FMI is a member of the Group and will be sadly missed.
The current Proxy holders comprise new Executive Committee as detailed on page 56.
FMI commercial David Carey, John Currier, Tom Mills and Scott Webster.
The Proxy and governance activity is included in the business update provided holders are also Directors of FMI, with David Carey as Chairman.
In in the regular executive report to the Board.
As detailed in the Audit addition to their powers as Directors, the Proxy holders have power Committee report on page 70, a local accountancy firm was engaged under the Proxy arrangements to exercise all prerogatives of share during 2015 to undertake an internal audit of FMI key processes and ownership of FMI.
The Proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, further internal audit work is planned for 2016.
This activity is subject to perform their role in the best interests of QinetiQ as shareholder always to the confines of the Proxy regime to ensure that it meets including the legitimate economic interest, and in a manner the requirement that FMI must conduct its business affairs without consistent with the national security interests of the US.
QinetiQ external control or influence, and the requirements necessary to Group plc does not have any representation on the Board of FMI.
protect the US national security interest.
QinetiQ Group plc may not remove the Proxy holders other than for acts of gross negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach of the Proxy agreement and always only with the consent of the US Defense Security Service.
66 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Internal audit function Board oversight of risk management The internal audit function, which is independent of the business The Board oversees the system of risk management and internal and has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee, provides control by means of the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR assurance to the Board and its Committees over the effectiveness Committee in conjunction with the risk management and assurance of the internal control environment.
The programme of work processes details in this section.
Any matters of particular concern undertaken by the internal audit function is approved in advance are escalated for presentation at a Board meeting by the relevant by the Audit Committee.
It is prioritised according to risks identified personnel.
Examples of such escalation are consideration of cyber risk by the Group through its risk management processes.
The Board routinely challenges management to regular discussions are held between the internal audit function and ensure that the systems of internal control are constantly improving the external auditor regarding internal audit reports, risks, internal to maintain their effectiveness.
Once a year, the CEO presents to the audit plans and the wider control environment.
Board on the system of internal control in operation during the year.
Committee oversight of risk management At its meeting in March 2016, the Board reviewed the effectiveness The risk management process and the system of internal control of the system of internal control that was in operation during the necessary to manage risks are managed by the Audit Committee financial year ended 31 March 2016.
Details of specific risk review financial risks and the Risk & CSR Committee non-financial risks.
activity undertaken during the year by the Audit and Risk & CSR The full Board attends these Committee meetings, either as a Committees, together with the current risk registers, were presented Committee member or as a guest so as to receive at first-hand the by the CEO.
Details of the Committee memberships are set out on page 5.
The internal audit function independently In the light of the new strategic priorities and organisational reviews the risk identification and control processes implemented structure, the Board has requested the Risk & CSR Committee to by management and reports to the respective Committee.
undertake a review of risk management and its reporting for the coming year.
The Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee also review the assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
The reports of both Committees can be found on pages 70 and 75 respectively.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Corporate governance statement continued Board statements relating torisk management Directors statement in respect of fair, balanced Going concern The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to and understandable assessment affect its future development and performance, are set out on pages All of the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, 2 to 49.
The Chief Financial Officers review on pages 38 to 41 sets is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information out details of the financial position of the Group, the cash flows, necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and committed borrowing facilities, liquidity, and the Groups policies and performance, business model and strategy.
In this context, the processes for managing its capital and financial risks.
Note 27 on page coordination and review of the Group-wide input into the Annual 129 to the financial statements also provides details of the Groups Report is a vital part of the control process upon which the Directors hedging activities, financial instruments, and its exposure to liquidity rely and is an exercise which spans a period wider than the timetable and credit risk.
for compiling the Annual Report itself.
Critically these processes include the controls the business operates throughout the year to The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through identify key financial and operational issues.
Further details can its available cash funds and its bank facilities.
The market conditions be found in the report of the Audit Committee on page 70. in which the Group operates have been, and are expected to continue to be, challenging as spending from the Groups key customers in its Board assessment of principal risks primary markets in the UK and US remains under pressure.
Despite The Board confirms that it has carried out a robust assessment of these challenges, the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned the principal risks facing the company, including those that would to manage its overall business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has liquidity.
The way in which the Board understands and manages adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the risk is set out on pages 64 to 77 and details of key risks and their foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the management and mitigation can be found on pages 42 to 49. going-concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Board level oversight is carried out by the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee.
As noted in the previous paragraph, at its The Group is exposed to various risks and uncertainties, the principal meeting in March, the CEO presented details of the risk review ones being summarised in the Principal risks and uncertainties section activities that had taken place during the year.
Crystallisation of such risks, to the extent not fully mitigated, would lead to a negative impact on the Groups financial Board review of the effectiveness of risk results but none are deemed sufficiently material to prevent the Group from continuing as a going concern for the next 12 months.
management and internal control processes The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the companys risk management and internal control systems in operation during the year, as required by the Code.
The Board considers that the risk review activities undertaken during the year under review, as presented by the CEO at the Boards March meeting, amounted to an effective system being in place to ensure that all aspects of risk management and internal control had been considered for the year under review.
Details of the companys principal risks and uncertainties and how they are managed and mitigated can be found on pages 42 to 49.
Details of the companys risk management and internal control systems are set out in this Corporate governance statement on pages 64 to 77, and the reports of the Audit Committee and Risk & CSR Committee in respect of the oversight of risk management can be found on pages 70 and 75 respectively.
68 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The period over which we confirm longer-term viability Viability statement Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not Longer-term viability assessment: assessing the prospects be viable over a longer period than three years, given the inherent ofthe Group uncertainty involved, the period over which the Directors consider The Groups corporate planning processes involve the following it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups individual processes covering differing time frames: longer-term viability is the three-year period to 31 March 2019.
This period, essentially the period used for our mid-term business 1.
An annual Strategic Plan or Strategic Plan update process that looks plans that are subject to stress-testing and scenario planning, at the detailed financials for the subsequent three years, together has been selected because it presents the Board and readers of with an overview of one additional year, to 31 March 2020. the annual report with a reasonable degree of confidence whilst still providing an appropriate longer-term outlook.
An annual budget process that covers the subsequent two years.
A bi-annual detailed forecast process to update the view of the Confirmation of longer-term viability first budget year the year now in progress.
As noted on the previous page, the Directors confirm that their assessment of the principal risks facing the Group was robust.
A rolling monthly latest best estimate process to assess significant upon the robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group changes to the budget forecast for the year in progress.
and their stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects, all of which are described in this statement, the Directors have a The corporate planning process is underpinned by assessing scenarios reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in and risks that encompass a wide spectrum of potential outcomes, operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 both favourable and adverse.
The downside risk scenarios are March 2019. designed to explore the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of all the significant risks set out on pages 44 to 49, or a combination of those risks.
The scenarios are designed to be severe but plausible, and take full account of the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks, and that realistically would be open to them in the circumstances.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems, as discussed on page 67, is taken into account.
Alongside the annual review of risk scenarios applied to the strategic plan, performance is rigorously monitored to alert the Board and Operating Committee to the potential crystallisation of a key risk.
We consider that this stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Corporate governance statement continued Report of the AuditCommittee The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray.
The Board considers him to have recent and relevant financial experience.
He was formerly Group Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc and LASMO plc, and he is currently Audit & Risk Committee Chairman at Royal Mail Group plc.
The Board considers the members of the Committee to be independent.
They bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior executive positions to the company.
Details of their background and experience can be found on pages 58 and 59.
The CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Internal Audit Manager and representatives of the external auditor normally attend Audit Committee meetings.
Main responsibilities Dear shareholder, The Audit Committee monitors the Groups integrity in financial I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee on the work reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk carried out during the last financial year.
I continue to foster an open but challenging dialogue between the Committee, management, and internal management framework.
The Committee has an annual calendar of and external auditors.
This way of working continues, with reports from the activities, in addition to which it identifies particular areas of focus executive and internal and external auditors being scrutinised and challenged during the year.
The Committees full terms of reference can be found where appropriate, and I intend to continue with this robust approach, in line in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at www.
with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out in this report.
The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least four times a In addition to reviewing the Groups financial reporting processes and year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2016, the Committee external audit effectiveness, other matters that we considered during met on five occasions.
the year were the process for the forthcoming external audit tender and a review of the process and requirements for the longer-term viability statement.
Further details are set out in this report.
The external auditor has the right to request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be convened.
During the past financial year, and in As noted on page 61, an external review of the effectiveness of the Board accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee met with each of and its Committees was carried out during the year.
The outcome of the QinetiQs external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager on two review in respect of the Audit Committee is set out on page 73 and I look separate occasions, without Executive Directors present, to discuss the forward to working with the Chair of the Risk & CSR Committee in the audit process and assure itself regarding resourcing, auditor coming months to review the processes for risk management and reporting.
Paul Murray Overview Audit Committee Chairman This report describes the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities, including: Membership and attendance during the year Member Attendance a t he significant issues considered by the Committee in relation Paul Murray Committee Chair 5 5 to the preparation and reporting of the full and half-year financial Lynn Brubaker 1 1 statements, and how these issues were addressed: Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 5 5 b assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable Michael Harper 5 5 requirement: Ian Mason 5 5 Susan Searle 5 5 c the review of internal controls: Lynn Brubaker joined the Board on 27 January 2016. d the review of various individual matters during the year: e annual effectiveness reviews: and Audit Committee allocation of time f external audit: the provision of non-audit services, auditor 2016 % re-appointment and the re-tender of the external audit.
Governance 13.0 Financial Reporting 47.0 Audit 25.0 The Committee received presentations, reports and analyses from Risk management and internal controls 15.0 the CFO, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Internal Audit Manager and the external auditor during the course of its meetings.
70 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information a The significant issues considered by the Committee in b Assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable relation to the preparation and reporting of the full and requirement: half-year financial statements, and how these issues were The Committee was required to provide advice to the Board to meet addressed: with the requirements of the Code on whether the annual report The Committee reviewed whether suitable accounting policies had been and accounts, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and adopted, whether management had made the appropriate estimates and understandable assessment of the companys financial position judgements, and sought support from the external auditor to assess and future prospects and provide all information necessary to a them.
To facilitate this process, the Committee received presentations shareholder to assess the Groups performance, business model and from the CFO and the Group Financial Controller in respect of goodwill, strategy.
To enable it to do so, the CFO and members of management accounting provisions for key contracts, litigation, trade controls and the presented to the Committee details of the processes followed by treatment for taxation.
It also received a report from the external auditor management in preparing the accounts.
In particular, the Committee on the outcome of the audit.
noted: The Committee reviewed the following main issues for the periods the Group has developed a clear strategy, which has been ended 30 September 2015 and 31 March 2016: presented to the Board for review during the year by business leaders, with updates on progress at each Board meeting: the basis for, and judgements made by management in quarterly business reviews are undertaken by senior management determining, the liabilities recorded for litigation, onerous which include monitoring business progress against budget: contracts, potential claims and other disputes: business performance is monitored by the Board as detailed on the provisions for income tax and deferred tax, and the page 54: disclosures associated with the election into the research and development expenditure credit RDEC regime, specifically the key individuals from appropriate business divisions and functions treatment of both the 36.8m RDEC receipt and the write-off of contribute to, or are involved in the verification of, the content the previously capitalised 25.2m deferred tax asset as specific of the Annual Report: adjusting items: the company has an Annual Report working group, comprising the carrying values of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, individuals from the Finance, Investor Relations, Assurance, HR, specifically the impairment of goodwill associated with the US Group Strategy, Company Secretariat and Communications Global Products CGU.
The major assumptions impacting on the functions, which adheres to a timetable of actions for the production NPV of future expected cash flows were also discussed.
Certain and review of the Annual Report: discount rate assumptions and market growth forecasts are the Annual Report working group is aware of the fair, balanced and advised by external consultants: understandable requirements and is tasked with ensuring that the assumptions used to value the net pension liability of 37.7m Annual Report takes account of those requirements: and as advised by the companys external actuaries : a checklist of considerations to ensure the requirements were the disclosures in the preliminary announcement and annual met was completed by the working group and presented to the report and accounts, in particular those relating to risk, goodwill Committee in order to provide assurance to the Committee and to and tax: and the Board.
The checklist includes areas such as ensuring what must be included to satisfy regulatory requirements, consulting with the process for making the longer-term viability statement and relevant experienced people to contribute and review each section, the assessment of different scenarios that could arise, to enable avoiding where possible the use of boiler-plate language and jargon, the Committee to make a recommendation to the Board at its ensuring that all matters are discussed and all issues reported at May meeting.
Further details can be found on page 69. an appropriate level of aggregation, with tables of reconciliations supported by and consistent with the accompanying narrative.
The reviews were carried out by way of papers presented by the CFO, There is an opportunity for contributors to provide comments on the Group Financial Controller, the external auditor and the internal areas where there were difficulties or details of specific issues that auditor, and through discussions with management.
Based upon the have been considered.
business assurance process and discussions with management and the external auditor, the Committee was satisfied that the accounting The external auditor confirmed their satisfaction with the standard disclosures and assumptions were reasonable and appropriate for a achieved.
The Boards statement in this respect can be found on page 68. business of the Groups size and complexity, that the external auditor had fulfilled its responsibilities in scrutinising the financial statements for any material misstatements and that the disclosures were satisfactory.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Corporate governance statement continued c Review of internal controls: The internal audit function continues to work closely with US The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the systems of internal management to gain assurance that an effective control environment control to gain assurance that an effective control framework is in place.
An internal audit of key control processes was undertaken is maintained.
Reports on the effective operation of the control during the year utilising a US-based accountancy firm, and their report framework are received from management and reviewed summarising findings and recommendations was provided to the by the Committee along with key policies and processes.
In addition, the Executive Directors attended meetings of the US Board during the year and further such meetings are planned.
At four meetings during the year, reports on the operation of internal controls and risk management processes are also received from the The Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, reliable internal audit function, including the confidential reporting process.
and timely information from management in the last financial year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Particular attention is given to the timely and effective implementation of remedial actions, either identified by the business directly, or by the d Review of various individual matters during the year: internal audit function.
The internal audit functions risk based strategic The Committee has an annual calendar of matters which it considers.
and annual plan is presented to, and scrutinised twice a year by, the The following matters are examples of such items which the Committee to provide assurance that resources are adequate and Committee considers as part of its annual cycle: directed towards key risk areas.
The annual plan is structured to ensure that all significant financial and non-financial risks are reviewed within Group Tax policies and issues: The CFO presented a paper to update a rolling three-year strategic plan.
The audits include the review the Committee on the Groups tax priorities and issues.
The Committee of financial systems, programmes and projects, as well as the considered these in the light of regulatory requirements and the Groups management of specific risks identified through the Groups risk profit mix.
Among more general matters, procurement rules, R&D tax management processes.
Internal audit activity in the year continued relief, the use of tax losses and the effective tax rate were discussed.
to indicate that, overall, an effective control environment was in place, with an open culture of continuous improvement being demonstrated Annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference and Annual by regular management requests for internal audits to be undertaken.
Schedule of Activities: The views of the Committee were sought on the Committees Terms of Reference and annual schedule of activities.
The Committee also regularly reviews the effectiveness of the financial As a result of the review, changes were made to the Terms of Reference risk management framework, including reviewing key financial risks and to include a reference to the Committees obligation to run audit assessing the effectiveness of managements remedial action plans.
tenders and to procure the production of the longer-term viability The financial risk register is presented by management to the statement.
The annual schedule of activities was updated to include Committee at four meetings each year, noting i risks being actively a quality of earnings report for the May meeting.
managed through internal mitigation activity, including the timeframe for current mitigation to improve the risk position, ii risks managed at post-mitigation levels but heavily influenced by external factors and or that require ongoing monitoring, and iii retired risks.
The process in respect of QinetiQ North America is adjusted to take into account the Proxy arrangements referred to on page 66.
The executive management function has regular contact with the Chair of the Proxy Board and with US executive management, and the Groups internal controls have been applied as far as possible within the requirements of the Proxy regime.
72 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information e Annual effectiveness reviews: Review of the effectiveness of the external audit process The Committees September meeting considered the processes The Committees September meeting considered the approach for to be followed for the various governance reviews.
monitoring the effectiveness and independence of the external audit process in the light of the requirements of the Code and Financial It agreed that the review of the effectiveness of the Committee itself Reporting Council FRC guidance.
At this meeting, it was agreed that and of the internal audit function would be taken alongside the Board an effectiveness review would follow the same format as used in the effectiveness review to be carried out externally.
The approach for previous year and be undertaken by way of questionnaire and would the review of the external audit would follow the same, questionnaireinclude collecting the views of management and employees who are based process as for the previous year.
specifically involved in supporting the external audit work, feedback from the CFO and Group Financial Controller and an open Committee Audit Committee effectiveness review discussion without external auditor being present.
As reported on page 61, the external effectiveness evaluation of the Board and its Committees had been deferred from 2015 owing to the The review covered a range of topics, some of which are set out below, change of Chief Executive Officer during the year.
An evaluation had with a summary of their outcomes: been carried out instead by way of an externally provided online questionnaire tool.
Audit scope: The audit scope adequately addresses the key financial risks of the Group and is discussed with management The following key actions had been noted from the 2015 Audit in a timely manner.
Committee effectiveness review: Audit quality and approach: The audit approach demonstrates a good understanding of the business and provides adequate the Committee members would seek to undertake routine, engagement with, and challenge to, management.
externally sourced training to keep up to date with changes in regulation and guidance: Communication: The interaction between the auditor and management is effective, timely and allows for accounting the Committee would review the annual calendar of activities treatment to be agreed and issues highlighted and resolved to ensure the most efficient and effective way to complete promptly.
its oversight activities: and Governance and independence: There are appropriate structures the Committee would continue to support the Remuneration in place to ensure the independence of the auditor and to provide Committee in assessing quality of earnings decisions that drove adequate challenge to management.
long-term incentive and bonus outcomes.
The auditor was provided with details of the review and its results, and All three items had been covered in the following year.
Externally provided their comments on each of the topics covered.
In particular, sourced training is made available to all Directors, either as a Board in the auditor noted that there was scope to improve further the advance the form of a technical briefing, or individually on request: there is a planning process, that the use of data analytics would be beneficial in standing item for the review of the annual calendar of activities during respect of certain parts of the audit, and that they perceived a strong the year: and an additional action has been added to the annual working relationship between management and the finance function.
calendar in respect of the quality of earnings review.
The outcome of the review was considered at the May 2016 As detailed on page 61, the 2016 external review was carried out by Committee meeting.
The Committee noted the following matters Lintstock by way of an initial questionnaire which was then supported which were reported to the Board: by individual interviews.
The Audit Committee questionnaire covered There had been an improvement in all areas when comparing the the following areas: time management and composition, processes results to those for FY15, and the initiatives taken by the auditor and support, the work of the Committee and priorities for change.
following the previous review had had a positive impact.
These initiatives had included ensuring that audit plans and data The outcome of the review was considered at the Committees March requests were sent as early as possible prior to, and during, the meeting.
The effectiveness of the Committee was rated highly.
As audit, dealing with any issues with businesses as they arise and noted in the Boards priorities for the coming year on page 61, one ensuring that the audit team are fully briefed on key issues before of the priorities is to review risk management and reporting processes, the start of the audit.
with the review being led by the Chairs of the Audit Committee and the The auditor had confirmed that meetings between executive Risk & CSR Committee.
management and the auditor outside of the ongoing interaction with finance led to a better understanding of the business issues, Other recommendations to improve the performance of the Audit performance and key challenges going forward.
Committee over the coming year included receiving an update on the processes for the risk management and controls of the US business and to continue with Committee training to keep appraised of legislative evolution and best practice.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Corporate governance statement continued f External audit: the provision of non-audit services, auditor Auditor re-appointment and re-tender process re-appointment and the re-tender of the external audit At its May meeting, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness and the independence of the external auditor during the year.
The members External auditor independence: non-audit services: of the Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the performance of KPMG as the companys auditor in the last financial Policy on the regulation of non-audit work and safeguarding year and therefore the Committee has recommended to the Board that auditor independence KPMG be reappointed for the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
The company views it as essential that the external auditor is both independent of any conflict of interest and perceived to be so.
At its meeting in March, the Committee considered the timings for To safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the following the tender of the external audit.
The Committee notes the provision process is operated by the company: in the UK Corporate Governance Code that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit out to tender at least every 10 years and the The company has embedded a Code of Practice which sets out the requirements of the new EU audit regulation which takes effect principles for regulating the award of non-audit work to the external in member states from June 2016. auditor within its Operating Framework.
The policy clearly articulates the non-audit services which are prohibited, the non-audit services which KPMG has been the auditor of the QinetiQ Group since its formation in can be purchased and the key approvals that are necessary prior to the 2001 as the result of a competitive tender, and the companys auditor provision of non-audit work.
Any non-audit services conducted by the since its incorporation in 2002.
During that time, there have been auditor require the consent of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit periodic changes in audit partners in accordance with professional Committee before being initiated: any services exceeding 50,000 in and regulatory standards to protect independence and objectivity.
value require the consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
A rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner was last undertaken during 2012, at which time the second audit partner was appointed since In line with this policy, the Committee ensures that any other advisory the companys flotation in 2006. and or consulting services provided by the external auditor do not conflict with its statutory audit responsibilities and are conducted The company stated in the previous annual report and accounts that through entirely separate working teams: such advisory and or it was its intention to align the process for putting the external audit consulting services generally only cover regulatory reporting, contract out to tender with the conclusion in 2017 of the five-year tax, and mergers and acquisitions work.
tenure of the audit partner.
The Committee maintains this view and it has recommended to the Board that a tender of the audit be carried The Code of Practice enables the Committee to take corrective action out during 2016, with the selected auditor being proposed for if it believes that there is a risk of the external auditors independence appointment at the 2017 Annual General Meeting in respect of the being undermined through the award of such work.
financial year ending on 31 March 2018.
There is no restriction on the choice of auditor.
The process will include the appointment of a It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be appointed to sub-committee to carry out preliminary discussions, face-to-face a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without the prior approval meetings, followed by the submission of proposals, presentations from of the CFO.
short-listed firms and, following consideration by the Audit Committee, a recommendation from the Audit Committee to the Board for its Review of non-audit work during the year consideration, in readiness for a 2017 2018 accounting year start date.
The Committee regularly reviews the cost and nature of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor during the financial year.
It is included at regular intervals in the Committees annual schedule as a standing item.
An update on non-audit fees was tabled at three Committee meetings during the year.
In the last financial year, the fees relating to non-audit services amounted to 199,000 2015: 99,000, being approximately 33% of the audit fee and 25% of the total fees.
The fees related predominantly to the review of US Services business closing working capital, following the sale of that business in May 2014.
The Committee had concluded, prior to engaging KPMG for the provision of these services, that there had not been any conflict of interest that might compromise the independence of KPMGs audit work.
Details of the external auditors remuneration can be found in note 4 on page 115.
74 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Report of the Risk & CSRCommittee Main responsibilities The Committee has three primary functions: to oversee the sound operation of the companys risk management systems: to monitor non-financial risk exposures, including security, trade controls, ethics, corporate responsibility and health, safety and environment: and to monitor adherence to the generic MOD compliance system.
com Dear shareholder, about-us corporate-governance.
I am pleased to report that, during the year, the Committee continued to carry out its core functions with the support of the executive Governance The Committee has an annual calendar of activities and meets as Committee in respect of non-financial risk management and oversight.
The necessary, although normally not less than four times a year.
During annual calendar of activity, together with the in-depth review of red risks the financial year ended 31 March 2016, the Committee met on four and deep dives into key risk areas, has continued to provide a firm basis on occasions.
which the Committee is able to oversee the operation of the non-financial risk management processes within the Group.
At each meeting an introductory The Governance Committee continued to report, via the CEO, to the note of the key issues for that particular meeting ensured that all relevant Risk & CSR Committee and covered areas such as the status of matters were considered and dealt with appropriately.
In addition, a separate section of the Committee papers contained supplementary materials to non-financial risks identified on the Group risk register, assurance ensure that there was sufficient detail for those Committee members who around regulatory compliance and emerging risks.
wished to have more in-depth information on a particular matter.
Regular updates from management responsible for specific areas such as corporate Overview responsibility or international trade served to further the Committees During the year, the Committee continued to carry out its core understanding of risks and how they are mitigated.
functions by way of regular reporting in accordance with its annual calendar.
The Committee continued to oversee health, safety and Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent environment, trade controls, corporate responsibility, ethics and Risk & CSR Committee Chairman security through quarterly reports from the heads of those functions in the business.
Details of key activities in respect of health, safety Membership and attendance during the year and environment and business ethics are set out in the Corporate Member Attendance responsibility section on pages 26 to 33.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 4 4 Committee Chair Key areas of focus of the Committee during the year were: Lynn Brubaker Mark Elliott 4 4 a a review of the Groups risk management processes Michael Harper 4 4 Ian Mason 4 4 b generic MOD compliance system: David Mellors 4 4 c a review of the risk register in accordance with FRC Paul Murray 4 4 recommendations: and Susan Searle 4 4 Steve Wadey 4 4 d effectiveness review.
Lynn Brubaker joined the Board on 27 January 2016.
Further details are set out overleaf.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties can be found on pages 42 to 49 of the Strategic report.
Risk & CSR Committee allocation of time 2016 % Governance 14.0 Safety and Governance Directors updates 19.0 Corporate Social Responsibility 21.0 Internal Audit 13.0 Specific risk reviews deep dives 33.0 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Corporate governance statement continued a A review of the Groups risk management processes: The presentation had detailed an action plan which covered areas Each Committee meeting during the year was structured so that such as a security improvement programme, a risk chart, how to it received the following regular reports: a report from the Group manage the insider threat and the expected outputs from that Director-Safety and Governance, a report from the Group Directorprocess, which would include a code of practice developed in Corporate Responsibility and an update from the Group Head of conjunction with the HR, Legal and Security functions, and Internal Audit.
The report from the Group Director Safety and implementation of higher level controls for the I. T. networks which Governance covered key areas of risk management activity, including would be measured against a widely recognised industry standard.
health and safety, international trade controls and Proxy regime The Committee had endorsed the plan and requested that the compliance.
It included a high level summary of changes to nonGovernance Committee review the Risk Map categories relating to financial risks, an overview of assurance activity, and any other items loss of data and that it receive an update on progress at its May 2016 to bring to the Committees attention.
The report from the Group meeting.
Further to the presentation, the Group Communications Director-Corporate Responsibility covered areas such as business and Investor Relations Director presented to the Committees January ethics training, emerging reputational risks, anti-bribery and meeting on the communications response to a security breach.
corruption, trading policy and Modern Slavery Act reporting.
The report from the Group Head of Internal Audit provided an update on b Generic MOD compliance system: internal audit activity since the last meeting, details of progress with A key aspect of the Committees work is the oversight of the MODs audit recommendations and details of any overdue recommended generic compliance system.
This is integral to the work of QinetiQ actions from internal audits.
in its relationship with the UK Government.
In addition to the standing reports detailed above, a series of The generic compliance system is designed to give the MOD customer deep dives are scheduled for the course of each year, to facilitate confidence that QinetiQ is able to provide impartial advice during any an in-depth review and discussion of key risks.
The following are competitive evaluation of a procurement where the Group wishes to examples of deep dive reviews carried out by the Committee during operate on both the buy and the supply sides.
The aim is to achieve the year: a balance between meeting the needs of the procurement customers in the MOD principally Defence Equipment & Support and the need to allow QinetiQ the flexibility to exploit research into the supply Cyber Security Protecting Data chain and pursue its planned commercial activities, without Engineering and Product Safety compromising the defence or security interests of the UK.
The Board nominates two senior executives to act as Compliance Business Strategy Implementation Director and Compliance Audit Director.
International Business Governance During the year the Committee approved the appointment For each deep dive, the relevant senior manager for the business area of the Group Director-Safety and Governance as Compliance presented to the Committee and Committee members were able to Implementation Director in place of the Strategic Business Director challenge the details provided and receive further details or give Defence, following a review of the oversight process and approval guidance as necessary.
The Business Strategy deep dive was considered at the Committees Oversight of the operation of the compliance system is provided September meeting.
The Group Strategy Director presented to the by the Committee.
During the year under review, the Committee Committee in respect of a paper circulated prior to the meeting.
received a bi-annual report from the Group Director-Safety and He was able to give further details on the approach to the strategy Governance and the internal audit function on the compliance areas planning process and what the strategy output would look like, in that it monitored.
The report was tabled at the July and January terms of an integrated strategic business plan that would articulate meetings.
A typical report includes a summary of the scope and an the Groups vision and strategy, and tactical inputs.
The Group executive summary of the findings with an audit opinion.
The report Strategy Director reported on how the Group Risk Register would includes specific findings with agreed associated time-bound action be reviewed as part of the strategy planning process to ensure plans.
It was agreed at the January meeting that in future the it remained aligned to the Group strategy.
It was noted that a Committee would receive annual reports.
re-evaluation of the Groups risk appetite in the context of the new business plan would be considered at the Board strategy meeting Recent activity included consideration of improvements in action in November.
The approach was endorsed by the Committee.
tracking following firewall reviews and seeking clarification in respect of MOD policy in dealing with conflict of interest mitigations in the The Cyber Security deep dive was considered at the Committees process for bid submissions.
The Director of Capability and the Capability Programme Director had presented to the Committee in respect The Committee addresses any issues that would arise if QinetiQ were of a paper which had been circulated previously.
to fail to comply with the requirements of the generic compliance system.
No breaches were noted during the year.
76 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information c A review of the risk register in accordance with FRC The following actions were also agreed for the coming year: recommendations: To continue to focus on the big risk areas.
The review of the Risk Register is a standing item on the Committees To continue with the practice of having a more focused discussion agenda, with amendments being made to reflect changes in the on fewer items, aided by executive summaries.
Further details can be found in the To work closely with the Executive Committee and management Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 42 to 49 of the in respect of risk management activity.
Red risks are made the subject of a report to the To continue the practice of deep dives into subject risk areas Committee or become the subject of a deep dive review as part of the To review the Committees focus on Corporate Responsibility companys risk management processes.
in the light of best practice.
d Effectiveness review: As reported on page 61, the external effectiveness evaluation of the Board and its Committees had been deferred from 2015 owing to the change of Chief Executive Officer during the year.
An evaluation had been carried out instead by way of an externally provided online Report of the questionnaire tool.
SecurityCommittee The following areas had been noted for improvement from the 2015 Committee effectiveness review: improved clarity and brevity in reporting to allow the Committee to focus on key issues: increased liaison with the US business: and considering risk appetite in relation to risk areas, such as cyber risk.
All three items had been dealt with during the year under review.
The format and content of Committee papers have been adjusted, as noted on page 75: there has been regular contact with the US Proxy Board and US executive management, and an internal audit of key control processes undertaken by a US-based accountancy firm as noted on page 72 : and the approach to assessing risk appetite in respect Membership and attendance during the year of risk areas has been improved by way of the deep dive process.
The Security Committee is chaired by Admiral Sir James BurnellNugent and the other Committee members during the year were As detailed on page 61, the 2016 external review was carried out by Michael Harper, Ian Mason, David Mellors, Paul Murray, Susan Lintstock by way of an initial questionnaire supported by individual Searle and Steve Wadey from 27 April 2015. interviews.
The Risk & CSR Committee questionnaire covered the following areas: time management and composition, processes Main responsibilities and support, the work of the Committee and priorities for change.
The Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK nationals on the Board to consider matters of a UK national The outcome of the review was considered at the Committees May security dimension that have an impact on QinetiQs UK business.
meeting and was as follows: The Committees full terms of reference can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at www.
com The Risk & CSR Committee was rated highly and the continued about-us corporate-governance.
separation of financial and non-financial risk into the Audit Committee and Risk & CSR Committee respectively was considered to There was no requirement for the Committee to meet during be working well and created appropriate time to focus on key issues.
As noted on page 61, one of the Boards priorities for the coming Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent year is to review risk management and reporting processes, with Security Committee Chairman such review being led by the Chairs of the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Corporate governance statement continued Investor relations activity during the year under review E The company elected to continue to update the market six times a year, in conjunction with key financial announcements and financial period Relations with shareholders ends, due to the short order cycle in its Global Products division.
Telephone briefings for analysts and investors took place in conjunction The company attaches significant importance to maintaining an with these dates.
effective engagement with shareholders to ensure a mutual understanding of objectives and to deal with issues of concern.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director engaged Responsibility for communications with shareholders rests with the proactively with shareholders during the transition of the Chief Executive Directors, assisted by the Communications and Investor Executive Officer prior to Steve Wadeys appointment on 27 April 2015.
The Company Secretary oversees communications The Chairman also engaged with shareholders at their request with private individual shareholders.
An analysis of the shareholder register, by type of holder and by size Meetings with investors during the year were led by the Executive of holding, can be found on page 150.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director were available to attend meetings with individual investors on request.
Understanding the views of shareholders The Chairman proactively offers to attend meetings with key A new QinetiQ investor relations app was launched during the year shareholders, and their corporate governance teams, on a regular to make investor information available for mobile devices.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Nonexecutive Directors routinely attend key financial calendar events Other investor activity included: such as presentations of interim and preliminary results and make face-to-face presentations of full year and half-year results, in May themselves available to meet shareholders as required.
and November respectively, where the Chairman and Directors were available for discussions with investors: The Board as a whole is informed on a regular basis about the views of live and post-event webcasts of key presentations in respect key shareholders, including their concerns.
The Communications and of the full year and half-year results: Investor Relations Director provides regular updates to the Chairman investor road shows in May, June, November and December: and Non-executive Directors by way of face-to-face briefings, email visits, sales team briefings, group lunches, conference presentations updates and a section in the Executive Directors report which is and ad hoc meetings on request: and included in the Board papers as a standing item.
The following the Annual General Meeting held on 22 July 2015. information is included in these reports: Providing information to shareholders financial calendar and draft material: The company sets itself the target of providing information that share price performance: is timely, clear and concise.
a report from the companys brokers detailing activity on the shareholder register since the previous meeting: Key means of communication used by the company are: feedback from investor meetings, including key questions: with regard to sell-side analysts, their recommendations and the Annual Report, which sets out the business model and strategy, expectations: and corporate governance arrangements and financial results: peer group news.
announcements made via the companys website or a regulatory information service: responding to environment, social and governance questionnaires: results presentations and webcasts: and the companys website, www.
com, and an app for smart phones and tablets.
All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report, presentations to investors, Annual General Meeting documentation, key financial information, regulatory news, financial calendar, share and dividend data and other significant information about QinetiQ in the Investors section of the companys website, www.
The site also provides contact details for any investor-related queries, by telephone and by email.
78 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Annual General Meeting Communicating with shareholders The Annual General Meeting AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board of Directors and to ask questions.
The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Risk & CSR and Security Committees are available at that meeting to answer any questions on the work of the Committees.
All shareholders are 1 entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM.
To ensure that all Understanding shareholders, whether attending in person, by proxy, or unable to attend, shareholders views are able to vote in proportion to their shareholding, a poll is taken on all of the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes on  Meetings with key shareholders the resolutions are announced through a Regulatory Information Service  Proactive Investor Relations team and published on the companys website, www.
com, in the  Board briefings from IR Director Investors section, by the end of the next business day.
 Updates from brokers The 2015 AGM was held at Pennyhill Park Hotel, Bagshot, Surrey on 22 July 2015 and each member of the Board attended the meeting and was available to take questions.
The 2016 AGM is scheduled to be held at Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA, on 20 July 2016.
The company confirms that it will send the Notice of Meeting and relevant documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive 2 communications electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents in the Investors section of the Groups website.
Investor relations activity The company continues to look at ways of improving the quality of  Results presentations and webcasts its engagement with shareholders and to explore with investors any  Market updates and key additional practical means by which it can give effect to the financial announcements requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship Code  Briefings for analysts and investors for institutional investors, and of the Code.
 Annual General Meeting Details of the companys share capital, which are required to be disclosed in accordance with rule 7.2.
6 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, and the Directors powers in relation to issuing and buying back shares can be found on pages 96 and 98 in the Directors report section of this Annual Report.
Further information for shareholders can be found on pages 150 to 151 of this Annual Report.
3 Information for shareholders  Investor relations app  Annual report and accounts  Website at www.
com  Announcements via website or regulatory information service QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79
