Corporate governance CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION Ian Burke Chairman We aim for the highest standards in keeping with our Dear shareholder commitment to upholding the licensing objectives.
The We are reporting this year against the 2014 version of the audit committee continues to oversee improvements made UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and related to Ranks social responsibility and anti money laundering guidance.
During the year we were briefly in breach of Code controls following the agreement that Rank reached with the provision C. 3.1 audit committee to consist of at least three UK Gambling Commission last year.
The board also invited independent non-executive directors and Code provision members of the Responsible Gambling Strategy Board the D. 2.1 remuneration committee to consist of at least three RGSB to attend a discussion regarding social responsibility independent non-executive directors but Rank was in full and the current key areas of concern for the RGSB and the compliance with the Code before 1 December 2015 and industrys response to those concerns.
During the year we formed a board-level responsible gambling Appointment of non-executive directors committee chaired by Lord Kilmorey.
The committee has terms On 20 August 2015 we announced the appointment of of reference which include: Susan Hooper as a non-executive director with effect from 1September 2015.
Ms Hooper has extensive experience gained reviewing and making recommendations in relation to Ranks strategy and policy so far as gambling regulation and within large consumer-facing businesses combined with broad commercial non-executive experience which has further the prevention of gambling-related harm are concerned: and strengthened our board.
Ms Hooper serves on Ranks keeping under review the effectiveness of Ranks systems for remuneration and nominations committees.
identifying and interacting with customers who are at risk of becoming problem gamblers.
On 25 February 2016 Rank announced the appointment of Steven Esom to the board with effect from 1 March 2016.
As well as the board-level responsible gambling committee, a Mr Esom has held a number of senior and non-executive separate executive level compliance and responsible gambling positions within the food sector.
Mr Esom chairs Ranks committee chaired by our chief executive has been formed, a remuneration committee as well as serving on the boards summary of whose discussions is provided to the board at each audit and nominations committee.
Focus in 2015 16 As part of our commitment to acting responsibly, the During the year the board has held several discussions board has also kept under review our progress in relation about the culture within Rank which have culminated in the to our two-year health and safety modernisation plan and launch of new values STARS Service, Teamwork, Ambition, determined the Groups approach to, and policy regarding, Responsibility and Solutions which are being launched the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
We will be publishing the across Rank.
Responsibility is one of our five core values statutory statement required by this Act on our website and responsible gambling and anti money laundering before the end of the calendar year.
have been a continued focus this year.
com 51 Governance Corporate governance continued Diversity Corporate governance statement The board, supported by the nominations committee, Introduction continues to value diversity in its broadest sense when The principal governance rules applying to UK companies considering non-executive director appointments.
In addition listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK to considering gender and ethnicity, the board will look to Corporate Governance Code, revised by the Financial Reporting achieve the appropriate balance of skills, experience and Council in September 2014 the Code.
knowledge of the gambling industry as a whole.
Whilst we did not achieve the boards target of increasing the proportion of This corporate governance statement covers the following areas: women on the board to 25% by 30 June 2016, this continues structure and role of the board and its committees: to be our aspiration.
board effectiveness: Leadership and effectiveness Following the independent external review of the effectiveness audit committee: of the board we conducted last year, the focus for this year has nominations committee: been on evaluating and developing individual directors.
We finance committee: and have also been focusing on the boards engagement with responsible gambling committee.
strategy and the development of leadership.
The directors have assessed the prospects of the company over Relations with shareholders a three year period.
Further details of the viability assessment The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring are provided on page 33. that satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general The report of the remuneration committee is set out separately meeting which is taking place at 11am on Friday 14 October in the directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 79.
Compliance with the Code Conclusion Save in relation to Code provisions C. 3.1 audit committee I would like to take this opportunity to extend my gratitude to comprise at least three independent non-executive directors to all my board colleagues for their contributions this year.
We and D. 2.1 remuneration committee to comprise at least three have had some excellent debates conducted with openness and independent non-executive directors the board confirms that constructive challenge.
I would also like to thank in particular it has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the Tim Scoble who resigned during the year, for his contributions year ended 30 June 2016.
Please see page 54 for an explanation during the five and a half years he served on the board.
as to why the board was not in compliance with Code provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 for the entire year.
Ian Burke Chairman This corporate governance statement forms part of the 22 August 2016 directors report and accordingly is approved by the board and signed on its behalf by the company secretary.
Certain parts of this corporate governance statement have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, for compliance with the Code, to the extent required.
In this corporate governance statement the following abbreviations are used: FCA Financial Conduct Authority Guoco Guoco Group Limited Hong Leong Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad Structure and role of the board and its committees The board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The boards main responsibilities and the key actions carried out during the year are set out on page 53.
The board delegates certain matters to committees and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the executive directors.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 52 Specific responsibilities are delegated to our five board Code main principles committees audit, remuneration, nominations, finance and Leadership responsible gambling.
They report to the board and operate The role of the board within defined terms of reference, which can be obtained Board composition from our website at www.
com en investors corporateAs at the date of this report, the board consists of: governance our-committees.
html or by writing to the company secretary.
a non-executive chairman: five independent non-executive directors: and The executive directors conduct the Companys business within clearly defined limits delegated by the board and subject to two executive directors the chief executive and the those matters reserved to the board.
Board meetings The names and biographies of all directors are published Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion of on pages 48 to 49. strategy, trading, financial performance, regulatory affairs, Key board responsibilities responsible gambling and risk management.
The board is responsible for: There were ten scheduled meetings during the year.
Group strategy, objectives and policies: During the period under review, the boards committees internal controls and risk management: also met regularly to discharge their duties.
In exceptional general and long-term progress of the Group within the circumstances when a director is unable to attend a meeting, political, economic, environmental and social setting of their comments on briefing papers are given in advance to the day: the relevant chairman.
sound governance, health and safety, and The directors attendance at board meetings during the year environmental policies: is recorded in the table below.
It shows the number of board financial performance, annual budgets and business plans: meetings attended by each director compared with the number of board meetings that director was eligible to attend.
board and company secretary appointments: major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: senior management structure, remuneration and succession: annual and half-year financial results and interim management statements: responsible gambling and ethical behaviour: board committees and their terms of reference: and investor relations.
Board meeting attendance Board Attendance Name member since Eligibility to attend Notes Chris Bell June 2015 10 10 Henry Birch May 2014 10 10 Ian Burke March 2006 10 10 Steven Esom March 2016 3 3 Mr Esom joined the board on 1 March 2016.
Susan Hooper September 2015 8 8 Ms Hooper joined the board on 1 September 2015.
Clive Jennings July 2011 10 10 Lord Kilmorey May 2012 10 10 Owen ODonnell September 2008 10 10 Tim Scoble April 2010 5 5 Mr Scoble resigned from the board on 30 November 2015.
Shaa Wasmund November 2012 2 4 Ms Wasmund was unable to attend two meetings due to unavoidable unforeseen circumstances.
Ms Wasmund resigned from the board on 15October 2015. www.
com 53 Governance Corporate governance continued Insurance and indemnity Non-executive directors The Company has arranged insurance cover and indemnifies The directors are satisfied that there are proper procedures in directors in respect of legal action against them to the extent place to ensure that: permitted by law.
Neither applies in situations where a director they are receiving accurate and clear information for the has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
proper execution of their duties: Conflicts of interest the Groups objectives, policies and strategies are consistent The directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
with enhancing shareholder value: In accordance with our articles of association, we have adopted they are able to keep the Groups progress and development a policy and procedure for managing and, if appropriate, under review: authorising actual or potential conflicts of interest.
they have an opportunity to challenge constructively, and help Directors are required to disclose any other new appointments develop, proposals on strategy: before agreeing to take them on, so that any conflicts of interest there are effective communications with all shareholders: and can be identified and addressed.
the Groups governance is effective.
The board also assesses conflicts of interest before making any new appointments.
Senior independent director As senior independent director since 1 June 2015, Chris Bell Division of responsibilities is available to talk with shareholders who have questions There is a clear division of responsibilities for the chairman and or concerns.
Led by the senior independent director, the chief executive.
non-executive directors met and reviewed the chairmans performance without him being present.
Chairman The chairman is charged to: The audit committee was without three independent non-executive directors from the resignation of Tim Scoble manage the business of the board, preside over meetings and on 30November 2015 to the appointment of Steven Esom seek prompt and appropriate decisions: effective from 1March 2016.
The Company was therefore work with the company secretary to ensure directors receive not in compliance with Code provision C. 3.1 for three out accurate and clear information for the proper execution of of the 12months of the year under review.
their duties: The remuneration committee was without three independent oversee effective communication with shareholders: non-executive directors from the resignation of Shaa Wasmund keep the Groups progress and development under review: with effect from 15 October 2015 to the appointment of Steven ensure the chief executives Group objectives, policies and Esom effective from 1 March 2016.
The Company was therefore strategies are consistent with lasting shareholder value: not in compliance with Code provision D. 2.1 for four months evaluate the board and its committees: and 17days out of the 12 months of the year under review.
ensure the Groups governance is effective and in line with Effectiveness best practice.
The composition of the board Size and structure Chief executive The nominations committee keeps the boards size and The chief executives role is to: structure under review.
The nominations committee is of the view that the board is well balanced, providing a collective manage and promote the Groups long-term profitable development: competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an appropriate blend of executive and non-executive skill.
exercise stewardship of intellectual property, human and We believe that all our directors are suitably qualified to financial resources and ensure that the relevant policies help steer and challenge Group strategy.
are implemented: plan strategy and prepare objectives and policies for More than half of our board, excluding the chairman, is independent: board approval: Name Independent Appointed ensure action is taken to achieve strategies, objectives and policies, as approved by the board: Chairman 1 Ian Burke n a March 2006 ensure objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for each Executive Group business, that appropriate budgets are set for them Henry Birch no May 2014 individually, that their performance is monitored, and that Clive Jennings no July 2011 guidance is given when needed: Non-executive take responsibility for Group health and safety policies: Chris Bell yes June 2015 make sure the Group complies with all relevant legislation: and Steven Esom yes March 2016 lead ongoing communication with employees.
Susan Hooper yes September 2015 Lord Kilmorey yes May 2012 Owen ODonnell yes September 2008 1 Ian Burke was originally appointed to the board on 6 March 2006.
He resigned from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3 July 2011.
On 15 July 2011 he became executive chairman.
On 6 May 2014 he resigned his role as chief executive and became non-executive chairman with effect from that date.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 54 The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each Information and support director are set out on pages 71 to 72 and their interests Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman is responsible in Rank shares are detailed on page 77. for ensuring that directors receive accurate and timely information on all relevant matters.
Committees The composition and chairmanship of our board committees The directors receive a monthly report of current and forecast are considered annually and have been considered during the trading results and treasury positions, as well as updates on period under review.
Commitment A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover outlined on page 72 of the directors remuneration report.
All non-executive directors are required to disclose their other Comprehensive briefing papers on substantive agenda items significant commitments both before appointment and are circulated at least five working days before meetings where following subsequent changes so that the board can satisfy possible.
These contain detailed background information, thus itself that each of the directors has sufficient time to allocate freeing time for informed debate.
to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
We operate an open-door policy between the board and Neither Henry Birch nor Clive Jennings currently holds any the management team.
Members of the management team directorships outside the Rank Group.
Executive directors are also make regular board presentations to ensure a flow of not permitted to take up non-executive directorships outside operational information reaches the directors in a timely way.
All directors have access to the advice and services Development of the company secretary and, if required, may take Induction independent advice and or professional development During the period under review, two new non-executive at the Companys expense.
directors were appointed to the board.
The non-executive directors were given a comprehensive induction programme, Evaluation which included meetings with senior management and site An independent external review of the effectiveness of the visits accompanied by the finance directors of the casino and board was conducted last year.
The review highlighted some bingo businesses.
areas which the board agreed would be the subject of focus and which the board did address during the year.
The non-executive Skills and knowledge directors met privately to discuss the effectiveness of the board All directors are given regular written briefings with regard to and its committees during the year and agreed that, overall, the matters affecting the Groups businesses, such as the political board had functioned effectively during the period under and regulatory environment.
Additionally, at the boards review and that its committees continued to discharge their request, the Groups auditor keeps the board abreast of key duties in line with their respective terms of reference.
impact items such as political and regulatory initiatives with regard to narrative reporting, executive remuneration, going concern and the role of the audit committee.
Directors are invited to identify to the company secretary or human resources director any desired skills and knowledge enhancements that they require so that appropriate training can be arranged.
Additionally, once a year, the directors have an opportunity to review and agree their respective training and development needs during their one-on-one meetings with the chairman.
com 55 Governance Corporate governance continued The chairman, together with two non-executive directors, All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with evaluated the performance of the chief executive by means shareholder opinion.
During the period under review, a total of of a questionnaire and meeting.
The outcome was discussed 58 meetings with 46 shareholders were attended by one or more and then fed back to the other non-executive directors.
of the chief executive and finance director.
The non-executive directors also met privately without the Formal briefings on shareholder opinion are circulated to chairman present to review the performance of the chairman.
the board after presentation of the Companys interim and Re-election annual results.
All new directors must stand for election at the first annual The principal method of communicating with all our general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at shareholders is via our corporate website, www.
intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors Information can be provided in paper format but only are engaged for an initial period of three years and must stand when shareholders specifically request this.
for election and re-appointment in the same way.
Ranks articles of association require one third of serving directors Constructive use of the annual general meeting to retire annually.
All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general meeting AGM.
Private investors are encouraged to ask Steven Esom was appointed to the board since the last annual questions.
The chairman and chairmen of the audit and general meeting and is therefore required to submit himself remuneration committees are all present.
for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting on 14October 2016.
Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at least The Company complies with the Codes requirement for annual 20 working days beforehand.
The business presentation, voting re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
Therefore all results and a summary of the questions and answers are made other directors will submit themselves for re-election at the available at www.
com, or in printed format on request.
Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or appoint Relations with shareholders a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual and other Dialogue with shareholders general meetings of the Company.
The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
As at Next AGM 30June 2016, 56.16% of our shares were held by our majority The 2016 AGM will be held on 14 October 2016 and the full shareholder, Guoco, and a further 33.75% were held by text of the notice of meeting, together with explanatory notes, 20institutional shareholders.
is set out in a separate document at: www.
Given that Rank is a 56.16% subsidiary of Guoco, the chief executive and other members of Ranks executive management If you have elected for paper information, this will be enclosed team meet with representatives of Guoco four times a year to with your hard copy of this annual report.
Shareholders wishing discuss business performance and other issues that could to change that election may do so at any time by contacting impact its financial statements.
the Companys registrar contact details are on page 138 and on our website at www.
com en investors shareholderWe speak with our institutional shareholders and city analysts centre.
through a programme of investor relations and regular meetings with principal shareholders conducted by our chief executive, finance director and director of investor relations.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 56 AUDIT COMMITTEE Owen ODonnell Chairman Other committee members Audit committee membership and meetings Chris Bell, Steven Esom The audit committee was without three independent non-executive directors from the resignation of Tim Scoble Role of the audit committee on 30November 2015 to the appointment of Steven Esom The audit committee assists the board in reviewing and with effect from 1March 2016.
During that time, Ian Burke maintaining internal controls, the management of risk served on the committee.
The Company was therefore not and our compliance with the law and regulation.
in compliance with Code provision C. 3.1 for three out of It has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the the 12 months of the year under review since Mr Burke is Groups internal audit function.
It also assesses the integrity of all public financial statements The board is satisfied that the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
before their submission to the board, ensuring that a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups A rolling agenda and topical items determine the committees ongoing position and prospects is presented.
The committee met formally four times in the period under review.
Any changes in accounting policies are authorised by the committee, which also reviews the objectivity and effectiveness At the invitation of the audit committee chairman, the chief of our external auditor every year.
executive, finance director and company secretary normally The committee oversees the Companys internal code of attend committee meetings, as does the external auditor.
conduct and monitors our whistleblowing procedures through Other directors are encouraged to attend at least one which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about any committee meeting a year at which the auditor is present.
possible improprieties in areas of financial reporting, financial The internal and external auditors also meet the committee control and other ethical matters.
without executive directors and other employees being present.
The committee is regularly updated on accounting and legislative changes through briefing papers from the auditor, finance director and others.
The committees terms of reference are available from the Companys website at www.
com en investors corporategovernance terms-of-reference.
html, or by writing to the company secretary.
com 57 Governance Corporate governance continued Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since Eligibility to attend Notes Current committee members Chris Bell June 2015 4 4 Steven Esom March 2016 1 1 Mr Esom joined the board and the audit committee on 1 March 2016.
Owen ODonnell September 2008 4 4 Mr ODonnell has been committee chairman since 22 April 2014.
Former committee members Tim Scoble October 2013 2 2 Risk management The audit committee has also regularly assessed the progress Successful execution of the Groups strategy requires a thorough achieved against managements information security and critical approach to identifying, accepting and mitigating improvement plan.
existing and emergent risk, and to that end both the board Internal control framework and the audit committee take an active role in ensuring that Our system of internal control is designed to manage rather a culture of risk-awareness and risk-adjusted decision making than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, are embedded throughout the Group.
and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It controls, rather than The audit committee and the board monitor the effectiveness of eliminates, any human error, deliberate misconduct the risk management process and regularly review the principal or uncertain events.
risks and the controls and risk-mitigation actions put in place to manage them.
To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, the board has put in place Whilst responsibility remains with the board, a key part of oversight of the risk management process is executed formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Established procedures are geared to identifying, through the Groups risk committee which comprises the chief executive, finance director, company secretary, chief evaluating and managing significant risks and to monitoring the Groups businesses and performance.
information officer and director of internal audit.
This committee meets a minimum of eight times per year and will This framework is reviewed annually and is designed to also include, by invitation, specialist employees from various safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, departments and functions of the Group to support detailed while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
discussions of specific operational risks.
The primary roles of Senior management is responsible for making sure that controls the risk committee are to: and procedures are enforced and that the board is informed of any risks and control issues that arise.
review the corporate risk register: carry out deep-dive reviews into specific departments and Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for functions risk registers: and reporting financial results to the board, a budgeting process incorporating an approved budget and bi-annual re-forecasts.
provide a forum to ensure the adequate and timely progress The chief executive and finance director hold monthly review of agreed risk-mitigation actions.
meetings with brand managing directors and their respective The Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 34 directors of finance.
of the strategic report details the key areas which the risk Financial reporting control: detailed policies and procedures committee focused on in its reviews during the year.
are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of Compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 and HM Treasury financial reporting.
Financial Sanctions forms part of the general risks and internal Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic plans controls reported to the board.
Our audit committee also annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
reviews managements bi-annual reports on anti money laundering, internal and external fraud, whistleblowing, Operational control: our procedures are laid down in detailed code of conduct and inadvertent breaches of legislation.
manuals and reinforced by employee training.
Each business unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and In accordance with the provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate report weaknesses to operational management.
Governance Code, revised by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code, a period of three years has Compliance control: across the Group we have teams been adopted for assessing viability for the period under review.
whose responsibility it is to ensure day-to-day adherence to The board agreed the proposed processes to support the viability all legislation to which our operations are subject, including statement and has delegated to the committee responsibility gambling, anti money laundering and health and safety.
Senior executives and the internal audit team are responsible for monitoring overall compliance.
They report to the audit During the year the committee reviewed assurance reports committee and the board.
In light of the findings in the relating to compliance with anti money laundering AML, application of the Groups policies and procedures relating to counter terrorist financing CTF and proceeds of crime anti money laundering and responsible gambling that were PoC policies and procedures from the managing brought to our attention by the UK Gambling Commission directors of Grosvenor and Mecca.
during the previous year, the board commissioned an The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 58 externally led review of our anti money laundering and had three closed sessions with the director of internal audit responsible gambling controls and a number of compliance without executive management being present.
controls have been subject to further enhancement and Code of conduct improvement to take account of the recommendations Rank has an employee code of conduct that sets out our values made by the review.
and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
Adherence to the code is important.
It upholds our reputation and The executive directors and senior management meet regularly with representatives from the businesses to address financial, relationships, inside and outside the Company.
human resource, risk management and other control issues.
The audit committee is responsible for monitoring management reports on employee conduct, including At its meetings in the year to 30 June 2016, the audit committee our whistleblowing procedures.
examined the effectiveness of the Groups approach to internal control by reviewing changes to controls made during the year Whistleblowing and reviewing the adequacy and progress of action plans to Rank considers it important to maintain a culture of openness, address failings or weaknesses identified in the Groups honesty and opposition to fraud, corruption and unethical system of internal control.
It is Ranks policy to implement and maintain procedures that promote ethical business conduct and reduce This process has been in place during the period and up to the the risk of fraud and other irregularities, enabling early date of approval of this annual report and financial statements.
To support this, Rank It has been reviewed by the board and meets the Financial has a fraud and unethical business conduct whistleblowing Reporting Councils internal control guidance to directors.
policy which sets out the ways in which employees can voice Internal audit their concerns about suspected fraud, corruption or unethical The audit committee has responsibility for the internal audit business conduct.
function and the director of internal audit reports directly to the chairman of the audit committee.
Our internal audit During the latter half of the year, the whistleblowing policy was re-communicated to all employees with new display materials team provides an objective and regular stream of analysis and opinion on risk management and control.
To avoid bias, and additional clarifications about the matters for which it should be used.
it is entirely independent of the business operations under audit and maintains strict management of any conflicts Financial reporting and significant financial issues of interest arising.
The audit committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has The scope of the audit coverage is approved by the audit made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The committee committee and covers all systems, procedures and activities of reviews accounting papers prepared by management which all operations, departments and functions within the Group, provide details of the main financial reporting judgements.
including projects, policy developments, financial and The committee also reviews reports by the external auditor non-financial processes.
on the full year and half year results which highlight any The audit committee also agrees the annual audit plan which issues with respect to the work undertaken on the full year covers operational, corporate and IT audits, reviews the level audit and the half year review.
and nature of internal audit resource and reviews the audit Significant accounting issues considered by the committee reports produced by the internal audit team.
during the year included: The internal audit team seeks to determine whether the system of risk management, control and governance processes, as EBITDA multiples and discount rates applied for impairments: designed and operated by management, is adequate and impairment review of intangible assets and property, plant functioning in such a manner as to ensure that: and equipment: review of provisions, including those in relation to property risks are appropriately identified and managed in line with the leases and indirect tax: Companys risk appetite: review of ongoing direct tax issues: operations are run with sufficient and adequate controls and in an efficient and effective manner: treatment of exceptional items: and significant financial, managerial and operating information is contingent assets and liabilities.
accurate, reliable and timely: Audit committee activity in 2015 16 employee actions are in compliance with policies, standards, In addition to those items detailed under internal control, risk procedures, and applicable laws and regulations: and management and financial reporting and significant financial relevant laws, rules and regulations are complied with in the issues, during the year under review the committees business operation of the business.
has included the following: To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit to full and half-year results: monitor each business units controls performance also affect principal judgemental accounting matters affecting the Group: operational management bonuses.
the assurance process to allow the board to make a The director of internal audit makes regular presentations to the viabilitystatement: audit committee and reporting includes comparative and trend finance systems strategy: analysis.
During the period under review the audit committee www.
com 59 Governance Corporate governance continued external audit plans and reports including auditor observations The committee noted that the Group has a number of property and recommendations made as a result of controls testing leasehold contracts and was of the view that appropriate completed in prior year audits: provision had been made against those property leases where the unavoidable costs exceed the expected economic benefit recoverability of a convertible loan made to Ranks digital expected to be derived from the property.
Further details of the platform provider: property lease provision held are disclosed in note 21 and the the migration of Bede Gaming was considered: exceptional adjustments made in the current year are disclosed internal audit plans and key reports: in note 4. information security and cyber risk as part of the information In addition, the committee was also updated in respect of security improvement programme: certain property leasehold contracts where the rights and external and internal theft and fraud: obligations but not the legal titles have been transferred to third parties such that the Group remains potentially liable anti money laundering and prevention of crime: in the event of default by the third party.
Should default litigation: and occur then the Group would normally have recourse to one whistleblowing and code of conduct reports.
These leasehold contracts include nine remaining property leases, with lease durations of between Significant financial judgements five months and 97 years and a current annual obligation Before recommending the half-year and full-year financial net of sub-let income of approximately 0.8m, that were statements to the board for approval, the committee reviewed transferred concurrent to the 211m sale and leaseback in 2006. the following key accounting issues that rely on significant The committee noted the risk associated with the transfer of financial judgements.
such property leasehold contracts but that the Group has not Exceptional items the committee reviewed the accounting to date been notified of any default, or intention to default, treatment of exceptional items and are in agreement that the in respect of the transferred leases.
Further details of this items listed in note 4 are exceptional in size or nature and contingent liability are disclosed in note 31. therefore it is appropriate to disclose these separately.
Indirect tax provisions the committee receives and Impairments for goodwill and indefinite life assets considers an update paper covering the Groups indirect not subject to amortisation, the Group performs an annual tax issues, including the Groups various VAT claims, at both impairment review.
In addition, the Group also reviews assets the half and the full year.
The committee noted Julys adverse that are subject to amortisation or depreciation for events decision of the Supreme Court in favour of HMRC regarding or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying claims for overpaid VAT on certain types of amusement amount of an asset or cash-generating unit may not be machines between 2002 and 2005 but that a full provision recoverable.
If a definite life asset has been previously impaired has been made for amounts not yet repaid.
the Group considers whether there has been a change in The committee was of the view that managements best circumstance or event that may indicate the impairment estimate of the liability for the issues that remained outstanding is no longer required.
The Group considers each venue to was appropriate.
Details of the indirect tax liability recognised be a cash-generating unit and therefore the review covers are disclosed in note 21. in excess of 150 individual cash-generating units.
Direct tax the committee receives and considers an update The committee reviewed managements impairment review paper covering the Groups ongoing direct tax issues at both process including, where applicable, the potential indicators the half and full year.
These issues cover both discontinued of impairment and or reversal, cash flow projections, sensitivity operations with historic tax audits and continuing operations of assumptions and discount rates used to derive a value in use.
where tax returns submitted have been, or are likely to be, This included consideration of the impairment charge of 0.9m challenged by the relevant tax authority.
The committee noted in Stockton Grosvenor and the reversal arising in Enracha of the successful receipt of 4.4m of overpaid Canadian tax and 1.4m where performance at the club in Sabadell has seen a that this was appropriately disclosed as a contingent asset in the sustained performance recovery following the closure of prior year accounts.
The committee also noted that the Group a competitor.
made an appropriate payment of 21.4m in respect of an The committee was of the view that the net impairment reversal ongoing tax issue which was provided for in the prior period.
Further details of the The committee was of the view that managements best impairment charges and reversals are disclosed in note 4. estimate of the liability for the remaining issues was The committee also considered the impairment review appropriate.
See note 17 for details of the direct tax undertaken in relation to the investment in subsidiary liability recognised.
undertakings held by the Company, including the Contingent assets and liabilities the Group, as noted in appropriateness of the key inputs into the valuation model.
the areas of significant judgement above, has had to consider The committee was of the view that the impairment charge the accounting treatment of a number of potential assets and of 5.1m was appropriate.
This requires management to apply judgement in Property lease provisions at both the half and the full year, assessing the probability of occurrence or non-occurrence of the committee considered the Groups approach to property one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the lease provisions, the discount rates applied and managements control of the Company.
recommendations, in order to satisfy itself how management came to its best estimate of property lease obligations.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 60 The audit committee receives tri-annual updates from external audit partner following completion of the 31 December management, incorporating legal advice as appropriate, on 2015 interim review.
The committee will continue to give the accounting treatment for potential assets and liabilities in consideration to the timing of the next formal tender in relation to disclosure or recognition.
The committee is of the light of the then prevailing regulatory requirements.
The the view that management has appropriately treated such committee does not anticipate that a tender will be undertaken items in the financial statements.
Details of the contingent during the 2016 17 financial year.
There are no contractual assets and liabilities disclosed are included in notes 30 obligations that restrict the choice of external auditors.
Auditor Principal risks and uncertainties Having reviewed its performance throughout the period, our Details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, and conclusion that Ernst & Young LLPs effectiveness is satisfactory the controls in place to mitigate them, can be found on pages enables us to recommend its reappointment for 2016 17.
34 to 36 of the strategic report.
Additionally, details of the The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, is willing to continue in office financial risks that the Group faces can be found in note and a resolution that they be re-appointed at a remuneration 19to the financial statements.
to be agreed by the audit committee will be proposed at the Committee evaluation forthcoming annual general meeting.
The committees performance during the period under review Relations with external auditor was assessed via confidential questionnaires with committee Our auditor is employed to express an opinion on the financial members and other individuals who support its work.
It reviews the systems of internal financial control results were then reviewed by the committee chairman and and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent discussed with the board.
The board agreed that the committee necessary to express its opinion.
It discusses with management the reporting of operational Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process results and the financial position of the Group, and presents Agreement on how best to assess the effectiveness of the findings to the audit committee.
external audit process was discussed between the audit committee chairman, the finance director and the company Information secretary and a proposal agreed.
That proposal was put to the The directors in office at the date of this report are not aware other audit committee members for agreement.
Part of the of any relevant information that has not been made available effectiveness of the external audit process was assessed by the to the auditor and each director has taken steps to be aware use of a questionnaire which posed questions in relation to of all such information and to ensure it is available to the different aspects of the external audit process.
employed by Rank most actively involved with the day-to-day Non-audit work aspects of the audit provided responses to certain questions The audit committee oversees the nature and amount of asked of them.
The views of Rank employees involved with the any non-audit work undertaken by the auditor to ensure they audit were considered, discussed and summarised and provided remain independent.
Consequently, the committee is required to audit committee members for discussion amongst themselves.
to approve in advance all non-audit services above 25,000.
In addition to a private meeting between the audit committee When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to chair and the external audit partner, the committee met with non-audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite competitive the auditor following each audit committee meeting in a closed tenders where appropriate.
It is also the Groups policy to session without executive directors to assess the objectivity balance the need to maintain audit independence with the and accuracy of financial reporting and to hear any other desirability of taking advice from the leading firm in the area observations that the auditor had to make.
of advice being sought and the desirability of being efficient.
During the year, the Audit Quality Review Team of the Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP throughout Financial Reporting Council the FRC reviewed Ernst & the period under review can be found in note 3.
Young LLPs audit of the Groups financial statements in respect Rank has used the services of other accounting firms for of the year ended 30 June 2015.
The FRC has given us a copy of non-audit work during the period under review.
its confidential report which has been reviewed and discussed by the committee and separately with the external auditor, and Rank is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the the committee is satisfied that the matters raised do not give audit partner and the audit engagement team have not been it concerns over the quality, objectivity or independence of compromised by the fees paid for the non-audit work the audit and have been appropriately addressed by Ernst & undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP.
Young LLP in this years audit.
Assurance Audit tendering The internal audit function and the external auditor presented The committee has noted the requirements regarding their findings to the committee in November 2015 and in audit tender and rotation of the audit engagement partner.
We confirm that action plans to remedy The Companys external audit was most recently tendered identified weaknesses in internal control have been in place during 2009, resulting in a change of external auditors and the throughout the period.
appointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the Companys annual Ernst & Young LLPs audit report is published on page 86. general meeting on 22 April 2010.
com 61 Governance Corporate governance continued NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Ian Burke Chairman Other committee members During the year under review the committee met formally on Chris Bell, Henry Birch, Steven Esom, Susan Hooper, three occasions.
Lord Kilmorey, Owen ODonnell The main issues which the committee discussed during the year Appointments to the board under review were: The nominations committee is comprised of the chairman, all the search for two independent non-executive directors: independent non-executive directors and the chief executive.
The formal terms of reference of the nominations committee succession planning: are available on our website at www.
com en investors chairmanship and membership of board committees: corporate-governance terms-of-reference.
html, or by written board composition: and request to the company secretary.
The nominations committee is responsible for identifying relevant talent and nominating all board appointments with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the board, includinggender.
Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since Eligibility to attend Notes Current committee members Chris Bell July 2015 3 3 Mr Bell joined the committee on 1 July 2015.
Henry Birch July 2014 2 3 Mr Birch was unable to attend one meeting due to unavoidable unforeseen circumstances.
Ian Burke June 2014 3 3 Mr Burke has been committee chairman since 25 June 2014.
Steven Esom March 2016 1 1 Mr Esom joined the committee on 1 March 2016.
Susan Hooper September 2015 2 2 Ms Hooper joined the committee on 1 September 2015.
Lord Kilmorey February 2014 2 3 Lord Kilmorey was unable to attend one meeting due to unavoidable unforeseen circumstances.
Owen ODonnell February 2014 3 3 Former committee members Tim Scoble September 2011 2 2 Shaa Wasmund February 2014 0 2 Ms Wasmund was unable to attend two meetings due to unavoidable unforeseen circumstances.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 62 Board and committee composition Appointment of non-executive directors The nominations committee keeps the boards size and Susan Hooper was appointed to the board with effect from structure under review.
The nominations committee is of the 1September 2015 and Steven Esom with effect from 1 March view that the board is well balanced, providing a collective 2016: both Ms Hooper and Mr Esom were appointed to the competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an board following a search process led by the chairman which appropriate blend of executive and non-executive skill.
was undertaken using an external search agency, Zygos LLP.
We believe that all our directors are suitably qualified to All board members were invited to meet both Ms Hooper and help steer and challenge Group strategy.
Following meetings of the nominations committee Ms Hooper and Mr Esom were recommended to the board for During the period under review, Mr Bell, Mr Esom and appointment.
At its meetings convened on 19 August 2015 and Ms Hooper were appointed to the committee: Mr Scoble 1 September 2015 the board unanimously resolved to appoint and Ms Wasmund left the committee following their Ms Hooper and Mr Esom respectively to the board.
Both Ms respective resignations from the board.
The composition and Hooper and Mr Esom were appointed for an initial term of chairmanship of our board committees are considered annually three years subject to election at the annual general meeting and have been considered once during the period under review.
following their appointment and thereafter subject to re-election at subsequent annual general meetings.
Board diversity During the period under review, the nominations committee Re-appointment of a non-executive director has continued to consider the issue of diversity including The nominations committee considered the re-appointment gender diversity in the context of the board and is mindful of Lord Kilmorey as a director.
By the time of this years annual of the benefits that diversity brings to the board.
general meeting in October 2016, Lord Kilmorey will have served as an independent director for almost four and a half The boards diversity policy is to recruit the best candidate years.
Lord Kilmoreys diverse experience in commerce and having regard to the skills and experience required, but with industry, and in Government, are attributes which are of a mind to diversity, including gender diversity.
The directors significant benefit to the Rank board and therefore, on the have confirmed that they continue to aspire to achieving recommendation of the nominations committee, the board 25% female representation on Ranks board.
re-appointed Lord Kilmorey until the conclusion of the Details of the gender breakdown of directors, senior Companys 2017 annual general meeting subject to re-election management and the Group as a whole can be found on at the Companys 2016 annual general meeting.
page 39 of the strategic report.
com 63 Governance Corporate governance continued RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING COMMITTEE Lord Kilmorey Chairman Other committee members The formal terms of reference of the committee are available Chris Bell, Henry Birch, Ian Burke on our website at www.
html, or by written request The responsible gambling committee was established during to the company secretary.
the second half of the year in order to assist in the formulation of, and keep under review, the Groups responsible gambling The committee has met once formally during the period under strategy.
The specific duties assigned to the committee are: review at which it discussed a number of matters, including the National Responsible Gambling Strategy for 2016 17 to To review and make recommendations in relation to Ranks 2018 19, which it was wholly supportive of.
strategy and policy so far as gambling regulation and the In June 2016 the committee members and other members prevention of gambling-related harm are concerned: of the board met with members of the Responsible Gambling To review the results of gambling-related research projects Strategy Board the RGSB in order to hear first hand the undertaken by Rank or by third parties at the request of principal concerns of the RGSB.
This meeting provided Rank or utilising Ranks data: valuable insights and will assist the committee in formulating To keep under review Ranks policies and systems designed a Group responsible gambling strategy for recommendation to protect children and other vulnerable persons from being to the board during the course of the coming year.
harmed or exploited by gambling: To keep under review the effectiveness of Ranks systems for identifying and interacting with customers who are at risk of becoming problem gamblers: To review and make recommendations in relation to the resources available within, and to, Rank to ensure that vulnerable or potentially vulnerable persons are identified, monitored and, where appropriate, promptly denied access to Ranks facilities for gambling: To review and approve substantive changes to Ranks responsible gambling manuals in all the jurisdictions and channels in which it operates: and To review the content of Ranks Annual Assurance Statement AAS to the UK Gambling Commission, prior to its submission to the Rank board for approval.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 64 FINANCE COMMITTEE Ian Burke Chairman Other committee members Committee meeting attendance Henry Birch, Clive Jennings Committee Attendance Name member since Eligibility to attend Notes The board has established a finance committee which is Current committee comprised of the chairman, chief executive and finance members director: following Mr Scobles resignation in November 2015, Henry Birch May 2014 11 11 there is currently not a non-executive director serving on the Ian Burke March 2006 11 11 Mr Burke has committee.
The committee is authorised to approve capital been committee expenditure and make financing decisions for the Group chairman since up to authorised limits.
On behalf of the board, the finance 15 July 2011. committees role includes setting, monitoring and reporting on: Clive Jennings July 2011 11 11 Former committee operating plans: members monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial Tim Scoble September 4 4 Mr Scoble performance against budget: and 2011 resigned as a director on 30 year-end forecasts.
The committee met on 11 occasions during the year and the issues it discussed included insurance cover and uninsured risks, estate management issues and commercial agreements within its delegated authority.
