Group risk committee report as required to present and advise on reports commissioned.
In addition, I regularly meet with the chief risk officer and her risk team in a combination of formal and informal sessions and with senior management across all divisions of the group to discuss the business environment and to gather their views of emerging risks.
Role and responsibilities of the committee These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, which are available on the company website.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
The key activities of the committee are to: review reports from the investment management performance monitoring team review reports from the risk team on risk appetite issues including any early warning signals and advise Group risk committee chairmans the board accordingly annual statement review reports from the head of compliance The economic challenges and heavy regulatory agenda coupled review reports from the head of anti-money laundering with firm-specific risks have kept the group risk committee occupied throughout 2016.
Significant enhancements to our risk discuss any loss events and near misses, the lessons learned management and risk appetite frameworks have been made and management action taken throughout the year and we are satisfied that we have the skills discuss external risk-related events and talent across the group to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
discuss significant issues raised at the banking, conduct risk and risk management committee meetings As in previous years, the committee apportions its time between the planned periodic review of key risks and the close scrutiny of review and approve changes to the top 10 risk list and the topical business risks as they develop.
This approach allows us to watch list of emerging risks ensure that emerging risks can be identified and debated and that review end-to-end process risk assessments undertaken and managements plans for risk mitigation are well understood and any resulting internal control enhancements appropriately resourced.
During the year, the committee saw further improvement in the quality of the management advise the board on the risk aspects of proposed major information that it receives.
strategic change review prior to board approval key regulatory submissions Committee members including the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Our current members are the independent non-executive Process ICAAP document directors: myself as chairman, James Dean, Sarah Gentleman review prior to board approval the annual ISAE3402 report and David Harrel.
We met on four occasions in 2016 2015: four.
on the investment management operations and custody Details of attendance by members are set out on page 55. control systems.
In addition to the members of the committee, standing invitations are extended to the chairman, the executive directors, the chief risk officer and the head of internal audit.
All attend committee meetings as a matter of course and inform the committees discussions.
Other executives, risk team members and external advisers are invited to attend the committee from time-to-time 80 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 80 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Governance Actions in 2016 Looking ahead to 2017 Further enhancements were made to the groups risk We are committed to the continuing development of our management framework in 2016, including the continued approach to risk management across the lines of defence.
evolution of the three lines of defence model to ensure that it In the first line, we expect to see delivery of a number of projects remains aligned to industry and regulatory standards, particularly currently in flight that should strengthen further the sustainability as Rathbones became subject to the Senior Managers and of good client outcomes.
We have recently agreed additional Certification Regime.
Emerging risk assessment has been an resources, which will be used to strengthen the second line teams increasing focus of the risk management team and a standing in anticipation of the likely demands arising from the current agenda item for the committees discussion.
A number of areas of operational risk were stressed as part of We also see further convergence between culture, risk and the annual ICAAP process.
Following robust debate and challenge, compensation as the risk culture approach in the firm is the committee and board were satisfied that the groups business developed and revised compensation schemes are implemented.
model and allocated risk appetite remained appropriate.
This is an The group risk committee and remuneration committee will important outcome given the number of change management continue to work in cooperation to ensure that risk behaviours programmes underway across the group and in our regular and the management of risk issues over the course of the financial meetings there is specific focus on the progress of key projects year are appropriately reflected in decisions taken about and initiatives.
Ensuring that we remain fully compliant with the numerous Full details of our risk management framework are included in the new banking rules is increasingly challenging and we continue strategic report on pages 18 to 25. to evolve our risk framework so that it remains appropriate and relevant for all our businesses.
Kathryn Matthews Chairman of the group risk committee 22 February 2017 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 81 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 81
