Governance Corporate governance report In relation to the board, David Harrel, our senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee, reached the ninth anniversary of his appointment in December 2016 and, as a result, will not be seeking re-election at the 2017 AGM.
I would like to thank David for his significant contribution and counsel to the board and me over the last nine years.
The board was strongly of the view that it was appropriate and in the best interests of the company that David Harrel should remain as chairman of the remuneration committee until the AGM in May 2017 when the remuneration report is voted upon by shareholders.
Subject to regulatory consent, Sarah Gentleman will become chairman of the remuneration committee following the AGM.
I am pleased to also announce the appointment of Jim Pettigrew as a non-executive director, subject to regulatory approval.
Jim has considerable experience as both an executive and a non-executive director in the financial services sector.
This experience will be of You will find commentaries in this annual report from me great benefit to the board and I look forward to working with him.
and other committee chairmen on important aspects of the firms governance.
In between board meetings, I maintain frequent contact with the executive team and, in particular, the chief executive who keeps The boards primary focus is on ensuring that the business me advised of progress and key developments.
Philip and I also prospers for the benefit of our shareholders and other discuss how to bring issues to the board in the most effective stakeholders.
The best way to achieve this goal is through way.
I maintain regular contact with David Harrel, our senior good governance and good risk management across the firm.
independent director, and discuss with him my thinking on In addition, our long-established, client-focused service ensures significant board issues.
I also have frequent dialogue with my that client interests and needs are central to the firms culture.
other non-executive colleagues to ensure that any areas of The board had six board meetings during the year and met concern are aired.
informally on a number of occasions.
Prior to each board meeting, During the year, we undertook an annual board effectiveness the board received written reports on the progress of the business review, which we focused in particular on areas where we all agree and key performance indicators, together with detailed updates on we need to improve.
This embraced the way we work together, the progress, and implementation, of agreed strategic initiatives.
the focus of the board agenda, including the quality of the board Immediately before each board meeting I met separately with the papers and succession planning.
non-executive directors to discuss any significant matters arising from these reports and the focus of any challenges.
Each board Finally, Rathbones takes the recommendations of the UK meeting is attended for relevant items by one or more members of Corporate Governance Code seriously and we have been the executive committee so that they can address their areas of compliant with it throughout the year.
In relation to Lord Davies responsibility in more depth.
In addition, in October the board recommendation on board diversity, we currently have two arranged a strategy day, attended by all members of the executive female directors on our board, which represents 29% of our total committee, to discuss and review the firms culture and the board membership.
We are aware of the importance of having progress of certain strategic initiatives.
gender diversity on the board and consideration will be given to it during the recruitment process in order to achieve the 33% female As a board, we fully support the increasing focus on culture by our representation target.
The success of internal executive succession regulators.
In March 2016, the Senior Managers and Certification planning is highly reliant on the management of talent within the Regime came into force.
This, inter alia, sets out the responsibility organisation, something the board also takes very seriously.
In of the board, and in particular of the chairman and chief executive, addition, the company is taking steps to ensure that there are no for leading the development of the firms culture and embedding it barriers to women succeeding at the highest levels.
The chief executive and I decided that the appropriate first step was to initiate a review of our culture.
The findings were presented and discussed at length with both the full Mark Nicholls board and the executive committee.
It was agreed that a number Chairman of metrics illustrating our cultural development would be developed and monitored by the conduct risk committee who 22 February 2017 would report quarterly to the board.
It was also recognised that an overview of the development of our culture would be maintained by the non-executive directors through formal and informal engagement with employees throughout the business.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 53 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 53
